 Hi, everybody, everybody, welcome to it's just bodybuilding, I'm your host, big Ron partlow, of course with Dusty Hanshaw, and the producer Scott McNally, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell, I gotta get out of the way for those, and remember, I am mutant.com, mutant nation.com, either one works, get your hardcore ISO, get your mind, FK, get your big greens, and of course, everyone should be on the gear, so get your essential amino acids, go to the website, I am mutant.com, go to the website, I am mutant.com, get your mind, FK, get your big greens, and of course, everyone should be on the gear, so get your essential amino acids, go to the website, I am mutant, a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot of a lot We got, it looks like Clarita just cleaned up two shows. Is that what we're starting with? Absolutely. What a beast. Who else, like, why didn't other people go to these shows? Why is Sean doing all the work? Why is Sean doing the heavy lifting? This is awesome. Because Sean is a bodybuilder. Yeah. And he wants to do what he does. Yeah. Yeah. I love seeing. It kind of reminds me, Ron, of like when I first got into bodybuilding. It was that late 90s, early 2000s where like people after the Olympia just kept going. The Grand Prixs. Yeah. Oh, I see. You're on through all those shows. And a lot of people don't realize like most of us, they don't come home. They go from one show on a Saturday, a show the next week on a Wednesday, a show the next week. And they're just rolling through. And Sean's doing that only he's going to Japan, going home, going to China, going home. Yeah. Yeah. I figure he just, he either loves bodybuilding or he hates Texas winters. I also say like, you know, I know he just hooked up, but we were talking before the show, you know, him and him and Jewett hooked up before the Olympia there. And this was great work by them as a team, like obviously handling the travel with no problems. Sean showing up looking fantastic at both of these wins. And remember the Japan one was an open win, right? Yeah. So he's bagged a whole bunch of stuff in the last two weeks. You know, he's got an open Olympia qualification and a 212 obviously win in China. But the look he had was fantastic. He's, he's one of the best bodybuilders on the planet without a doubt. Yeah. Yeah. And, and that said to, you know, going into the Olympia or, or after the Olympia, I had said, I was like, well, you know, they did a great job. Him and John did a great job. But I, and I had said, I was like, I don't know if I give John full credit for this. Right. Because I don't feel like he, yeah. You know, he, he jumped in in the last, whatever it was that toward the end that said, like that's over. You know what I mean? Like they're now repeatedly demonstrating that they're a great team together. So I, I, my hat goes off to both of them. My hat goes off to John, the work that he's doing with Sean. My hat goes off to Sean. They're, they're doing a fantastic job. And, and it leads me to a question too. So if he won a 212 show, he won an open show, he's qualified for both. Do you feel like, are we in a, are we in a time where you think that if he put pressure and we all got behind it as fans, do you think that he could be the guy that they would let do both? Cause I know he wants to do both. Yeah. Cause they've said no before, haven't they? They have. Yeah. And I mean, it comes down to the scheduling thing. I think is what the problem is. Like the 212 finals are what the Friday evening usually is not how it works. And then the prejudging and he would just have to do both. Yeah. He just, I mean, just think of all the people that think of the, the chicks that do figure and bikini, they got to change suits. They got to like, you know, at the local level, like it could be done. Oh yeah. He doesn't even have to change his trunks. You know what I mean? It's not like it's a different, he doesn't have to do anything. He just kind of goes around and comes back out with the open guys. I mean, I think that they're saying no. Do you think they just don't want to kind of like break how it's been? They're like, Oh, that's going to be something. We don't know how that's going to, is that going to cause a bunch of this? Like, is that kind of what they're doing with the no that they've said before? Because the fans are going to, if the fans demanded enough, if we got behind it enough, I feel like we could put like all of us, we could put pressure. All three of us. No, maybe more than just the three of us. But yeah, as a community, as bodybuilding fans, like we could make this possibly happen. I think it would be great if, I mean, there's a lot of guys that could do it, obviously. You know, I mean, obviously Keon can do an open show, you know, and he hasn't won an open show, but he could do an open show and win it. I mean, he could have gone on the plane too and gone and competed, but like Sean has qualified multiple times. And I think that he should be the first guy. It's, it's suiting. It's fitting. He's a 212 Mr. Olympia twice. He's the smallest guy in quotes, right? Frame wise. It's the most dramatic. It would just be the best. It's if one guy's going to do it, I want it to be Clarita because it's the most insane. Yeah. And not to mention he's literally, literally earned it. Yes. Multiple times. Yeah. You know who's fighting against this? Like he's beat. He's beat top 10 Olympians. It's getting fought by the guys in the top 10 Olympia. They don't want to fall out. Well, I mean, well, I mean, well, just take like technically he beat Regan. He beat a really good Regan at that one open show. Right. He beat a really good Sergio. Right. So if, if I was, you know, I'm obviously, I'm not putting words in those guys mouth, but if I was like, if I'm Regan getting ready for the O, I don't necessarily want Clarita there. Right. You're already worried about Andrew Jack and fucking Derek and like, you know what I mean? You're already worried about all these other guys, you know, you got Jordan Hutchinson coming up the back and you got like, and then someone's like, Oh, Clarita's hopping in. You're like, Oh fuck. Like, yeah. It's the last thing you need. There's like, there's like, you know, 10 guys that are going to be like, ah, you know, I just, I don't know. But I love the disruption. I love a little bit of disruption. Sure. I think the Olympia needs it. Like we, you need, remember when they tried to do like the whole wrestling thing during the, during the live pay-per-view and all that to like back when Triple H was hosting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Obviously we all know that was pretty lame, but this is actual drama where you're like, okay, well, here's the guy who's qualified for both. I just, I don't understand why you would say no, because I have to assume if you qualified in bikini and in, I don't know, women's physique, how would they, they tell you you have to pick? Obviously I chose two that wouldn't be possible. Don't worry about it. Right. Um, you know, so I just, I don't see the downside at all. He's already there. So I, I think that I think there's a good chance to let him do it. And I know if they let him, he's doing it. Oh, he totally would. Sean doesn't need to rest. Look at him. He's been traveling the world here. He's, you know, 42 years old and looking like he's 25. Oh, think about the excitement that would bring to the show too. Like that would be a storyline. People would want to know how does he place? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. He plays. He plays. I mean, he's going to beat a bunch of guys. Top 10 for sure. He's going to beat half the field at least. I don't know. I'm just throwing that out there. Is it half the field? Like, you know, average, how many guys, 20 guys show up? I just want to see a front double between him and Andrew Jack. Yeah. Wouldn't that be great? Oh man. You know? And then also too, like, yeah, yeah, it would be cool. It'd be cool. It would be cool also. I still remember seeing him next to Rami at the Arnold. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was incredible, man. That's all. It's like that photo I remember from when I was young of Flavio Baccanini standing next to Lou Ferrigno at the 93. Yeah. Where Lou's patting him on the head. It's a classic. Four foot 11, man. I saw that. Was it when Kai was in his prime, he did a guest posing and the overall winner came out with him. Oh, yeah. From the, it was like an amateur. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And it was so funny because, I mean, it just really drove to light what he looked like because he's standing next to a great bodybuilder. Yeah, guy won the whole street. Look good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and if you cover up Kai, you're like, oh, that guy looks good. And then you let go of Kai and you're like, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Yeah. The only difference here is no one's doing that to Clarita. No. That's what's crazy about his physique is as much as I joke about it, I'm actually only talking about height. Yeah. Because he can stand with anyone in the world. Yeah. He's not getting outclassed. I'm not saying he's going to win, but he's not being outclassed as a bodybuilder by anyone. Also, too, like, I know it doesn't count for anything. And it's just me and what I love. I love the freak side of bodybuilding. And I love the guys that are the outliers, you know. But whenever Sean shows up at the booth, I just have to take a second to just watch him walk around because he is so, so densely packed and so square in his shirt and so crazy looking. And then you see how small his frame is in relation to, like, all the people around him. And it makes it more, like, holy shit. Like, you know, I go, like, I'm wearing a double XT, you know, and my, you know, my arms look pretty good in it, right? And I'm like, what size is that? And he's like, 4X. And it's just, like, fills it completely. Yeah. And I'm like, oh, Jesus. Not only side to side, but, like.  He's a 4X and it's like full. He's so big and I remember this when Mutant had me come out to a Fibo and it was him and Drea and Drea and I were like walking around the city. We're like walking around the city. We're outside a body building. We're like outside a body building. We're like, if you're in a gym and you see a guy like that and Sean. Drea and Sean. You know, you know, you know. You know. You know. I know. It's like what kind of weird world am I in. You know what I'm saying? Eating pretzels. Yeah. So here's a thing. a gym right you see a guy like that you're like oh that dude's jack you get out into the real world and like it doesn't quite compute he just looks like a like it doesn't look right you know what i'm saying he's just like is he really obese or something like you know what i mean you can't tell you don't know what's going on under that shirt it's a it's the weirdest thing and also too he has a legitimate he legitimately has one of the most and i mean this is like a compliment one of the most bodybuilder walks oh yeah he has to he's walking around his legs yeah like he his legs do the full half circle swing they really do and and the arms kind of do like the full but it's not like you know how we see guys at ils that wish they walked like that yeah yeah he just is so packed like he has more trouble he has more mobility issues than a lot of the huge guys because he's actually got more muscle per square inch yeah yeah so tiny joints you know literally his frame he's got a tiny joint frame it's not like he's you know it's a densely packed muscle oh i remember one time um like his watch didn't even like touch what what do you mean well like if he takes his watch off and you go to put it on it'll just fall off your like you can't even put it on like you can't even touch the ends and he's got it like you know because he's his his wrist is like joints are so small yeah oh i see you know like you see what hole his watch is on you're like it's not like the last hole you know what i mean so it's just like uh it's a crazy illusion and people who have not seen him don't get it like yeah it's i know that he's like you know five was he five two two yeah and i mean you know i mean i remember lee priest at five four and it's just a little further than that it's like crazy but two inches matter i've heard that a lot right i keep hearing that from my wife too which i'll always short them yeah yeah yeah yeah so anyways props to sean that's the point to the beginning of the show here we're just really excited and we think he's kicking ass and obviously you know we're happy for you know him out there represent mutant too we're very like like very proud of him as a member of the mutant team and all that but even just as bodybuilding fans regardless of of who his sponsor is we uh we just think he's just one of the craziest things in bodybuilding right now and i just love seeing him out there fucking mopping the floor up with with wins you know i think he'd compete on christmas day if there was a show he would he would man oh christmas day show oh sure where in turkey i'll be there thank you i'm in yeah nice christmas gift yeah yeah yeah and go collect you know what would it be would it be like a 10 20 grand show you know what i mean one of those yeah yeah so okay now what what's next your hip yes your hip is next gentlemen i had a hell of a weekend i dropped some cash spent some money told the wife she's got to wait for the new car next year because i needed some new wheels this year yeah yeah um i just got back from montreal with my new hip i had a full hip replacement done on friday morning um i went private because uh canadian healthcare system is uh not great for this stuff um the weight is you know i've been waiting over a year on the list i've been two and a half years in pain you guys have heard all the bitching i'm not going to go into it but um the last year i've been on like the surgery weight and nothing and they're telling me we have no idea how long it's going to be so i've i went private flew to montreal got a great doctor mike van wick hooked me up with dr rodriguez out there at pathway surgery fantastic totally professional operation out there treated us amazingly well we had a limo service pick us up at the airport take us to this beautiful old hotel in montreal that's super famous um lamont uh steven was the name of it beautiful like you know old woodwork look like it's 200 years old inside it look like you know what i mean one of those kind of landmark buildings stayed there um they had limo service take me to the clinic they treat you amazingly well you know private health care is a lot different than public and uh uh had the surgery i i can't believe the result i'm blown away um my old hip pain is completely gone because my old hip is gone like there's nothing you know like everything that hurt was removed so there's nothing left that hurts like i don't have a labrum anymore i don't have a hip bone i don't have did you get to keep it by the way no i asked and they were like i don't actually think we can let you because it's like human remains it's like rude your remains you tried i tried i asked i know some people have got their hip bones before i think dorian has his hip bone but he went like out of country i think it wasn't in canada they let you do that yeah yeah that's a turkey they actually give you they give you in a doggy bag and you just leave in mexico they just give you someone else's hip bone yeah tell you it's yours you can't have yours but we'll get you one it's a lot like the one you had um yeah so um so yeah it was uh it was amazing and i got the nfl hip you know um and that's another thing he told me he said you know if you go with the government hip um you'll get a good hip but if you go with me you get the best one like you know you want the best one you get the best one so that was what i wanted and uh unbelievable the the result so obviously i'm sore and i'm like you know being very careful because i've got this purple you know i'm stitches in my leg and i'm all bruised and you know that sort of stuff and it's swollen so like you know sitting down it's like you know it's like so i'm not like out of the woods obviously and i gotta wait several weeks for the bone to heal around the implant so i'm really solid but the very next morning he came to see me and he said okay you have zero range of motion restrictions wow zero as of today i was happy zero except for pain that's your restriction okay so and that's because the swelling and the hematoma and the bruising like you know i laid on my side last night for a while so some of the bruising like ran into my balls oh you know so you know you wake up and you're like oh my balls are purple but they're okay they're just they look purple you know and there's like a stripe down the side of my cock you know i'm like oh you know but but you know you just you know it's just bruising and i've been through this before right because i tore the quad and the whole leg was black the foot was my foot was black when i tore my quad right so yeah i know and and then also to um the night after like i had the surgery and for the next the rest of the day and into the night i i was bleeding i wasn't my bleeding didn't stop they did change my dressing a few times and the one the one nurse was a little like she was like oh we gotta get this bleeding to stop but um then when he came by he was like oh these big guys have so many he's like this guy was so vascular yeah he he said like he he's he's just a got a lot of vascular damage from going in there because he was really vascular you're gonna be okay don't worry about it and i was like oh okay but it was funny that he said that like because she's the nurse so she's just thinking like man i haven't had to change anyone else's dressing right yeah yeah you know dude and that reminds me because i've heard of this before that when we grow muscle we're not just growing muscle we're growing that vascular system that supports it exactly yeah yeah yeah so like muscle tissue is a lot of stuff going on yeah and even though they didn't cut through any muscle because they went through the anterior so they went kind of the oh like upper outside of my leg and then what they do is they hook the the rectus femoris and they pull it to the side okay and they hook the outside quad and they pull that to the side damn and they go in there with a robot to drill out your so it's perfectly drilled out matching the contour of the new cup right so it's a perfect robotic matching of the cup and then you know they stick the spike down into your femur with the new head on it and put it up in there and then they let everything go so they don't cut any muscle but just think of all the other all this all the fascia tissue and all the blood vessels crisscrossing around everything like it's not like you just go like that no you got to cut through a bunch of shit and you know so there's a lot of damage in there even though they didn't cut any muscle so um so you know it'll heal quick though um that's wild but yeah the bruising pretty crazy um you know but it's just to to stand up like the first time i stood up you know i had the walker in front of me and the nurse came over and was like okay let's let's give it a try and i swung went to swing my legs over and obviously the one leg feels really fucking weak because it's you know like i don't i'm like almost afraid to use it because i have had so much pain that i'm hesitant to try to move it you know yeah and um but i you know got my feet on the floor and i stood up and i stood up straight and my hips came underneath me and i stood up straight and i was like holy shit like i haven't stood up straight for two and a half years i've been standing that i just feel good man yeah because i stand up and then i kind of put my hands on the table and i kind of take a minute to like yeah and then i even then i can't quite get my hip underneath me i still got to kind of you know i just it's been it's been crazy i'm like relearning that i can just stand up yeah really weird and then you know she said when i checked in she goes where's your walker and i said oh my my buddy told me i wouldn't need it she goes  I was a walker, and I was like, oh, fuck, so I sent Emily down the hallway, because it was in a mall, and there was like a medical supply store right next door, so she went and bought me a walker for 100 bucks, and I used it the day I checked out, to like walk up and down the hallway, and then leave, you know, went and got in the car, and, but after that, I was like, I think I'm good with just a cane, so I ordered a cane on DoorDash for like 25 bucks, for like 25 bucks, I got a cheap aluminum cane for 25 bucks, I got a cheap aluminum cane for 25 bucks, and I used that, A come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come come! come come come went through security and there's like the the scanner and then the x-ray right yeah right and they're kind of like just using both because they got lots of people and i went through the x-ray and i told him oh you know it beeped and he's like you know and i told him i had a hip and he goes oh you should have gone through the other one because then they'll just see it you know and don't waste the time over here so next time use that one and blah blah blah but yeah it was my first time going through airport and setting it off and uh yeah getting the beeps beep beep beep there it is well for anyone who's concerned about a better part of the story i made sure to text ron when i knew he was high as a kite we can't get into the details but ron is a lot of fun when he's high what was i saying well i i was like i'm gonna tell ron a few days to read this i text him i'm like how you doing buddy he goes i'm good everything feels fine he goes my i can't feel my legs which is no good he goes but i'm really concerned because none of the nurses seem to care that i can't feel my dick and then like a few minutes goes by he goes i've asked again and no one seems to be worried at all but i'm really starting to struggle here with the fact that i can't feel anything again so when when i had my quad surgery they put me out they tried two epidurals and nothing took i was still moving my legs and they were like oh shit we can't get in there because i was really big right 300 plus yeah so they just put me out but this time they gave me the epidural and then sedated me instead of putting me out i only remember getting the shot like i remember her the the kind of like sting of her shooting my spine yeah and then the next thing i know i wake up and it's done and they're giving me some pills and they're giving me some water and uh then the anesthesiologist comes by she was cool she comes by sticks her head and she goes how are you doing and i go good and i go i don't i thought i was going to remember more because you guys said i was just going to be sedated right like oh you were talking up a storm and i go oh no what was i saying and she goes oh you were telling us all about how you opened the gym with no money and you guys started a business and you didn't really know what you were doing you just wanted a place to work out and you opened a gym and and then you're just telling how like you know you're saying like oh i'm gonna have to do some instagram about this afterwards and like just just crazy just so funny there's no filter it sounds like ron i was like oh god and then i'm and then i go what else did i say and she goes oh you you i put you back asleep after a while so but i did say to that i do remember because you know your filters you're coming out of surgery you're just i do remember being numb like from the waist down and not being able to move anything and i remember the first thing i said was i like i was like my fucking dick's numb and the nurse was like that'll wear off and i was like this is not good no you don't understand you can go back and read you got to go back and read our text the legs the legs the legs are the legs are one thing but i'm gonna need the dick i'm so excited for you to read those texts today yeah and then the surgeon when he came back and i said how'd it go he goes good he goes you were fun to work on i was like oh god oh god ron will be remembered forever yeah i guess i'm a character in surgery took 45 minutes 45 minutes wow that's fast man considering everything they did yeah yeah yeah it's good and then you know if i got messages like mike van wick like you know messaged me and then i i talked to roman a bit he was like oh man you're gonna be squatting 405 in four weeks maybe i think we might have said six weeks but i was like hold on roman he's making slow bud you know what i mean it was uh you of course roman would say 405 right yeah i know not just the plate right not squatting squatting 405 so yeah i just have to you know i don't have any range range limits so as soon as the pain from the swelling and stuff goes away i can body weight squat and body weight lunge and just like move around and i gotta wait six eight weeks for the bone to heal but that's that's it okay yeah awesome all right guys good show see you yeah yeah that's my that's my story that was my surgery you know unbelievable it was it was a great day i loved it thank you yeah you know i have i go back and read that thread you're gonna like that yeah there's a lot going on buddy i'm showing nikki the whole time she's dying now i'm wondering now i'm wondering what what i said oh the nurse's outfit oh oh yeah dusty sent me a picture of some nurses and he he was complaining because he goes the nurses don't look like the nurses that i've seen you post before yeah i said i'm a little short on your nurses yeah he wanted to open a business he goes what do you think you want to invest i want to open a business with those kind of nurses i said can you please tell nikki that i'm very disappointed in my nurses yeah i was having a blast i was like he's so high this is like talking to me oh my god do we do we have to do this ourselves buddy let's start looking for investors i was having a good time oh it was great i think i need my blood pressure checked again and my dick is still numb so i'm gonna need someone to take a look at that oh my goodness the best part scott is he goes i'm starting to get some tingling but i don't know if that's from the picture you sent me oh yeah i text scott i'm like scott i'm having so much fun right now we're on time i'm texting him god yeah but now i'm worried how many other people were i messaging with that i don't remember i gotta go back and yeah you look at your phone through my instagram all friday texts yeah i only i i only had um when i wake up from you know you wake up from surgery and they give you some pills right okay so you wake up and you take the pills and then i'm like and then i said to her i go i don't want any any opiates and she goes well you just had a dilaudid which you need okay came out of surgery you'll be good she goes but that's all that's all you that's all we give you they did give me a prescription for tramadol but i i threw it away because i'm not going to use it um okay i'm just using the the anti-inflammatory and the and the tylenol like i did with my quad but but yeah i said okay i don't want any more and she goes oh you just just the one is all you'll need you'll be fine so it was good i i only i wasn't like drugged out of my mind for two days or anything like that i'd like to give him one at the olympia before the team dinner i don't think you get the same result but yeah a lot of fun that was great that was great so anyways yeah that's my excitement and uh kind of blown away you know it's really crazy to have someone go into your body and replace something that deep inside you okay and then you can get up and walk around the next day you just doesn't you know you're just thinking this should be yeah it doesn't make sense you know what i mean that's not how it was five years ago i can promise you you know that because you know like you know everyone else you know 10 15 years ago everyone's getting cut through the glute right yeah so they're like you know it's a bit of a rehab you cut through a muscle so i'm really really lucky yes yeah what's next on the on the the menu for us boys we had some questions come in when we were talking about sean uh fighting father time asked us he said is there such a thing as over competing from both uh health and bringing your best stage perspective um and does the same apply to lower levels of bodybuilding well i mean here's where dusty and i and you will say the stuff that some people go they're lying yeah but when you see a guy like sean working with a guy like john they have longevity in mind they have they're not kamikaze do they're not you know blasting these shows these are this is a veteran guy who's able to get the most out of the least obviously he's at that level but this is a lot more i think a guy like clarita working with a guy like john is a lot more uh what's the word that's sustainable you  Yeah, yeah, I think Sean knows like, is he 42? Dusty, I can't remember. Yeah, I think he's 42, yeah. So, I mean, like, obviously, you know, he's, you know, he's, you know, nearing the end of his competing days, and he probably knows that. Yeah, Max, eight more years. Yeah, I mean, what are you going to do until he's 50? But, but, but, I think he's just getting the most out of it. I mean, he, he, he, he understands that this is, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I think, I mean, I think he doesn't share a share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share share is isn't something that happened overnight this dude has been competing since forever he was a bodybuilder since he was i don't know if he was a welterweight or what he was all bantamweight thank you okay so bantamweight bodybuilder natural competitor over years and decades in time years and years in so many sets you know he's built his physique up to where it is today he's not the kind of guy that did this in five years by pushing things real hard and those guys are out there don't get me wrong we have people that comment and say well this particular pro said that he's running this this and that and i'll tell you what i know of one of those guys who's now saying like you know what i've been really trying i did really good at one one show one year but now i've been really hammering the gear and things just aren't working i have to rethink this i'm going to back off for a so somebody who shows up does really good for a minute and now it's like well where is he going to be in five years because he can't sustain that but what sean had done is something he's been sustaining since the start it's just been getting better and better yeah so yeah it makes it it's no surprise to me that somebody who runs it like that or a guy like dexter jackson like very similar story you know what i mean bantamweight yeah who who has slowly built this over time there is no quick finish you know or maybe lightweight dexter might have just been a lightweight but whatever is that what it was yeah point i think i thought it was a band or he might have been a band about his first show but you know but a lot taller too he's taller you know a bigger guy yeah but yeah same story you know and that also like it's the the natty foundation like it does yeah the guys that have that long crazy natty foundation the jose raymonds the the guys like this they're able to they're able to do that they're able to last longer uh at the end of the day their shelf life is longer because they you know they have less wear and tear on what it took to build the foundation of their physique so you know i think you also just have to factor in one of the hardest things to do uh as someone who's coming up and trying to emulate is you have to understand that sean clarita is not human yeah like you know and none of these guys are like you you can't do what they do necessarily so the key is for for you when you're asking yourself that question is how does your mind feel when you're getting ready for one more show how does your body feel do you have aches and pains like i'm not going to put words in sean's mouth but i would bet they didn't set out at the beginning of 2025 and say we're doing all of these shows they did a show it went well he said i feel great let's keep going let's do another one they hit another show they talked about it it went well he said man i still feel great body feels good everything's clicking along john's looking at his blood work and how his body's responding everything he says all right screw it let's do one more they hit it and i'm sure that they've already had a plan for how they were going to exit this show and get ready for the next one right yeah right yeah check this out yeah go ahead 118 pounds novice class that was that was sean clarita's first show and that was at the natural mid-atlantic and then dexter jackson got third place as a lightweight yeah uh wait hold on a second 1990 jacksonville physique show he competed as a bantamweight at 137 pounds there you go actually won the overall title what 137 pound overall winner so dexter was saying so dexter dexter legitimately gained 100 pounds of tissue as mr olympia because he was about 230 something as a mr olympia that's wild and like people say they put on 100 pounds but they're also teenagers at the time like me right yeah like i put on 100 pounds in high school yeah but i probably would have put on 50 anyways right right you know just growing so you get a guy like dexter who put on 100 pounds and it's like it's 100 pounds like have you seen 100 pounds of steak on a table yeah yeah holy fuck no i didn't turn out like i didn't turn out like dexter but i was 125 oh it's pretty similar in my late 20s like that's late 20s i wasn't a teenager he's tanner than you yeah yeah i can't that's how i started yeah yeah it's a strawberry it's a strawberry yeah yeah yeah oh there was one other topic i wanted to throw by you guys so i don't know the exact quote but i guess the the word on the street is that dorian is coming after our mr olympia and to paraphrase he was saying something along the lines of like i don't know if this is the best time in bodybuilding like i don't know if if the you know derrick is the best olympia that we've ever had like for god's sakes he's built like a refrigerator he's five four five five it was something along those lines sounds about dorian yeah dorian's words not mine right so what do we think of dorian's words is that what you're saying yeah what did you guys think of that and then i guess that uh i guess that derrick did fire back um what did i wrote it down here actually um he basically said uh dorian was great he was great for his time but that was the past and that this is the new era and that this is in fact the greatest moment in bodybuilding hmm well i mean it's hard for me to say it's the greatest time in bodybuilding because there'd be multiple factors for that not just this look not just that like what's on stage right just to me to say you know the greatest time in bodybuilding is more than just there's more than just who's on stage do you know what i mean okay um if you were going to say the level of competition and the actual people showing up and then you're going to discuss that i think it's a different topic but that's just how i feel when i hear those words um the thing i will say about dorian's comment is i get that like the physiques are are are so probably so different in their their the way they flow and stuff to dorian they probably look boxy i'm sure dorian probably thinks they look you know what did he say like a refrigerator something like that i mean they're they're they're everyone stands different now they stand really really crazy you know with yeah i know that a lot of people have been criticizing how like exaggerated the front relaxed is and also too i've i come on record saying i'm not a fan of derrick's front relaxed because i think his arms are out way too much but that's just how i like it or how i don't like it but um i i i definitely think that we're in a the most maybe the most competitive era because there could be like five different mr olympias at every show whereas it didn't used to be that way so i do think technically it's it's closer now do you know what i mean like you don't know who's going to win which makes it great in a way um i think dorian his era had a magic about it and a mystery about it that is impossible to recreate now because we know too much and we have too much access and we all know these guys everyone knows one of these guys you know what i mean yeah like oh i met derrick at an expo or i you know met andrew jacked at the gym or i like there's so much more connection than back when dorian was mr olympia that that magic will never be recaptured so that's something that is is sort of when i hear dorian say like this is not the best time in bodybuilding that's what i agree with is like that part of it but i think it's more competitive now in a way um you know like we we sort of we sort of assumed mr olympia would repeat all those years and don't get me wrong we had flex and kevin and sean um but we didn't really think they were going to win right um i didn't i didn't at least think they were going to win and then once ronnie showed up we was kind of kind of had seven years off wondering what was going to happen yeah right and um so i don't know this is i'll tell you this much sitting at this year's olympia i was very excited and i did not know who was going to win and that's a great feeling because i've been to so many mr olympias where you you know who's going to win like you're that's something on friday it's over yeah yeah you're like yeah you know and and that's that's an awesome thing like especially someone who's been around as long as i have to be like excited about the night show right yeah that's cool  That says something, man, man, you know, you know, there is something about that I agree, Ron, because, and I know this is going to piss off some people listening, but I've skipped going to finals at the Olympia before, because I went to pre-judging, right, man, I've been to a ton of shows, right, man, I've been to a ton of shows, like Phil's got it, when, and that's kind of the end of it. Yeah. Um, I think, and I didn't, I didn't, I hate quotes and things like that because I don't like not knowing the context it was set in, you know, um, because the way, I think I went to a lot of opponents I went to a lot of opponents went to a lot of opponents went to a lot of opponents went to a lot of opponents went to a lot of opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went to a lot opponents went happen um right you know so the game has changed yeah and and i think the game of bodybuilding has changed you know it's a good point back when i started going was ronnie's reign and i'll be honest i went to the olympian my thought was i wonder what ronnie will look like not whether or not he was going to win it was a different time freaky it was going to be yeah like you said ron i mean i like the fact that we're sitting in the audience ron and i have been to a hundred of these things and we're like asking each other genuinely who do you have whereas if we were sitting at the o3 olympia i'm not going to actually ask ron who he's gotten first i might ask who he has in fifth um right yeah yeah so i think all the errors are awesome um but when i look the only part which we have no control over is we were given such a treat with the mr olympia for a few years that it was only a matter of time where the best of the best was isn't as good the singular best meaning the mr olympia wasn't as good as the old one right i mean when you look it's like who have you seen since phil at his best could beat phil and the answer is no one yeah i i had this discussion with someone the other day they said how do you think a 2013 phil heath would do in the last six olympias and i said he'd win all of them yeah every one of them he'd be a winner of those olympia would say that yeah he would have beat every single winner i don't that's just how i feel 2013 2014 phil wins every olympia since he retired yeah let me ask you guys this just out of curiosity how about a 2012 kai green top three top three i would love to see that that would be fun he still would be cool i taught a 2013 kai green is still gonna beat almost everyone except for maybe like we're like he's in there with hottie and derrick and yeah and those guys getting compared he's not in the six seven eight nine yeah no god no no yeah that's the that's that that that physique you know really a cartoon uh kai green is this is almost a separate little era of bodybuilding for me for real yeah you know he didn't win an olympia but what a absolutely nutty looking crazy looking physique with the craziest shape on some of his muscles i sort of used to describe phil as round and kai green as having like some triangle muscles on him yeah yeah yeah yeah like he had more corners kai green had more corners and phil eath had more basketballs right yeah and planets yeah and i just sort of thought that's why phil beat him was he just had that roundness that kai had more of like the you know his biceps were almost like like mountains and the triceps were like you know peaked and like he looked really cool he had like a bit of AI don't know like you know that earth that's all geometric he's like an alien he looked like the remember the like the predator he had like yeah he did look like the predator he did it wasn't just the hair like yeah i don't know the whole thing it was like all of it standing that way and yeah he really did yeah he leaned into it yeah he leaned he did in the best way yeah i think that that's the fun part though is when you're looking at this and in answering that question is there are guys that i say you know for example a lavroni at his best you're like i think he could probably win now like i i think the only reason some of those guys couldn't win was because of the fact that no one wondered who was going to win like you remove dorian and i think you have multiple guys win the olympia over those six years yep you got you move you remove ronnie you get multiple guys winning those shows over those years yep yeah and i feel like some of the top guys like a dorian what he's really talking about is i'm better than derrick right i don't think he's saying that the the the olympia is last because if he is i disagree right you know and that's what that's i think what makes it great that these guys don't get is as a fan i prefer not knowing you know i mean when ronnie finally lost it was almost a shock even though you knew he should you were just like holy shit and everyone including jay will say jay didn't beat the best ronnie he beat the ronnie that started to slide down yeah and jay talks about that all the time yeah you know he felt bad about winning that oh which is like very interesting it says a lot about jay too man we were we were actually talking about that ron over the weekend i was i was telling nicky about um how at the olympia because ronnie was winning so consistently scott that they actually told him backstage before they announced it yeah they wanted him to know they didn't want him to be like shocked so when he's on stage he actually looks at jay before they announced and goes you got me you beat you you can read his lips and uh standing sideways the coolest thing is is that jay being jay literally says on the spot before it's announced uh i'm the best today you're the best of all time yeah and i'm like that is such a jay thing in that moment to be like yeah but only today yeah that's pretty cool that is really cool so but yeah i think it's you know i i do wish that this whole like era thing would go away because i've been a fan of all of it and i look for i mean i'm already looking forward to the arnold we got our we got our tickets yeah we got our flights yeah flights booked i'm ecstatic for this to go down i'm not saying oh it's not as good as when phil and kai were there like doesn't even cross your mind and i think if it does uh maybe you should start watching a different sport i'm already seeing content come out of like arnold predictions and stuff like that so we're we haven't done any of that yet we'll get i think give it a little time to simmer you know what i'm saying get a little just a little bit closer anyways oh yeah like we still we still want to weigh in but yeah i'm already seeing that so there's some excitement already building i think for the arnold and we're not even in 2036 yet badly i can be wrong on my predictions yeah is that is that what is that what the desire is i think that's what most people are watching for is just how far off we can be because it will be off right now they're they're putting it as like a hottie versus uh andrew jack type thing which is a really cool uh matchup you know what i'm saying i'd love to see those two guys in columbus and that's that's what i'm seeing though i'm seeing the hottie versus andrew jack lineup that's that's the two people yeah i think that'd be fun man that'd be fun to see those two you know going head to head i uh i just realized i uh looked for something on my phone i just realized i missed an aceto facetime yesterday oh no and i was at the gym oh if he called both of us i wonder what's going on we missed something fun if he if he what if you should check the time on yours i bet it's one minute before or after my call but i'm doing it just for fun yeah i uh i see this aceto uh facetime here it's facetime too and i'm like oh no 12 my time um so 1 12 your time 1 13 one minute apart look at that 1 13 that's amazing 1 13 no then notice notice notice how i have him loaded in my phone that's amazing you're using the photo too knows nothing about training oh that's funny one minute apart yeah every time he called it chris aceto knows nothing about training that's what it says every time he calls yeah an immediate laugh oh that's good stuff i love it okay we'll have to we'll have to get in contact with him because it was obviously a good one yeah we missed some humor there oh man we've got a question here it's hockey related so that's dusty's wheelhouse and because ron's canadian it's automatically his wheelhouse too obviously it's kind of hockey related all right it's technically training that's all i know great grab the shirt yeah yeah yeah yeah all right great show guys what are your thoughts on german volume for a non-bodybuilding athlete my son is a 14 year old ice hockey player he can train two to three times a week and is on the ice four days a week at 1.5 hours i would say german volume training is probably not the route because  consequence consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence, consequence consequence, consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence consequence three times two to three times a week i would almost do an upper lower split right i would you know what i mean um maybe even a full body like maybe even upper lower full body because then it hits everything twice a week with low low you know recoverable hits right you know the upper could be you know a row a press a shoulder you know like you know what i mean like it's hockey he doesn't have to do bodybuilding movements it's getting strong in all the the different ways he needs to be strong and explosive but i i would almost do that instead of like german volume wouldn't make sense for for that type of training i think no i agree i i am going to uh try to remember to look this up i want to give you the program we used to do when i played and i can't think of the name to save my life what was the split yeah but it was it was very similar it was um it was like an upper lower split but it was also progressive overload so like one day in the gym you don't five sets of five one day you're doing five four three two one one day you're doing three sets of three on all the movements and then it also had things like dot drill work for foot speed and things like that um those are going to be your sweet spots for him because you got to remember and this is something that i've talked to josh storms about too is you need him to be progressing on the ice while he's getting stronger you can't have his strength training negatively impacting his playing either so it's a real balance between the two on recovery um but i will do my best to remember what the hell that was and i'll just comment on this when we actually post the video up but uh yeah we used to do i had a great program and i would train like three days a week and that was all season long even and it was never an issue and i was progressing on all the lifts which definitely turned into the ice work as well but doing the dot drills and the plyo work pays off in spades because at the end of the day you gotta remember as he's getting stronger he needs to not only get remain as explosive but become faster right you want that you want that muscle to do its job and that's why explosive movements are are so valuable you know um but uh the progressive overload also keeps it fun at that age because just like me i'm still 14 years old we need that little scoreboard to keep it going so i'll try to i'll remember what that is i'll reach out to a friend and then i'll just post it on there but uh that would be awesome okay we got one from jeremy i want to throw in he says uh what type of food do you think you would be most successful at in an eating challenge oh like volume yeah like so if we're doing like an eating challenge like all you can eat what hot dogs or you know whatever chicken wings but they have to be grilled not fried you mean yeah because that would wreck me but yeah i could because i could that was my that was the dante secret i don't know if you knew that yeah yeah that was like my rule if i couldn't eat it was time he was like just go order like 36 48 chicken wings come home watch a sporting event and they'll be gone and i so i was a regular at zips if i couldn't eat i would just dry i'd literally call them and like hey it's dusty they're like 36 i'm like yep i'd go pick them up and just sit and watch a hockey game and they're just gone they just disappear i used to be able to eat a liter of ice cream in one sitting okay i've done that many times like an entire liter all at once in the we get it dusty we get it by the gallon don't we yeah or half gallon we have gallon well you know those ben and jerry's pints yeah it's like two of those it's all at once yeah oh okay yeah that's that's not too hardcore nice tanya i like the cookies idea i think i could keep up with you ron on the on the ice cream i might be able to i might be able to match you on that a lot of people can't do the ice cream because they they think they can but then they get like the like the three-quarter of the way through like oh you know yeah that would hit me i couldn't do that i just have to cut all the glps out for a couple weeks you know yeah the opposite of you know peds i'm a horrendous eater to begin with so that's that's one thing that like people would never guess is i never had to eat a lot of food so i don't eat i'm not i've never been AI've never been the guy that ate the most i've you know it's always some person that's not supposed to be that you know what i mean like i remember i remember this girl i bartended with she could eat she was like a hundred pounds she could eat an extra large meat lover's pizza to herself like the whole fucking thing and i remember i remember i would just be like where did it go like it didn't even fit in your belly like where like if you fold it up and wrap make a ball out of it it doesn't go where is it and it didn't make sense you know so i've seen people like that before and they're just you know it's always a skinny dude that wins the hot dog contest you know i did a um you know i did a contest around this place in utah called sensuous sandwich they had a two foot long sandwich and it was huge and it you had 30 minutes to eat it and i got it done in like 26 minutes and i was like i did it you know and i was like what's the record the guy's like a little over three minutes oh god i'm like what like i was forcing it down at 26 and someone ate it in three yeah i watched a girl eat this like 10 pound burger or something like that yeah like 15 minutes to spare at some restaurant and she handled it all on instagram took all the patties off and ate them all one at a time as like this stupid burger yeah and she had like 15 minutes left i was like what the yeah there's a girl i showed nikki there's a girl that does that and it's so funny because she'll be like eating the burger this huge thing and then she'll stop during a contest and be like i'm still a lady and like put on fresh uh lip gloss and then get back to it and i'm like i love you i love you you know who can eat a lot he doesn't brag about it is my friend vj that you guys have met oh yeah he gets smashed you can put some food away we had this era and you guys i'm sure can relate to this it was the era where vj and i were training together at the gym so we'd meet up to train whatever body part three four days a week and at the time there was like two or three other guys that were also kind of in our periphery so we kind of had like our gang you know what i'm talking about and we got into this habit where like one night a week we'd go over to ihop and we'd sit down we didn't do it a lot but we got into it lasted for a little while where we'd go over to ihop and just like smash a bunch of pancakes after we trained and uh i remember sitting there with him and he ate it was all you could eat pancakes they they had you get like three of them and they're very large pancakes i think three of them uh if i recall from being a coach they're like 120 carbs something like that oh so it's like 360 for the pile yeah yeah so you know and with the syrup too you got 550 easy and 200 grams of carbs 12 of them he kept he kept having them bring more he ate like 12 pancakes and uh you know he's just sitting there and we asked well i was like well what what's the record and the lady said well there was one guy who came in here and he ate 13 and i looked at vj and he was like no i'm good and he left it at that did 12 pancakes that means he wasn't even trying he was just eating because if he was trying he would have forced another one down yeah he could have if he had to he could have definitely gone for the 13 and it you know at least i did a video with uh paulo do you remember him the canadian bodybuilder yeah paulo almeida and they um oh yeah yeah they they wanted us to go do this like burger eating challenge and i told them up front i'm like i'm not gonna try to do this like yeah i don't i'm not gonna be uncomfortable today because i wanted to do a challenge so we went and ate and i literally just ate what i wanted and paulo smashed that thing like it was nothing okay he wasn't eating for the challenge either that's just how that kid could eat yeah i mean he put it down like it was nothing and then just kept chatting didn't slow down at all and i was like i understand why you're so big i think if i had to eat something now i love alfredo a good chicken parm yeah chicken parm like a good Christmas fun fact and when we go to that italian restaurant that we sometimes go to at the arnold and they bring out the family style food yeah and the chicken parms are all lined up on that i want the whole plate you've you've done that more than once and i've seen you do that we've gone out to different places i'll go down the table and see if there's any left is there any part we've been in vegas too and you said oh i think i'm gonna get a chicken parm tonight yeah yeah i like that a good chicken parm plate with a nice plate of pasta with a good chicken oh yeah so you're gonna put away a bunch of those is what yeah i could that'd be my thing now i really enjoy a good chicken parm plate yeah okay yeah good choice i like it yeah i could do maybe um cinnamon rolls that's been once again i gotta get off the glps but i've been on the cinnamon roll kick where that's part of my cheat meal each week and i've discovered something if you go to the grocery store they have like a baked good section where they make donuts every day i'll get three donuts and i get these cinnamon rolls they're like the big you know about that big around i'll take it home and i put it in the air fryer for about two minutes okay and it kind of like crystallizes the outside of it and heats the inside up it takes it from  Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah investors. We're growing here. We're growing. This business is going places. I can feel it. I'm getting my hip done there. When I get my hip done, I go to Ronnie Dusty's hip shack. The cool thing is you won't remember what happened because Ron didn't even remember the conversation. My good friend Zach and I, he's a huge Seinfeld fan just like me. I don't know if you remember the dental episode where he woke up and he was untucked. There's a great Seinfeld where he goes into the dentist and he gets put under. Then when he wakes up, he's all fixed but he's untucked. His shirt's untucked. He's like, what the fuck? I was tucked. Right? So now he's like, how did I get untucked? What the fuck? The episode is him wondering what happened to him at the dentist. So the second I woke up from surgery, my buddy texted me. He's like, were you untucked? I got it right away. That's amazing. As soon as I read it, I was just like, ah! Yeah. And Bryan Cranston is the dentist. Oh, that's amazing. Right? Breaking Bad, right? But that's such a great episode. Bryan Cranston's a dentist, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Great episode. Oh, man. That's a classic one. Okay. No suit for you. There you go. Beautiful. Yeah. What's next on the list, boys? I think I had a couple more things over here. See what we had here. Okay. What about this one? Oh, it was an equipment question. Follow up from talking with Evan. What do you guys think of hoist equipment? I think the line that they have that moves, you know, where everything moves, I just think it's unnecessary. As a gym owner, I don't see how it benefits. I see it as pure gimmick. And it's too many moving parts, because I know all about maintenance and breakage. And there's a lot of cables on those machines, which is like, as soon as I see a bunch of cables that don't need to be there, like if you could have done it with fewer cables, I'm like, ah. So I'm not a fan. However, some of them feel great. Yeah. Like, I like the chest press. I like the fly. Oh, yeah. And the fly. And the bicep curl. Like, there's some stuff that feels great. But, so like, I've trained on that equipment and had really good workouts. Like, I remember they had a pull-down at one gym, and it was the only pull-down, and I used it. Yeah, pull-down works. Fucking works. Felt pretty good, actually. Um, but I just, I just worry about like unnecessary gadgets and gimmicks. Um, but I will say like, hoist also makes like squat racks and leg presses, and I mean, all their stuff is fine. I've never seen like a bunch of hoist stuff like that broken or anything like that. It seems, I mean, we got a hoist squat rack at our gym, and it's like, it's going to last a hundred years. It's a big iron, you know. I think it comes down to where the gym is, it's like the golds here has a bunch of the hoist stuff, and I've never seen it broken, but I'm also the only one of me in that gym. Yeah. When I went. Yeah. Yeah. Whereas if you dump that in Ron's gym, it would break. Right. Because there's too many people that are stacking that thing every single day. So, you know, that's the issue that comes into play. I think that's what people forget with equipment is, you got to remember where it is and what you're using it for. I remember when I decided to get my first treadmill, I went to the gym that my buddy owned. I said, hey, will you order me a life fitness treadmill? And he's like, what are you doing with that? I'm like, for the house. And he goes, why do you want that? I want a good treadmill. He's like, Sears, $600. It won't die. How much are you going to use it a day? I'm like, 30 minutes. He's like, you don't need a $3,500 treadmill. Like, he's like, these are used, made to be used 20 hours a day. Yeah. Like a life fitness treadmill is built to do 200,000 miles. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's what I said. He literally was like, I will say. Go to the store and pick up a shitty treadmill. And I did. And I sold it for like 100 less than I bought it for two years later. I will say, though, in the defense of having a life fitness treadmill, I've got like their it's an older one now, but it's like their club version, like the club edition or something. It's like the biggest treadmill they ever made. And I had to. So here's the negative. You take it apart to get it down your stairs? Yeah, I did. I did. I had to pay somebody to bring it down. Two guys, really, to bring it down my stairs. And then I gave them a tip, too. And then put it all back together. But I'm telling you, man, it is nice to have a commercial grade treadmill. That's going to outlive your mini. Oh. It's going to outlive me. It is. Another thing. It's going to be here in 100 years, too, because I'm not moving it out. Whoever buys your house when you sell it is just going to leave it there. Did you have to get a special voltage plug-in for it? Was it one of those? Because the commercial ones quite often have the higher voltage plug-in, right? No. The only thing they said is you have to plug it directly into the wall. You can't plug it into a power strip. Right. Right. Yeah. That was the main concern. Yeah. Okay. That was the main concern that says it has to be straight in the wall. Okay. Yeah. Okay. That's a good one. There's a few more leftovers. I got one. Go ahead. How do you handle a client that wants pro results on hobbyist level of effort? Honestly. Just what do you mean? Yeah. What I mean is it's really simple. Bodybuilding, and we've said this a million times, it's probably one of the most fair sports in the world where if you execute perfectly every day for a month, you're going to see the results of perfect effort. And if you give 70%, that's what you get. And remember, when I say perfect execution, perfect results, that's perfect for your genetics. And that's the big miss. I mean, the majority of us that are trying to get to that next level, that pro level, don't have pro level genetics to begin with. And now you want to put in hobby level effort and think you're going to get the result. I've told people this before, and I know it bothers them, but I do it on purpose. I say that's arrogant. Yeah. So you think you're so good that you can put in 70% effort and beat people who live and die for this every day at the same show. So well said. I also remind people sometimes that, you know, that old saying, you know, hard work beats genetics. I'm like, that's when then the tagline is when genetics doesn't work hard. Yeah. And I just say, that's a nice dream to keep in your head. When you think, oh, I can work hard and I can beat the guys that have the genetics because I work so hard. But in bodybuilding, those guys are working just as hard as you. Like at that, you know what I mean? The higher up you go, the harder the best guys are working. Yeah. You're not going to, like, there's a lot of delusion as to what level guys can get to, I think, because they think, oh, I work really hard. It's like the other guys do too and they're better. So I think people get trapped in that mentality a little bit when they're at a certain level because they think, well, I can get to the next level just through hard work because I train so hard. And it's like a lot of guys are better than you and they train just as hard as you. It's just, it's not as easy as you think. You figure that out though, Ron. You know what I mean? Like you get on stage and you have to, you learn those lessons, man, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is good when you see somebody sort of learn. Like, you know, we've all dealt with clients where you're like, you know, you help them for a show and you could tell they're disappointed because like, you know, maybe they did as good as you could have thought they could do. But they're like, oh, wow, I got my ass kicked by those guys. But it's really good to see the shift. And you're like, do you understand now? Like why I was on you about, you know, getting down to 180. Then you said 190 was, you know, because you get that argument. Oh, I 190. I don't want to be lighter than that. You know, we all hear that, right? It's like, you got it. Next year you won't have to be if you put on 10 more pounds of muscle. Yeah. You know, and you know, all those little kind of arguments you have with certain level bodybuilders that, or whatever body weight they're at, they think they're ready. And you're like, I'm trying to get you to the level you need to be at. Yeah. And you get pushback. You start to get pushback from people when things get really tough. Right. You know, and when that pushback comes, you know, it's usually them thinking like, this is, I look awesome. You know? But other guys look better. At the end of the day with your original question, Ron, the important thing for people to understand is, it is okay to set a goal to, you know, get a pro level physique. Then when you get into it and find out what that takes, determine that it's not worth it to you. You know, I think that that's a big missed thing is like, you know, like we were talking about last week, that not everyone has the same goal. Or maybe you think you do, and then you get into it, and you're like, ooh. You know, because I'll have guys ask me when we get started, and they're good, you know. What do you think? How far do you think I can take this? And I always say, give me 10 years and I'll tell you. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And they're like, what? And I'm like.  I'm, I'm serious, like if you really want to see how far you can take this, you got to give it a decade, and it's perfectly fine to hear that sentence and go, I'm going to try to do as good as I can at the local show, you know, and I don't think there's anything wrong with that, and that's a part as a coach that you have to remember is, you're being honest with them, and then you can just tell them, like I would tell somebody, hey listen, if this is the most you want to give this, it's fine, but I'm going to be the one that tells you, you're never going to achieve that goal, not because you can't, but because you don't want to achieve that goal, you can't win it bad enough to make the sacrifices needed, and you can't win it bad enough to make the sacrifices needed, and that doesn't mean you're, you know, you're not hardcore or whatever, it just means it's not that important to you, and that's cool. Yeah. I'd rather you do that than fumble around with it for a decade and decide six years in that I'm not a good coach because I can't turn you pro on 70% effort. Yeah. I saw a great quote posted on this one guy that I follow, just put it up. I don't know what prompted him to put it up, but he just said, like, some people need to stop telling themselves that they want something because their actions and efforts clearly demonstrate that they don't and you have to make sure that those things are aligning like oh so you keep telling yourself you want something but you're not you're not in love with doing it and doing the work to to do it and get it it's just it is an extraordinary waste of your time and that happens a lot in bodybuilding i see people talk about oh i want to win the show next year i want to win the show next year but they they think it's miserable and they complain and it's such a sacrifice for them and they're you know when they they fight with their wife about it all the time and it's just like it's and and they're not doing the things they need to do it's like we have to admit to ourselves when what we want is not actually what we think we want right and that reminds me that reminds me ron of something i remember learning in recovery because everybody who came to uh the program i was in the 12-step program they all wanted to get clean like they all wanted it but not everybody did and i remember somebody i can't remember who it was but somebody said to me the phrase that there's a difference between desire and willingness willingness that everybody has the desire but few people have the willingness so you can like want something all you want but if you weren't willing to do the things that it takes you're not going to get it right and that goes with recovery goes with bodybuilding goes with anything you know yeah it does actually it's funny you said i so you know when instagram and stuff started i used to love quotes and then i realized that most of the people who share quotes are people that read them and it gives them warm fuzzies but they're not doing anything with it right um but i saw something the other day and i i actually screenshot it because i was like this is the greatest explanation i've seen and it's allegedly a tom brady quote okay he said uh pink people think discipline is restriction it's actually freedom when you control yourself nothing controls you right i read that and i was like i've never heard that said more perfectly because when i was bodybuilding like you said ron like i didn't feel like i missed out on anything right i was doing everything i wanted to do every day whether i was forcing food down i didn't want or starving eating food i didn't like it was all a privilege because i'm like i'm doing the thing i want to do same with the gym i never liked cardio same with the cardio it was like i'm doing the thing and you know this i used to give gabe a hard time all the time with mutant when he was with us because he would be four weeks out from a show complaining and i was like why do you want to be a professional bodybuilder this is literally the job right like the thing that we love doing you're like i can't wait for this prep to be over i'm so tired of this i'm like you should do something else because the rest of us are having the time of our lives when we're in the heart of it right i mean jaco wrote a book called discipline equals freedom right right so it is a if it is a great mindset to have like you're not beholden to the just think of all the things you when you have a lot of self-discipline and control over your your actions you you're not beholden to like just think of all the anxiety other people go through and all that stuff and the worry and it's it's it takes all that away it's it it separates you from the noise you know discipline locks you into your own groove what's funny i remember ron when i first signed with mutant um george showed me the contract and like what my responsibilities were and i glanced at it real quick and i was like okay he goes what do you think and i was like i'm gonna do much more than that so i'm not worried right because like what they required was not enough to be doing my job well so i was like yeah we don't i won't ever pay attention to that because i'll surpass it every month and he just laughed because i'm like you want me to post you know three times a week i post three times a day right right you know yeah but when you're when you're in it and you love it i think and that's how i tell my girls all the time i'm like if if every job you take your standard is higher than where you work you become the best yeah it's easy right you know if what you what's good enough for them isn't good enough for you i promise you'll win and i like at the beginning of this conversation dusty you had said something about how bodybuilding is honest like you get what you put in and that's something that um it reminded me a client of mine the guy that i've worked with for 12 weeks now he did fantastic for 11 weeks right like 11 weeks he's freaking nailed it and guess what like he's made fantastic progress he fell off this past week and uh and i asked him i was like well what happened because he's like oh man it was a terrible week he's like honestly i didn't even want to check in and it turns out that he always preps his food on sunday night but something came up things kind of shifted he didn't prep his food sunday night so everything just went sideways and guess what this week he didn't make progress either you know what i'm saying but you know at the same time it's like i was really happy that he did check in because i've also worked with people who don't check in you know what i'm saying they're like they just kind of disappear they didn't check in this week but then maybe they get back on plan maybe they even push harder and this is what i was thinking about it they they catch back up right and they're like okay i'm 217 where i left off with scott i'll check back in and let him know so hey i messed up last week but i'm back on track just to let you know everything's good and i'm 217 again and i feel like if you do that you don't have to face the consequences of having made the mistake because like he feels bad he felt bad he felt bad about having to check in he felt guilty about having made the mistakes but like sitting with that and experiencing that i think is also like that's the reminder to not do it again you know what i mean versus instead you can compartmentalize that kind of put it to the side and then you know just double up your cardio and catch back up and then never have to have really feel those feelings but it doesn't really teach you the lesson instead he was willing to be like yeah man this sucks and it doesn't feel good and i don't want to do this again and next time guess what he's going to remember how that felt last time he made the mistake well plus i feel like when you when you have that and and listen you know we go on i have had times in my career that weren't perfect so i don't want to sound like oh yeah i've never missed a meal in my life but things get shifted and you find yourself and you know you're like it's not perfect you know what i mean but in the next time because there'll be a next time where it's off he'll be off monday but not all week yeah yeah you know like and that's that's the reminder you want to kind of push yourself guys when you're doing this is if you mess up and you eat a cheeseburger for lunch today that you weren't supposed to have you know the next move is to just eat the right meal the next meal yeah don't pull stuff down and get all just go right back to your plan get right back on point and then you say on tuesday i ate a cheeseburger for lunch but the rest of the week i was perfect and i'll go okay but it doesn't matter but if that becomes a whole week then you lose a ton of progress and you're like you know there's no reason he could have just came home monday prepped his food and got on point you know so it's it's sometimes those mistakes are actually awesome because they set you up and like you said he he then had the first week where he didn't see change and he went oh that's why my perfection matters yeah because i was seeing progress every week for 11 weeks and then i had an off week and i got the result that was fair for what i put into it yeah yeah and we have to you know we have to make those mistakes to then learn from them not do it again you know he'll probably and i told him i was like you'll probably make other mistakes but you probably won't make this one yeah you're definitely gonna make other mistakes it's part of the fun yeah yeah it's real easy when you just look at a diet you look at a pdf it's just it's all written out there meal one is this meal two like it's super easy when you just look at that but then try applying it to your life that's where things get difficult if it wasn't like all of us would all be ripped all the time you know what i mean everybody in the world would be in awesome shape all the time doesn't work out that way yeah yeah well guys what do you think is that we're at 119 how are we doing good to go that was what i had on and we covered everything i had um what's the plan for christmas you guys going anywhere what's going on i'll be right here you have no travel scott anymore no travel you're not coming to canada or anything like that no we're staying home we're watching my parents dog so that my parents can go out of town it's just going to be victoria and i we're going to have like super low-key don't need to go anywhere do anything it's going to be one of those christmases you  for example, so we never got to see my dad at Christmas, but hopefully this year works out good, but yeah minimal, just like head over for a quick one, no big deal, you know, you know, you know, you know, and the main thing is last, I remember, you know, and the main thing is last, I remember, last year, I went to the mall by my house, it's a really big mall close by, so it's handy to do a bunch of Christmas shopping, and I just remember walking around in, I was having a really bad day with my hip, and I remember walking around the mall, like thinking, I can't ever do this again, and now this year, I get to go Christmas shopping, like I'm, I think in a week, like after all this bruising, swelling goes down, swelling goes down, swelling goes down this week, I think I'm, I think I'm, I think I'm, I think I'm, I think I'm, I think I'm, I think like, oh, I should check that one store, and I'm like, oh, fuck, it's way down the other end, it's too far, yeah, like, oh, God, I'll get him a gift card, I almost got to go to my car, drive around, come in another door, like, is it worth that, you know, and, but that's kind of one of the things I'm most excited about is, you know, like, my buddies are all telling me that, you know, they kept looking for the good parking spot for a couple months, and they remember they didn't need to, yeah, right, just, just take the first one, you're good, and just walk in, like, you're fine, and so that's, I'm excited for that stuff, is just the day-to-day stuff, where I'm not like, like, it was to the point where I would be like, how do I get in and out of my truck the minimum number of times per day, yeah, right, like, That's freaking terrible. Like if I'm in my truck already, I might as well get my oil changed. I might as well get this done. I might as well get this done. I might as well get this done because I don't have to get out and I can do five things instead of getting my oil changed tomorrow because that's another getting in my truck event. Like that's how I was thinking. And I just can't wait for that to be gone, you know? And it's like just. It's going to be weird to see Ron walking without a limp. Well, you know what else? We have a run. It's been years. Yeah. And I fucking didn't realize how long. And there's people that have trained at my gym for years that don't know that that limp isn't like a life. How you walk. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Like they think, oh, Ron must have an old war wound. Yeah. Yeah. I got a bullet in my back, you know? Like. You know? Like that type of thing. So, you know, they just think that old crippled guy that owns a gym. And they don't know the story. So I can't wait to just kind of get past all that. But yeah. Speed through the gym, up the stairs. Like a ninja. Well, and we have the new Rogers hip press. We got it like a year and a bit ago. And I've tried to use it. But I did like the top third of the range. Because I couldn't. I can't do it. I can't wait to just. Like I see everybody in that. That Rogers hip press. Getting those nice deep reps out. Yep. And I'm just like. You know? I can't wait. You heard Roman. 405. 405. 405. 405. 405 years later. Yep. First time ever I'm telling Ron. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. Yeah. Dusty's actually saying no to me. Which is like. Oh. Okay. He really must have. He should not do this. He should not do this. He's like that's a big no. Dusty says no. Dusty says no. Yeah. It's bad news. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, thanks guys. And thanks everybody for tuning in. I enjoyed seeing the comments down the side. Someone made me laugh. um oh that was literally the exact length of my training session cut off perfect for you tanya um okay thanks everyone remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell yes remember i am mutant.com go to i am mutant.com get your iso surge get your your hardcore iso now it's called get your get your big greens the best green product ever get the chocolate it's amazing um get your mind fk i've had people telling me by the way since we talked about it the other week there have been people who are like dude that stuff is lights out it's amazing if you haven't tried to try to by the way we had somebody say they didn't like the peach flavor which blew my mind i was offended yeah i was surprised by that number one i don't really care this is me personally when it comes to maybe it's because i've been doing this for a long time i'm not really i don't care i'm not married to the flavors of of a supplement i just send the one you have flavors are never what dictate much unless a protein powder has taste given other things i don't care yeah protein powder is one thing but what do you guys like for mind fk i which is my flavor dude i i order tropical punch i order tropical punch because i like tropical punch gear and i yeah i and sometimes like sometimes i'll put some gear in with my mind fk and drink like i just i like tropical punch i'm a punch guy yeah you know what i think is don't put in a lot of water dude no i literally put the mind fk in like like four ounces of water and slam it down i do have to say this um i'm although i said i'm not a huge fan of flavors i do love the blue raspberry all in like i this flavor like it just hits me and i'm like it's time to train something about this flavor that i like yeah yeah yeah it's good but that's people need to know if i'm not you know uh pumping mutant's tires but mutant has their own flavor scientist yeah like oh yeah to go up to the lab where cheryl worked and she's inventing flavors like they're not buying flavors that are pre-made like a lot of companies are like you know third-party manufacturers so it's like yeah i want chocolate number 27 yep and they get their product or chocolate number 27 they go that's good let's sell that mutant doesn't do that it's they're making their own chocolate they're making when i was there lemonade yes you guys are doing even like in-house testing we're like everybody in the company is like at one o'clock we're all doing a taste testing today right i used to get called up to the flavor lab once a week go up there jim would be up there maybe a guy from another department would be up there and she'd have a bunch of isosurge or i you know isolate or pre-workout flavors out and they'd all be the same flavor but we'd tell her which one you know like this one's the best you'd be like okay that one has the most salt in it so you're you're tasting yeah and then we'd come back two weeks later and it'd be that with a few variations and we'd go that one's better she's like i i added a little bit more this so it it pulls this out more and just really crazy and flavors are interesting i don't know if you guys remember those like gourmet jelly bean trays it used to get for christmas oh yeah yeah yeah i remember reading like how fascinated i was when i would read the little chart and it would be like i take a pineapple and a vanilla jelly bean and you get lemon meringue pie yeah huh you're like this doesn't even make sense and i'm like well where's the lemon come from because there's no lemon in vanilla and there's no lemon in pineapple but when you ate them together it tastes like lemon meringue pie so like flavors are very fascinating how they like and this flavor scientist that worked at mutant she was explaining to me like how things like join and cause new flavors to happen and you know because you you just think these two flavors shouldn't equal this flavor yeah and so sometimes when she'd say i'd be like oh this is way more like you know i'm just making something up but i'd be like oh this is a really good lemonade she'd be like yeah i added more watermelon to it and it looked i i walked in that room there's no watermelon in the taste but she's like yeah because it mixes and it comes out more lemony it's like what when when i visited they were they were working in that lab it looks literally like a laboratory and there's all these different flavors and stuff white coats all these different flavors up like just shelves of stuff it's like it looks like you're in like a high school chemistry science lab oh yeah and then the wall of all the competitor all the competitors products because they got a taste test against everything else right so we have all the other brands lined up when we go lemonade lemonade lemonade oh we can beat that day i mean yeah it's very jim loves his flavors and mutant's very proud of doing custom flavors so you know a lot of people out there they go out blue raspberry i've had it before but you know mutant is making their own flavors so that's another thing i love about how everything tastes yeah yeah yeah good stuff okay thanks everybody remember did i do all the did i do the thing we rang the bell we rang the ring the bell did i get out of the way you did the mutant yeah it's good okay she's gonna say goodbye okay everyone also too um uh we're very excited for uh the new year all the travel dusty and i are getting our itineraries already we're getting sent places and uh hopefully scott can drag you along with us to a couple of these so i'm looking forward i'd love to okay thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding no one really gives a fuck no one you you