ooloolool-6-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool-grisool We are brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians. And of course, truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there to get all your basic bodybuilding supplements, protein powder, creatine, intra-workout, and more. Anyway, guys, by the way, oh, one more thing. I always forget. You know what? If you're new to our stuff, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. Each of us have been coaching for at least 15 years. I'm not putting you on the spot, Skip. I'm not saying you're old. I'm not saying you coach for longer than us. But we've all been coaching for at least 15 years. How about that? And we're here to just basically freely share our education with you. This is basically what we do day in, day out, full time. And we're answering your questions on the podcast to help you guys do the best you can in the sport that we all freaking love. And we're going to do a bunch of gear talk today, it looks like, based off of the questions you guys left. I wanted to run to the IGF question first, because, Andrew, you told me before the show that you recently ran some LR3. What are your thoughts on IGF LR3 specifically for muscle growth? Well, my thoughts are the same as that they were three or four years ago when we talked about it, about, you know, those, we'll call them exotics. You know, you have your tried and true, your anabolic PEDs, your GH, insulin. Those things we put in the category, like we know they work, right? And then we have those other things, IGF-1, LR3, IGF-1 DES, MGF, some of those other things, right, that you try. And every couple of years, I'm like, all right, you know, I'm running low gear. Let's do a little something else and just see, you know. And, yeah, I did some IGF LR3 DES. Oh, you did the DES. Okay. I did the DES, and I did 50 micrograms bilaterally, 50 and then eventually 100 bilaterally in each body part for about, I want to say, five and a half weeks. And I saw nothing different. I mean, I know people want to hear like, oh, you know, I did see some more growth or I did see, you know, whatever. Now, it's the same as it's always been. And I've probably done this three, maybe four times over the last 15 years of like, you know what, maybe a different company's brand or maybe a different product. Or maybe if I just dose it a little bit higher. Yeah. Now, I didn't see any localized growth or any increase in appleism in any way, shape, or form. So did you get any, so did you, you have used just the straight up LR3 in the past? I've noticed if I use LR3 pre-workout, it does have an insulin-like effect. You know, there is that. Did you get that effect from it? You know, it's funny you mentioned that. No. And here's how I know why. Because one day I accidentally misplaced, I switched up my GH and my IGF bottle. And I took like probably three milligrams worth of IGF-1 in one shot. Three milligrams, not three units. No, three milligrams. Like half the bottle, like the majority of the bottle. So I'm like, oh, my GH bottles don't have a label. That one is, oh, idiot. And then that was like five minutes after I took it. And I'm like, well, I should probably monitor and make sure, you know, I don't feel like I'm going hypo or anything. Nothing, dude. Absolutely nothing. So, and I'm not saying it was the company's product because this is the same experience as I've had with all IGF-1 products. I just don't see much out of it. Okay. I get the pump. I notice that. I notice if I, yeah, and I haven't used it for years, man. And it's not something that I'm adamant about. Like I'm never at a point with clients where I'm like, oh, we should really run IGF now, you know. But I have used it with a few people. And if I use it, it's generally going to be short-term stints, three weeks at a time. And we might taper the dose up a little bit as we go. So, but keeping it fairly low and always, I've always liked pre-workout. If nothing else, I do feel like you do get an incredible pump. Even if you don't use it locally, you know, I've just popped it in a shoulder and then trained legs, you know. And I've noticed an insulin-like effect. But, man, I'm going to be honest with you. Should I have probably reinvested that money somewhere else? Probably, you know. First bottle I bought, dude, was 2005. If you guys remember, it was really hard to get back then. And I remember I sold this amplifier. I didn't want it. I had like a PA system. And I sold this PA system for like $250. And this company had, it was like hard to get, IGF LR3, $250 for one milligram. I was like, yeah, I'm going to try it, you know. All the big guys must be using this. That's what they're telling me on the message boards. And, you know, I got some effects from it, but nothing like you would, nothing like you would think, you know. Was not worth the 250. Is it possible? Is it possible the effects were placebo? Okay. Well, here's the one that I've mentioned this on a couple shows before that was so freaking weird. That, like, a few days in, all the pores on my face just shrank and disappeared. Like, my skin looked, like, it literally changed. Like, any blackheads and stuff, they were, like, all gone. All the pores on my nose and everything just disappeared. And it lasted for, like, six weeks. Like, even after I finished it for, like, another several weeks after that. And I got it from that one vial. I never got that effect again from IGF. So, eh, who knows? The reason I started. It basically was injectable Accutane. Yeah. The reason why I started it up again to give it another run was, you know, I pulled almost all PEDs out. But I was like, all right, let's try something else with, like, a, you know, a baseline of, like, just very low TRT in. But also, I have a client that takes it, and he's a super responder to everything. Okay. I mean, everything. You know, 270 with abs, pro bodybuilder. And I'm like, you know what? He likes it, and it works really well for him. Maybe I just got to give it another shot. And so that's what catalyzed me to, or, you know, put me towards trying it again. And, eh. Yeah. It's worth trying, I guess, for anybody, you know, is there's that. Yeah. I want to also point out, like, back then, like, you sold, like, a $250, like, something of value to you to acquire somewhere. And, like, back then, it would probably be, like, I would have done the same thing. Like, oh, I'll sell whatever, something, you know, some sneakers or whatever, you know, just to have that money. Whereas, like, today, it's like, it's not that big of a deal. You're like, all right, I might be throwing 300 bucks away for an experiment, you know? How many coffees is that? How many, you know? Yeah. And is this technically a write-off since I'm doing it for the podcast? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. What about subcutaneous trend? Guys, do you know anybody who's jabbing trend sub-Q? Vigorous Steve did it, apparently, and said it was no difference for him. I'm planning to do about 15 milligrams of acetate a day and do it this way. Anybody with any experience, please leave your feedback for me. Hmm. I know. No, I haven't. But I don't see why it would be any different than subcutaneous testosterone or some other product, you know? Yeah. You guys ever find that? My only thought would be, is it more like a caustic shot? Like when I did injectable D-ball, it was in a lot of super solvents. It had a lot going on to make it what it was. And I think it settled better in the muscle. I got more welts from a sub-Q shot of D-ball. Plus, I was also trying to do like a half mil to a mil versus he's talking a fraction of a mil, you know? I don't like oil sub-Q, if that's what you're at. I'm just not a fan. But that's just me. Even in small dose and micro dose and everything else, sub-Q, water-based, sure. You know, a peptide or something, but not. I tend to agree with you. Yeah. And for the most part, I'm with you guys. The only reason I ever did the D-ball sub-Q was because I was already taking so many shots, you know? And I was like, ah, just like I want to give a site a break for a day, you know? What else did we have here? I know there was a bunch of stuff. Question, please. I'm a competitive athlete and currently in my off-season running test E500, DECA 500, and I run four weeks of Anadrol and take four weeks off of it to rest the liver with Tutka and NAC as support. Is this an okay approach before switching the compounds to EQ and test and then D-ball for four weeks before my prep? And he adds, I don't drink alcohol. Switching to EQ four weeks before? EQ and D-ball? Yeah. Yeah. I think so. So he's doing DECA. Yeah, he's doing Oros four weeks on, four weeks off with DECA. He's going to switch to EQ and then switch to the D-ball four weeks off. I guess my question back to him would be like, what is your goal in this process of switching compounds? Like if the test and DECA and Anadrol off and on are working for your growth cycle and you're in the off-season phase, or I guess he said he's an athlete, if those are working, what's the reasoning to switching to EQ and D-ball? You know what I'm saying? Mm-hmm. And EQ is such a long ester that give it a couple weeks for blood levels to even come up. Yeah. Yeah. Four weeks before a competition or? I guess, does it say what sporty plays? No, he's just an athlete. Okay. Okay. I'm just going to make a fictitious, you know, setup in my mind here. Yeah. He's going into off-season and then he's switching to EQ and he's starting more of a conditioning phase to, like his season's about to start. So he's maybe doing more athletic stuff. Let's just say he's a football player and he's starting to do some sprints in the summer and some, to try to build his conditioning. Maybe that's what he's trying to do. Um, and he wants to also eliminate some of the water retention, but then he's also throwing D-ball back in. So it kind of eliminates that. So I don't know. Yeah. Um, here's what I would do. If it were on a dry erase board and he had just started out, I'd wipe his plan clean and I would start with different compounds instead of DECA and just ride them all the way through. It's just not a long period of time. I don't see much of a benefit changing a long ester injectable four weeks in to change it for another four weeks. Yeah. Yeah. Personally. Is he switching just for four weeks or is he riding it out for like four weeks of EQ plus D-ball? It sounded like four weeks in four weeks, but I might be wrong. So I think he was doing DECA in test and then throughout that he was going four on, four off, four on, four off with- With Anadrol. With Anadrol. And now he's going to do the same thing with D-ball and EQ. Longer term. Okay. If it's a long term thing that's different, then I'm misunderstood. And is he maybe just using EQ to experiment with EQ to like see, okay, does this work better as a growth agent for me than DECA? Yeah. I'll say this. I don't know how well you're going to do liver wise four weeks on, four weeks off repeatedly. I don't want to rely on orals like that personally. No, but I have seen, because I do a similar approach with orals for clients in the offseason. Yeah. Because I have seen and experimented with different lengths of time, whether it be eight on, four off, six on, six off. And four on, four off does seem to be the best combination. I want to take a little bit of credit for it, but I don't know if I get it or not because I don't know if I was one of the first. I just know that years ago I settled on that because of blood work and labs that I had seen not only with myself, but with clients. And I see that come around as being kind of a, I don't want to say a rule, but I hear about that four on, four off since. And I didn't hear about it prior to me saying that. Yeah. So I don't know if that played into it or not, but I will tell you that it is a very good combination for getting the impact from the oral. Without it being as detrimental to liver values, even with the more harsh compound, like an anadrol. But how many like times can you do that? Cause I feel like he's gone through an offseason doing this. Well, I mean, everybody would be a little bit different, but four weeks on four. So the point is, is you're not getting that big hit on liver values. So when you reset for four weeks, it's arguably plenty of time for the liver values to kind of reset, even if they are a little elevated, but they're not, they don't tend to elevate as dramatically until you get over the six and eight week mark. So the four weeks you get the benefit, but then you're off for four weeks. It's a, it's a pretty good, I would say most people could go four on four off for quite a while. Okay. Fair enough. Yeah. Fair enough. Not just based on my experience of what I have seen, not only, like I said, with my blood work, but also with clients who have done the same thing. And it's been a long time. I mean, I want to say I probably started to settle into that four on four off right around like 2010. It's been a while. Okay. 2010, 2012. And there's something. Well, you got me thinking now too. Check it out and do your labs on it and see. Yeah. I think you'll be like, oh, damn. And then play with it and go, okay, I'll stay on six to eight weeks and then I'll come on for four or six. Then, you know, cause you're kind of trying to balance. The reason I wanted the same amount on versus off was by the time you get off, you're still benefiting for a couple of weeks, even though you stopped the oral. Yeah. And then, so then you only really have a couple of weeks before you can go back on instead of this longer time off. It's pretty good. It's a pretty good rotation. All right. All right. Coupling a compound with test, trying to grow as much freaking muscle as you can. Which of these three compounds is going to yield the best results? And I guess you'd have to figure in the, like that health ramifications is what, like how long you can run them for as being part of that too. NPP, Anadrol, injectable D-ball. Those are the three that you get. This was another question, by the way. I'm not just making this up. I would do NPP. Yeah. I would agree. Because, all right, you take an Anadrol and D-ball, they're more transitory in terms of the weight and the mass you're putting on. Like, you know, you take Anadrol for 15 days, you might be up seven pounds. You pull it back out, you're back down six, you know, within a week or so. Whereas with NPP, it's blood levels are stable. You can ride that out for 20 weeks or whatever, you know. I would say, yeah, I would agree. Hey, what's up, guys? I wanted to take a break from the podcast and do something that would be a little bit different to keep you entertained while I do my True Nutrition ad. So I brought Maddie with me. I want to let you know. Oh, she doesn't like the mic. I want to let you know that the code THINK now offers 10% off at True Nutrition. That's the main thing I wanted to tell you. You know, I talked to the people over there. We got that set up. And now I get commission on order. So I get 5% off or you guys get 10% off. I collect 5% commission. There's people coming. Don't you bark. There's a dog walking by. It's okay. You're all right. Anyway, I'm going to put a link in the description. And I think that if you use that link, it'll put the code in automatically. But it's code THINK. It helps to support the show. You guys get awesome supplements in the process. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm going to place an order myself this weekend for the cookie butter flavored whey isolate cold filtered. Maddie, she's got nothing to say on that one. Anyway, that's it, guys. We appreciate you guys watching the shows. Appreciate you supporting the programs. Let's get back to it. I'd go with that. I'm with you guys 100%. All right. Johan from Patreon says, hope everything is all right with all you guys. Question for BSG. With all the talk about the new stuff nowadays, SLUPP332, MOTC, I'm rarely hearing now about injectable L-carnitine. I'm not hearing about it talked about as much anymore. What would be your thoughts on it? And is it still something that you utilize if you did? I know that Scott has talked about it before. As always, love the show. I think it's a great compound. I think it's just a given that it works well. And when I say works well, it's not dramatic. It's not obvious. But there's so much going on, so many positive things in the background, even from a health standpoint, that I really do think it, for most people, it should be in there. Yeah. I think it's just not talked about because it's kind of a standard that most people take it now. And it's not a hot topic like it was seven years ago of like, oh, injectable L-carnitine can help you with fat loss and brain fog and other benefits as well. I think it's kind of just a standard. And I mean, I'm not going to say I write it in every single client's plans, but anyone that's a competitor, it's written into their plans. Yeah. I love it. I just don't like the frequent injections. So I'd use it every day otherwise. But I'll get into the habit of it, and I'll still use it for a while, and then I won't. But you know what? A few years ago, I get what he's saying. A few years ago, like there was a lot of content about it, you know, and people were like, it's going to do this, this, and this for you. And now you're not hearing it. So I can see. Isn't that the case with everything, at least in bodybuilding media, especially when talking about products? Like if somebody, oh, okay, let's talk about the GLPs. You know, that was a hot topic six months ago, and every podcaster was talking about their experiences using it. And we did our thing on it, you know, because we've all used them or are using them. You know, then SLU, and it's kind of like anything with media. You've got to have fresh topics, and you've got to have things on the horizon that people should try and talk about, you know? You know, I am doing something different with RETA, actually. You know, I've gone with two shots per week, one milligram twice per week. One milligram every four days, so two milligrams every eight days. And I wanted to see, I'm doing an experiment now. You know, it has a pretty decently long half-life, and it was designed to be used less frequently. I'm doing just one shot of two milligrams. And I kind of have a theory behind it that, and it was something I had been talking to Victoria about, that getting that higher spike, you know what I mean, is going to do something more than two smaller spikes that are then overlapping. So, I don't know. I don't know, you know, what I'll get out of it, but I want to be open-minded and see, like, now that I have a lot of experience with one milligram every four days, what do I get out of, you know, two milligrams every seven, you know? It's funny. I've kind of gone the opposite way to, like, daily, like 0.3 milligrams. Have you? If someone's doing, you know, two milligrams a week, well, let's see what 0.3, especially if people are like, hey, by the third day, I'm really getting hungry again, or fourth day, I'm really starting to feel hungry again. You know, not that I'm always trying to mitigate hunger, because I do think hunger is a good sign for us, or it's a good signal to us in coaching in terms of where we are with the diet. But, yeah, no, I'm doing some experiments with people running it, you know, 0.3 or 0.4 milligrams daily. So, I noticed my hunger wasn't as, it wasn't as controlled anymore, all right? And this is kind of where I'm gauging it, is what's my appetite like? And I can tell you that the first two days, it didn't seem like it was really any different, but today is the third day now. And I'm going to tell you, like, I'm supposed to eat on the same schedule as you, Skip. And you're like, I got to be done by 6.30, I'm like, yeah, I'll go to 7.30, 8 o'clock, it'll be all right. You know, like, so at least for now, but, you know, let's revisit that conversation in four days and see where I'm at, right? Yeah. I have changing thoughts, and I don't think we have time for it, with Retta. What's your thought? Through this prep and everything else, I've had to really take a harder look at it. And I'm nowhere near, I still use it, and I see the benefits, but I've had to really play around with it because it's a different animal in prep. You guys probably heard me say, I don't see the fullness issue, flatness. Oh, yeah. I've never seen that. You know, I made some comparisons to my scale weight and condition last year at this phase versus now, and I'm having some head games. You feel like you're not full or what? No, I'm very flat. And so what I've done is I've started to actually, there's another issue, and that's distension. Okay. Oh, from the slow digestion? Yes. The distension is to the point where I've had to, I dose it daily as well. As an example, 10 units a day, and, you know, you'd have to get into dosing, but it's 1.75 a week. Anyway, I've slowly started to pull down one unit each week over the last three weeks to try to help because what has really happened is this last weekend I hit the wall. Like, I just, like, F me. Yeah. But there's no hunger. Like, and when I say no hunger, I mean there is no hunger. I can eat. I can load. But the distension, even in the morning when I wake up after going too low carb, you know, low days without training, it's dramatically different than last year to the point where I see it visually and I'm like, I got to change this. Like, what is causing this? And I immediately went to the RETA because it's the only variable that is really different than last year. The methods are different. Yeah. From dieting. Don't get me wrong. And I'm supposed to be flat as hell right now because I'm coming in about five weeks and then we'll start building in over the last four to five weeks. I get it. But when I make the comparison of my condition now versus this weight last year, I have to not make the comparison. Let's put it that way. For what it's worth. It becomes a giant head big time. I'm not competing, obviously, right? But for what it's worth, I'd been running it, you know, longer term up until we went on our trip to Vancouver. And I took a dose before we left and then I didn't take a dose for an entire week. And when I got back, I didn't take a dose for another three or four days. So it was about 11, 12 days. And I also went off plan. You know, I did bring food with me and then we went to the grocery store and prepped food. But we like also went out to a wedding and I ate two slices of cake and I got fish and chips and I ate samosas. These Indian samosas. Oh, my God. Were those things good and hot as hell. But I'll tell you what, Skip, before I left, like, dude, I was like swimming in my XL T-shirts even. Like my I didn't look like I'm like little Scott here, you know. Like I didn't feel like I looked like I lifted at all, dude. And I was OK with it because I'm like, I know I'm real flat right now. But it wasn't until I got back and I got a workout in and after having been off it for 10 days and I was like, oh, I feel like I'm on D-ball or something, man. I filled right back out, dude. It was it was like literally night and day. Victoria, I didn't say anything to her. And she's not the first to be, you know, like she doesn't care. Right. But she was like, you look way fuller, you know. Now, I'm filling out when I go to eat and load and everything else I fill out. But I mean, we're talking about by the day. It doesn't take four or five days. And it's brutal. It goes away so quickly. Now, it could just be the different methods. And, you know, I'm fine. But there are things that are coming up. It's like usually I'm pulled in at this weight. I'm not pulled in at this weight. Even my wife said she goes and she's apathetic. She doesn't say anything about anything. She just like you just look skinny. But the strength is there. I'm stronger than I've ever been strong. Way stronger than I was last year. Yeah. So the muscle is there. It's just. Very, very flat when it comes down to time to. Time to load. Well, that's why I pull it back over the last two weeks. Then that's what that's what I started at 10. I'm down to I'll be transitioning to seven. This what's today Wednesday, probably in the next couple of days. And I'm slowly bringing it down because I, you know, I want the gastric emptying to speed up a little bit. Yeah. But I also don't want to all of a sudden get hit with hunger. Not because I can't deal with hunger. But when I haven't dealt with hunger for five months, six months. I don't want to all of a sudden, you know, run the risk of, you know, coming off the rails or doing something, you know, something stupid. So I can tell you that everyone that I've had, they were like, oh, my God, I didn't realize I've been I should have been this hungry for the last weeks. And at that time, you know, we pull it like maybe two and a half weeks out or two weeks out. And they're like, holy crap. Like I. But the offset is they're getting full and fuller every day. Their pumps are better in the gym. They look better. So that like that's a good way to, you know, mitigate the. Oh, I just I want to go eat this. You know what I mean? And I have done a couple of things like I have added more glutamine, especially to my load and high carb days. That has helped tremendously for digestion. So that's helping, too. But I'm being very careful because it's one of those things where I literally looked and went. I need to fix this now. Like, I can't leave this and then go, oh, crap. Yeah, I think it's the same thing, too, when a lot of people rely on a lot of metformin throughout their prep. And then when they don't pull it, you know, they think, oh, it's going to be a great it's going to help me as a glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent or something like that. And it's going to help me feel better. And it's like, no, it just leaves you flat, which is another reason why I pull metformin out, too. In most cases. I noticed getting back into dieting and getting back on the RETA that it didn't, like, work immediately for me. Because the hunger came up real high again. And I'm talking, like, hunger where – because I'm dieting decently. I've been dieting decently hard, you know. But I realized, I'm like, oh, my God, I'm, like, really hungry. I eat and I'm still hungry, hungry, you know. And it took a good 10, 15 days now to – yeah, 10 plus days, 12 days, something like that to get back into it, you know. It's finally after I took this double dose, basically, the full week dose that I'm like, now, okay, now my appetite's under control again. Maybe just throw some Anadrol in for – you know, like, titrate it so, like, RETA going down, Anadrol going in. Okay, I still lost my appetite, but I'm growing and I'm getting full. Yeah. Yeah, I'm all for – back to his question. Like you said, you guys said, the L-carnitine. I think it's great. And I think there's a lot of benefits to it still. So we're – just because we're not talking about it doesn't mean that we're not fans. Yeah, we all take it. Have you guys heard of anybody – because I'm hearing about this more and more. People supplementing with estradiol. Interesting. If you have any thoughts, possibly using it to raise the amount of primo one could tolerate is what George said. I remember I came across a post or something. Who's the guy that goes by the prep coach? I can't remember his name. But, yeah, and I remember being like, well, there's other things you can do than Ad-Astral. Thank you. Like, for instance, you know, I'll add in something like Tristalone. Okay. You know, like very low dose, like five milligrams a day if someone is getting their E2 crushed, you know. Or it's like, you know what, maybe Primo. Yeah. Maybe Primo just isn't the one for you. That's my go-to. I'm like, okay, so why are you stuck on the – in Primo? Like, come on. Here's my thing. And I understand that I need to be careful with this. I get on paper. It makes sense. It's logical. I get it. But I've been around long enough. I'm not going to inject estrogen. I'm just not going to do it. I'm not – or even take it in orals. I'm going to make other decisions based on the compounds that I'm using and just switch them out. If it's crushing your estrogen, just take something else. And it won't be as expensive. It's more likely to be real. Anything else will be less expensive than Primo, right? Yes. I know. Different scenario. Guy I just started working with, he did a cycle – so he said, you know, I don't want to lose my hair. Younger guy. He said, I have successfully run a DECA-only cycle with three milligrams of estrogen per week. Dang. I was like, did you have any issues? You know, like was there any libido, anything? Nope. It felt great. He was like, I just didn't want to mess with my hair. But the thing I countered him with is that he's on 175 tests year-round for TRT. I would just ride that test would be my first thought. But, I mean, it's interesting. It's an interesting world. That's all I'm going to say. You know? And to each their own. Look, I'm not telling people what to do. I'm just telling people what I would and wouldn't do. Sure. What I'm comfortable with. That's all I want to understand. In the cycle. So, 125 mg a test. He cut the test out. He cut the test out. Yeah. Cut the test out. Because he's like, I don't want to deal with hair loss. Okay. I would think, though, your risk of hair loss from the 175 test is no different whether you're on DECA or not. But then he added the DECA in with, you said he added in estrogen? Three milligrams of estrogen. Yeah. Injectable estrogen every week. Did he need the estrogen? I guess. I don't know. You know, maybe. Because I've heard of some people that do a higher DECA only cycle. And that they do great with it. You know? I'm not one of those people, I don't think, because I feel like I had some weird suppression stuff going on, you know, even with a low dose of DECA added to test. I'd like to talk to his wife or girlfriend. We'll say partner, to be politically correct. Just to see if he just constantly cries. It's very, very emotional. No, I don't know. And like I said, to each their own. I'll just, I'll go on record and say, I'm not going anywhere near that. Not doing that. Yeah, me neither. All right. Oh, Casey's got one for us. Kind of a segue from. I look sexy with no hair anyway. Your primo question. Your primo thought, Skip. In your experience, which gear is least likely to be faked? And which is least likely to be, or most likely to be real? The gear that you get from a source that is trusted and you've used for a long time. I don't think it has to do with the compounds as much as it does, really, the source. And whether that person gets quality raws. Even a good source can get bad gear. Don't get me wrong. But compound, I mean, I don't know. You're far more likely to get fake Anovar or Premable just because they're more expensive. You're more likely to get fake Sarastin than Yard Generics. Or maybe not even Sarastin, but farm grade GH. Because the profit margin is so much larger. It's a supply-demand, capitalistic type of thing. They're not going to mess around with things if the profit margin isn't there. So things like tests and things that are relatively cheap, you're going to get real. Well, it's always funny to me because clients will say, or even friends, they'll be like, yeah, you sent in a bottle of testosterone and EQ to be tested. So just take it and see if it works or not. And they get it back and they go, well, it's underdosed. Like, why would it be underdosed? Oh, but it's underdosed. It's not that bad. Get rid of that source. He underdosed testosterone. Like, come on. It's like one of the cheapest compounds to make. The profit margin is massive. Just find a source that will make testosterone at 200, 250, or 300 milligrams per mil. Come on now. Now, I understand people don't have access to a lot of different sources. They may not be as well connected. I get that. I totally understand. I did see someone in the group posted a Janoschik report of some test sip that came back at like 139 milligrams, I think it was, per CC. I don't know if you guys saw that one. I did. Yeah. Yeah. Let me ask you guys this then. Follow-up question, Andrew. And I want to get your opinion too, Skip. So how do we vet a source? How can we tell whether it's going to be like, you know, first of all, you know, let's say you're finding this, you know, online or whatever. How can you tell if this is a good one or a bad one just by looking at it? Well, honestly, because I haven't had to do that in 20 years. Let me tell you a sec real quick. And I got to say this out of respect. This is really sad. And it's not about directly about gear. But I had a source for almost 18 years. Knew him real well, but didn't know who he was. Never wanted. He knew who we were, you know, because he watched the podcast. He knew who I was. He would reference, you know, my family and stuff like that. We had a really good conversation. I always told him, I said, I don't want to, I want to meet you one day. Like bump into you and have a conversation with you. But I don't want to know who you are because if anything, if you ever got busted, you would know. That I knew. I don't know who you are. Yeah. So it had nothing to do with me. He had a heart attack about two months ago. Two months ago. And I hit him up and didn't know this. And he said, oh, I'm getting out of the hospital, but everything is fine. So I'll let you know what's going on when I get home. Yeah. He responded from the hospital. And then he responded the next couple days. And he said, hey, you know, I had a heart attack. Had to put some stints in. I'm pretty scared and everything. We went back and forth and talking to him and stuff. And I told him I was concerned. He was scared and anything else. And haven't heard from him in a month and a half. So, and you have to understand, it's not just haven't heard from him. Yeah. I get it, man. I had, there were some other things that happened that I'm not going to get into here. Yeah. Because it's public that made it very clear what happened. And it's just really sad. You know, someone will make a joke and be like, oh, you don't have a source anymore. It has nothing to do with that. I can get gear. I don't have a problem getting gear. It's just really sad that you have the, you build these relationships, whether it's gear, whether it's training, whether it's with clients. And then these things happen and you may not meet the, ever meet these people face to face. Ever. May not even know what they look like, but you have that relationship with them. And when something like that happens, it's, it's really, it's horrible. It just kind of squeezes your, your, you know, your heart a little bit like, fuck, man, are you serious? Like he said, he goes, everything was great. I was losing a bunch of weight and everything else. I just, I just, I thought I was low blood sugar. My daughter found me and I was telling her it's okay. You know, it's just low blood sugar. And he had to go to the hospital. He had stints put in. He had a heart attack. Didn't have any ideas having a heart attack. Anyway, I'm not trying to, you know, go down this negative rabbit hole. I just, I wanted to say that cause it's, it's, it kind of hit me. I got a, I got a, I got a, one thing you can consider a source that has literally everything on the list and it's all always in stock. Sometimes that can be a good thing, but you know what? I, if I see something out of stock, I look at that as a good sign. I'm like, Oh, good. Okay. Yeah. Primo's not here right now. You're being honest with us. You know, you're not, you know, so sometimes it, sometimes it might not be the source that has every compound that is the best source. You know, they have most everything you need and you know, the prices aren't always necessarily perfect on every item, but they're, you know, a lot of times it's, it's not going to be the perfect thing when you see it's the perfect thing and they've got it all and they're making it real easy. I think that's one thing. And also to how they advertise, I would never go through a source on social media. You know, you see, I don't know how many messages you guys have gotten, but I have people who are like, Hey, I see that you're into bodybuilding. You know, would you be interested in it? I wouldn't go there. Anybody who's advertising to me, I am automatically very suspicious. Absolutely. You know, I wouldn't go one step further. And I would say that if you have any questions about a product that you've got, whether, you know, you tested it is different because if you tested it, they won't replace it. Then you need to get about as far away as possible. But if you even just have questions and they're willing to replace it, that's just good business. That's cool. And I'm big on if I had to go and get another, you know, source, cause I don't have any connections or whatever. I would not want a source that advertises. I want a source that is domestic and flies under the radar. Low key. They're more selective. They're more word of mouth. They're more, I mean, I've gotten by invitation only where someone referred you and they contact you and then you check with the person that referred. That way, you know, it's completely legit. And then you can refer a person to them. And that's a golden matter of fact, that's how it all started with this cat years ago. Hmm. Well, I had, um, but the advertising thing, cause someone shot me an email one time. They got my email probably maybe from the show or something. I don't know. Um, cause I watched the show and it wasn't just like a sales pitch. They introduced themselves. They, um, you know, sent me, told me his IG. So I could look up, see, he was legit, you know, a bodybuilder competed, um, him and his associates and stuff. And told me a little about, about their operation and where it was based and gave me a lot of, you know, information that. That's a little different too, you know. Yeah. And assured me that like, look, we're not here to make a quick buck today. Like we want to be a brand that's going to be around, um, for a while. And we know you've got a lot of clients. So we, and we want your clients to be happy. Um, and they also sent me a bunch of janitor reports, uh, that were dated within the last. You know, month or so. So I was like, you know, I'll give you guys a shot. Why don't you send me some stuff? And then I also sent those out to be tested and they came back exactly as they were listed, um, on the bottles as well as in the reports that he had previously sent me. So I felt pretty good about them and I've, I've been with them probably for about two or three years now. I'm very happy with, you know, customers are happy with the service and everything too. So I think the big thing to look out for is like anything, right? You get what you pay for. If, if someone's selling, you know, $30 bottles of trend, get ready for some infections, get ready for, uh, some, some, um, some painful injections and whatnot. You know, uh, you don't want it to be the most expensive in the world, but you don't want it to be the cheapest stuff that you can find online. You know, but I think like, like you're saying, developing a relationship, um, getting to know the people behind the computer screen or behind the cell phone. And, um, you know, one of them, I help out a little bit with, with bodybuilding in terms of his contest prep and his, um, you know, some decisions he's making with his, his bodybuilding. So nice. It's kind of nice. All right. How about this one? Um, what's the highest AST and ALT levels, uh, that someone should experience taking orals, dbol test, any cue? Um, um, what are the highest they could be before you would be concerned in a contest prep? Uh, also, uh, what is the best remedy to, uh, complete prep six weeks and managing high levels? dbol and EQ. Okay. dbol in a contest prep. Interesting. Not my first choice. Yeah. But hey, we're kind of putting ourselves out there by giving numbers, but I'll, I'll say this with. I'm comfortable saying this. And even though someone may take a shot, depending on the length of time that the liver values are elevated, if they're not going to be elevated for more than say six or eight weeks and they're running 150 mid hundreds or something, I'm okay with that. Yeah. I don't think that liver values are alarming until they're over. They're beginning to get alarming until they're over 200. It depends on how long they're going to be there. But you, if you get liver values that are over 200 and they starting to climb and they're 250, you better be watching what you're doing because when they get into the threes, some shit ain't good right there. But when people are running like 125 and 140, you know, they freak out because it's out of range and everything else. But that's, I've seen too much blood work for too long and how resilient the liver actually is. Yeah. Um, it's you, you, there's some, there's some room there. I would also think, feel like it depends on your scenario. Like if it's a contest prep guy who's at 140 or is it me that's like, Hey, I'm going to run a little deep ball. You know what I mean? If I'm at 140 and I might be like, ah, you know what, Scott, maybe let's do something else. You know, I don't need to be doing this. Yeah. Take it into effect. Okay. The stress your body's under, especially the last two weeks of a prep. Yeah. You're running usually multiple worlds. We always talk about Anwar, Winstral, Halo, but like you're probably using some provirin. You're, you're, you're probably using some trend. You're probably using multiple compounds that are having some effect on the liver as well. So, and your training, your cardio, all these things affect it. But a quick story about liver numbers. I brought a girl down, um, to our plastic surgeon like 10 years ago. Um, her and Rachel were getting an augmentation done same day. So it was kind of like just carpool and I'll take care of both of you. And, you know, they do labs before you do any type of procedure. The day of, or the day before to make sure you're healthy. And her liver values came back around 200 and, uh, for both and AST and ALT. And she wasn't, she didn't use any PEDs for her show of which we had finished her prep maybe two or three weeks prior. Okay. Um, so she was basically natural. And we know the doctor really well because I'm in the room with them while they're doing, doing their consults. And he looked at me and he's like, what, what, what do you have her on right now? And I'm like, nothing, man. Like she used a little bit of clean for her prep, but that ended four weeks ago, three weeks ago. Yeah. And he's like looking at him, he's like, okay, cool. This is like a world renowned surgeon too, by the way. This isn't just like some back alley, like, you know, most times they'll deny you for that too. This guy, he understood bodybuilding. He understood training. That's cool. Um, cause he worked with a lot of professional athletes on, on surgeries and stuff. So my point was, is I learned a lot about liver health and resiliency just in that instance of talking to him about that. And if he's willing to operate on someone with numbers that are three to four times elevated normal, um, and felt very comfortable doing it, knowing that she wasn't on anything. And, you know, he's like, you know, we'll do followup lip work, you know, when we, when we see again in four weeks, but I think you're good. And people need to understand too, you know, if you do an ibuprofen run of 800 milligrams a day or a thousand milligrams a day for a week. Yeah. Believe me, your liver values are going to be elevated. Yep. Let's see what else we have here. Um, all right. He says a question might not make sense, but, uh, okay. Any experience with anadrol? Um, he says looking for some insight on appetite loss from anadrol and what it feels like. I'm around two weeks in. I'm also taking some MK-677 and what I'm feeling is a need to eat, but the desire to eat is, uh, no longer there. Um, I have no drive to finish a meal. I can feel the MK-677 making me hungry. Then when I start eating, I get the ick pretty quickly. Um, but not necessarily nauseous. Haven't experienced this with any other orals and I've tried everything. I could still chow down. Um, let's see. I could still chow down when I was taking super draw. So it feels like what you're feeling. Yeah, pretty much. And I always think it's funny too, because people can be on anadrol and they're like, oh yeah, I get into the meal and I don't want to eat it. Just sit your ass down to a burger and fry and you'll eat it. It doesn't, you know what I mean? It doesn't give you that same ick feeling that the bland bodybuilding meals give you. Good point. Like anything though, you got to make sure your bodybuilding meals are, you know, taste good, palatable, you know, put a little more time into them. Add some vegetables that add some flavor, spice, et cetera. You know, but I think he's asking like, what does it feel like when you lose your appetite with using anadrol? It feels like exactly what you're talking about. You're motivated to get that meal in because it's time you take your first bite and you're like, oh man, I don't really want to finish this. My body doesn't want to finish this, you know? Yeah. But my thing is MK-677 and anadrol at the same time, to me, it's like, I wouldn't expect to have any appetite whatsoever. Well, MK usually increases appetite. So I think he's kind of trying to counteract it. But I'm thinking of the water. Early on it does. Early on it does. Okay. That's my point is once you're holding water and you're bloated, what do you start to do? You start to drink less water, right? Because you're just like, oh, I don't want to get anything in me. And then you get more bloated and your appetite gets even worse. So it's like a cycle that just gets worse. And then you add anadrol in. So I wouldn't expect him to have an appetite running these things. Yeah. I can see that. All right. Think about doing D-ball and primo cycle just because I've never tried D-ball and I want to try it. Oh my God. This is like the third or fourth person that has said D-ball today. And I can't help but feel like I've influenced them. I'm bringing D-ball back single-handedly. Apparently. What is the longest that you've run D-ball? Thinking of running it for eight weeks, but might run it for six weeks. Just curious on y'all's thoughts. I heard about this great idea where you run it for four weeks on, four weeks off, and you could pretty much do that infinity. That's what somebody told me once. I've heard the same thing. Somebody told you that too, Skip? Yeah. The wisdom beyond his years. You know who told Skip that was his wife. He was like, why don't you just run it four weeks on, four weeks off? Yeah. And he's like, buh-buh. Yeah. I'm going to take credit for that. Yeah. Okay. When it comes to structuring the majority of my carbs around training, does it actually work as far as body composition improvement wise? I know from experience it helps with performance, especially on 200 grams carbs per day. I heard Milos talking about a fat loss phase in the morning with little to no carbs in meals prior to training, then pre-intra post-workouts that all have carbs. And the final meal of the day, going back to little to no carbs, the idea was that you spike your insulin levels with food, which will help to drive the nutrients into the muscle that you train. The short answer is I do think it matters. Yeah. But also you spike your insulin by taking the insulin too. Yeah, exactly. Milos. Milos spikes his insulin by taking insulin. Oh, yeah. No, but I think me and Skip would agree on this because you started to allude to it that, yeah, you could definitely break your day up into fat-burning day zones and anabolism zones. I love the idea of pulling carbs out, especially if you're using compounds like clen and yohimbine throughout the earlier parts of the day, which is when you should be using them. You don't want to be taking clenbuterol at night, for instance, because it can disrupt your sleep. But, yeah, no, I think you could definitely cycle or structure your diet so that you have fat-burning regions of the day and then anabolism following the workout, refilling glycogen stores. And then I'll even go as far to say because you're more insulin-sensitive, due to the nature of the training, you could probably keep doing carbs for the rest of the evening. And I'm always someone that likes to save things for later, meaning I can make it through the first half of the day with no carbs. Let me get to my training, and then I get to have three carb meals afterwards. Like, that's a million bucks to me. If versus, I know some trainers or coaches might want to put carbs at meal one, carbs at pre-workout, and just carbs post-workout, and then maybe two more carb-free meals. To me, that doesn't seem as fun or as appetizing or whatever. I would prefer to do three carb-free meals, be super insulin-sensitive, insulin and carbs intra, and then carbs with meals post-workout and for the following. What do you got, Scott? Yeah, I mean, I'm pretty much going to agree with 100% of what he said. I just, around the workouts, I think it matters. I do think it matters with condition. You know, look, if you have a, let's say you have a low day, and you're not training, and it's a low-carb day, then spreading out those carbs throughout the day so that they're even, okay, cool. Yeah. But, no, put them around the workout. And, you know, I've said this before, Andrew knows this. I don't think you need, typically, a ton of carbs prior to training anyway because you're relying primarily on glycogen. Yeah. So, as long as you have glycogen and, or especially if you have intra and that's intra-carbs, then you should be good. The carbs should be around. Let me ask you this, Skip. Let's just pretend all your carb meals, you have meals, you have carbs at every meal of the day. What is your lowest carb meal? Like, in your perfect setup in your mind? Would it be pre-workout? If you have carbs in, oh, in every meal? Let's just pretend, like, a scenario you're prepping yourself and you had six meals a day. And let's just not even say you're not even using intra, regardless. Maybe you are, maybe you aren't. Well, I wouldn't have carbs before I go to bed. That'd be the lowest. Okay. Gotcha. Even maybe, depending on when I train, too, but I train midday. I'm, like, three meals, train, three meals. Okay. So, it might be meal one and the last meal of the day, and they'd be more concentrated through the others. If I'm going to pull carbs, you know, from that, it might be even from meal two. And then I would hit, you know, a little bit for meal three. I don't need a ton of carbs, though, prior to going into the gym. I'm going to stack them through the intra, and I'm going to stack them through the post-workout, and then post-post, probably. But where I'm going with this is that, for me, throughout, I think, all my bodybuilding career or whatever, as soon as I had some intelligence, was my pre-workout meal is probably going to be my lowest carb meal. Because I just don't want digestion going on. I want to get quick digestion, as empty of a stomach as possible. And I would actually differ from you a little bit. I like to put carbs into the last meal to try to get better sleep, to try to get a little bit more serotonin, and try to get a little bit of a better sleep. It doesn't always work out that way, obviously, with every prep, with myself or people. But that would just be my line of thinking, in terms of, because I'm with you, the carbs are eating that pre-workout meal. Like, they're not feeling that workout. I know people are like, oh, I just had a Chris Aceto muffin before this workout, and now I've got a Monster Pump, and I'm going to have a crazy workout. I think a lot of that is placebo effect of, I'm eating more, I should have a better pump, so I'm making myself have one. I get hungry fast, so I'm good with, and I digest fast food fast, too. I mean, it might be different now with the RETA. No, it's still the same. Like, I'll start going hypo in my workouts if I don't time my food up. So I'll have, for my clients, I'm not as big on putting a ton of carbs pre-training. Like, I would rather have that ton of carbs post-training. But for me, I can eat a ton and literally walk straight in the gym, and my stomach feels fine. Like, it's always been a phenomenon for me. I know we had to run. I know that we have to go. Skip's on a schedule. Before we go, I wanted to throw this up here real quick, Andrew, and tell us who this is. That's my man, Lucas Giannini. We just did the Oklahoma Pro last Saturday. It was my first time working with him. Started, like, mid-January or so. He had just come off a contest prep last year, so we didn't really have time to build his calories up. But this guy, you know, he's a warrior. He sadly lost his mother halfway through his prep shortly after finding out that they're pregnant with his first child. So it was a very emotional prep for him. But the guy's stoic. He's like a Brazilian Superman. And I was really happy with the condition we got him in and just how the whole prep turned out. So we're shutting it down for this year so we can focus on being a really good husband for his wife and their oncoming baby. I think due in four or five months. And then we're going to really hit it hard and do a bunch of shows next year. Nice. He strikes me as a taller guy. He's 5'9". 5'9". Okay. Yep. Yep. Yeah, he looks incredible here, man. He weighs like so he's one of the cases where like he was in shape at 220. What's he doing kilograms? He was in shape at like 225 pounds. Yeah. He was in shape at like 225 pounds. Yeah. And he had to be 212. So you can only imagine, you know, four ounce protein meals for a lot of the last stretch. Yeah. Zero carbs for a lot of the last stretch. You know, like Rachel was eating more than he was. And in over the last couple of weeks. It looks like it paid off. It's crazy from this most muscular to seeing him open up. Like he has such a wide shoulder structure, you know? I know. Right? It's crazy. That's crazy. That's a cool shot. Thick chest too. Real thick pecs. Yeah. Good shape. His training is so controlled too. Like if you want to talk about like perfect reps, someone, we should do a documentary on him. Like his rep are, I'm telling you, like just perfect hard contraction, three second down, like perfect hard, just repetition, repetition. There's no ego lifting with him at all. Hell yeah. Great physique. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. That skin. Holy shit. Sorry. Oh yeah. Like, right. Like, like I'm looking at him as we get better and better. I'm like, dude, your skin is amazing. Like the way it shines under these lights. I'm, I'm, I'm jealous. Yeah. You don't think about the skin and how much of a difference that makes and making someone's physique just pop and glow on stage. You know, we appreciate you guys tuning in. Thanks for watching. And if you are new here and you haven't subscribed yet, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. Plus hitting the subscribe button helps us out a fricking ton. Um, and also like, share, comment, all that stuff. It, uh, it really does help to boost our, our content and it's your questions that drive our show. So we'd love to get a bunch of good questions from you guys for the next time we record. Uh, so comment down below with that. Let us know, uh, what you think about this episode. And of course go to bodyberry.com to reach out to Andrew, go to team skip.com to reach out to skip, hit me up at mcdally diets at gmail.com and check out true nutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there, supplement source.ca for Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. I think we're all wrapped up with the Patreon questions. So stay tuned for a new Patreon thread where we'll be taking questions and thanks for all your support over there guys. And thank you for watching. We appreciate it having everybody here and for another episode of blood, sweat and gear, we will see you soon. Thanks guys.