 alignedlin, aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned aligned So this is glute with a 1 mil, 100 milligram per mil injection. This is what you get on the deltoid. Better overall blood levels from a glute shot with a higher concentration. The area of the curve is greater for glute over delt, and the concentration helps as well. So the question I have here, I haven't seen this, but what's going on here in terms of activity of those muscles? Glute muscle fibers are not different than delt muscle fibers, but the morphology of the muscle, the shape of the muscle, the size of the muscle, and the activity of the muscle are all different. Hey, what's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by Scott's book, BYOBBCoach.com. That's Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach. We'll have a link in the description to the book at eBay. You can pick it up there, and Scott will autograph it. He's sending it out to you. And you can also, of course, get the e-book at BYOBBCoach.com. We're also brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THINKNOW for 10% off of all your orders, which is a better deal than they used to give us. And I've got a commission-based thing going with them now. So it's cool to see you guys helping to support the programming through buying great supplements that are going to help you reach your goals. At the end of the day, that's what I really want is to see you guys reach your goals the best you can. Take the best supplements you can. And if you're in Canada, supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. I saw some highly branched cyclic dextrin over there for like $20 for a tub of it. They had it on a closeout deal. So get it while you can. Their sales change every week. Scott, we're going to revisit some cool stuff that we haven't talked about in a few years. I bet you there's a bunch of our listeners that haven't heard about this. This was your request. This is my request. I'm excited, man, because, you know, we see it written that Test SIP has a 10.5-day half-life. test e has a 7-day half-life. Test Prope is a 3. All this stuff. You open my eyes. And I think you're going to open the eyes of some of our listeners. You've got some research here. We're going to talk about half-lives and, as you called it, pharmacokinetics of AAS. Does that sound right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we're going to have to sort of extrapolate because you don't have these kinds of studies in a polypharmacy situation with someone who's been doing stuff for five years, right? Yeah. But there are some hints there. I got to dig into some things that I hadn't – that I had seen before, and now I kind of put them together and process them a little more differently. So I think I need to share my screen. All right. I love this stuff. I feel like I'm back in school or something when you share a screen. Let's see. Oh, it doesn't want to do that. All right. Let's see here. It has an option to share a presentation, but maybe you have to load it up to Riverside or something. Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. That would be cool. Maybe I'll try that. That'll be the next thing we'll do. All right. So you can see this. Now I'm going to go – this always gets me because I'm going to – I have two screens here. I have two. I have my laptop and then I have an external monitor. So – good. Now I can – you guys – you can see now just the – Just the presentation. Just the presentation. You guys probably can see my – our mugs too. So – Yes. Yeah. This is – there was – it was episode 103 – 102 where I went through the first couple of these slides. That was part of the 100, 101, 102 studies you should know or studies worth knowing. And you wanted to revisit this. You asked me like, hey, do you still have that? I'm like, yeah. Of course I do. Yeah. This all goes into the mastermind database, the musclemind database. So I kind of revisited this and I added a few things. And the subtitle there is Behind the Curtain of the Random Muscle Generator. And that's facetious. But the idea there is that some people respond to gear really well. Some people don't respond as well. And I've got a whole – another topic, another presentation on why you don't look like a pro. And there's numerous things that I'll maybe touch on here. We can talk about them if you want that are related to responsiveness to anabolic steroids or even TRT. That's where a lot of it's sort of been studied in the context, for instance, of prostate cancer and variations in the androgen receptor that are predictive of someone's risk for prostate cancer. The greater affinity you have in your androgen receptor, the more likely you are to have prostate cancer, unfortunately. Those sorts of things. But this is about mainly just injectables. And this is the idea of both the body and the drug. So we've got the pharmacokinetics, what the body does to the drug. And the pharmacodynamics are what the drug does to the body. So those are the two kind of main branches of pharmacology. Sorry. Some of that stuff is – I tried to – I got this all fancified up, but it's not all perfect. So first study here. And this is stuff we've gone through. So like you said, half-lives are just – this is what the half-life is. Like you look it up. You just Google it and you find the number, right? Yeah. This was a study where they had basically two variables that they changed. The ester. This is something we knew about, right? As well as for the decanoate ester. This is a nandrolone injectable that they tested here. Actually, I have to take it back. Three variables that were different. And the decanoate ester, they tested the muscle that it was injected in and as well as the concentration in the injectable itself. So first things first, everyone's looking at that top curve. That's for fetal propionate. If you go out to about five days, PP, like NPP, it actually is as you've got elevated blood levels for quite a while, longer than many people would suspect. And you've got an area under curve here that's very different. Initially, NPP goes up and comes back down, but decanoate has a much longer half-life. If you look at the y-axis there – let's see here. There it is. They change the scale here. Okay. That's why it's such a big drop-off. Yeah. Well, they went out to four or five days here. And then these segments used to represent one day and now it becomes five days. That makes more sense, man. Because I was looking at that. I was like, geez, does it just drop off after five days? So that's important to see. There's some discontinuity in the plot here. But yeah, but DECA is going to go up, increase, and it's going to stay out. And then it starts to drop off. Depending on which location it's injected, to some degree there's some variation as well as the concentration. So this is where things kind of get interesting. We've got three different – or different situations here for the decanoid ester. We've got two shots that went into the glute. All 100 milligrams every single time. One was in four mils. So that's more than a 3cc injection. It was probably a 5cc syringe to do that. That's this plot here. Right? So that's the diluted. And when it was more concentrated, we see a curve that's much higher. Wow. Okay. It's pretty substantial. Right? Interesting. If the injection was in the deltoid, we had – and this was with one mil. So this was the concentration. Then we're down at this curve. So this is glute with a one mil, 100 milligram per mil injection. This is what you get on the deltoid. So better overall absorption – well, better overall blood levels from a glute shot with a higher concentration. The area – yeah. The area under the curve is greater for glute over delt. And the concentration helps as well. Interesting. At least when we're comparing glute to glute, right? Yeah. Okay. So the question I have here – I haven't seen this, but what's going on here in terms of activity of those muscles? So like – I mean one thing I can say is if you look at over the course of when people age, upper body muscle is – doesn't get lost as easily as lower body muscle. Because the change in activity is greater there. If you're getting the glutes and you're not doing any – like you're not doing glute kickbacks on a regular basis or what have you, is that muscle less active than a delt where you're constantly moving things? You're sitting at your computer. You're reaching. You're grabbing things. You're eating. Your delt's more active. How does that change? And how does that change then when someone injects the muscle that they're maybe trying to sight enhance, right? Or the muscle that's active a lot in training? So that's another factor that I haven't seen because normally these – they do the injection and the person just goes about their daily business. So to what degree is this difference because of action, activity of that muscle throughout the day? Yeah. Just simply moving things because when a bolus is injected, it sits in that bolus. It sits in – hopefully it doesn't swell up, but that's where it will sit. And it will slowly dissipate and the rate at which it dissipates depends on the length of the esterified fatty acid. So – but also it depends – that's the one main fact, but it also depends on which muscle it's in. And glute muscle fibers are not different than delt muscle fibers, but the morphology of the muscle, the shape of the muscle, the size of the muscle, and the activity of the muscle are all different. So that's something to recognize is in this – at least with DECA, they didn't do it with NPP here, but at least with DECA, you get less bang for your buck if you do a delt injection versus a glute injection. Yeah. So someone who doesn't do glute injections because they can't anymore or someone who always does – they're trying to do site enhancement on their delts. That may have an effect for different reasons, but you may be getting less area under the curve, so to speak, at least if you do a DECA injection, right? So this is – Yeah. This is – And it's almost like – can we – I mean it's almost – it is half as much, half as much activity would you say, at least at like day one, two, three? Yeah, for the first four or five days. Yeah. It's definitely lower. I'd have to go and look. I could look the paper up. It's Minto et al. 1996 for someone who wants to dig that up. Okay. Easy to find. And they will put the – they will put total area under the curve. Yeah. And I suppose if I'm doing, say, four shots a week or whatever, so you're getting one that's a little bit less and one that's a little bit more. I don't know. It probably – you know what I mean? You don't – I've never noticed it in real life practice that like, you know, oh, man, I don't feel as much after taking that delt shot. It's hard to tell once you're really on. And when you're on and you've got a polypharmacy and you've got a super physiological load, right? Right. Yeah, exactly. You wouldn't notice these. There's so many things that might be changing. But this is a pretty substantial effect. Yeah. And like, you know, what if some people are injecting lats? Some people are in – and, you know, obviously quad injections are pretty common. Some people do calves, biceps, triceps. Yeah. So it's a factor, right, that could be playing a role. And there's some variability here. These are our error bars, for instance, here. Yeah. And so for this lower concentration gluteal value, the error bars aren't as big on the delt. It's pretty close. But error bars on the glute, if I do a negative error bar, there's a lot of overlap. This is probably not significantly different. Okay. The less concentrated glute versus the more concentrated delt. Yeah. Right? So this is interesting, too, that there's so much – there's much more variability there. So that's a factor. Kerry oil makes a difference. This is a study from 1999. They compared castor and tea seed oil. And here this is 1,000 milligrams of testosterone undecanoate. So this is what's used in TRT sometimes. So what we see here is a different area under the curve. Tea seed oil is much better than castor as far as a carrier oil goes. The curve is basically all the way out until like 50-plus days. We've got higher values for tea seed oil. But interestingly enough, castor oil has a longer half-life, right, but less value. So that shorter half-life – or sorry, it's a longer – you're like, oh, that's better. It's going to be hanging around longer, right? Yeah, but the half-life is relative to its half maximum value, which was substantially less, right? So that longer half-life doesn't behoove you if the peak values in the area under the curve are less. It just means you're getting longer of much less, right? Yeah. You're getting – for a longer period of time, you're getting less. Because if we look like let's take the half-life here, the tea oil is 22 days. So this is the half-life period. Here's where we are. If we go out at that same time, it's still got castor oil beat. Yeah. And we go all the way out to 34 days right here, the castor oil. So I'm right there. It's still got castor oil beat. Yeah, by even a larger margin now. It looks like, right? We've got larger area bars there too, interestingly enough. Oh, I see. But it's also a larger value, so that makes sense. Okay. Smaller values will have smaller area bars. Area bars are some relative percentage of whatever the value itself is. But we go out to this longer – you say, oh, castor oil has got a longer half-life. That's what I'd rather use. Well, the tea oil gives you – you get more bang for your buck. Even if you go out to that longer half-life. So the area under the curve value is what we're looking at. So castor oil is a very thick oil. Are you familiar with tea seed oil? I'm not. No. I hardly see it mentioned. It's interesting that it's not. I wonder if it's a thinner oil overall. I know there's a lot of companies using MCT oil now as super popular. And then there's all the different super solvents that are very thin too. So I wonder how that fits in. Who knows? Maybe it will start showing up on people's lists, right, after this podcast. So but that's something. And I haven't seen data where they've conveyed. Maybe Vigorous Steve might have some information on this that I'm unaware of. I bet. Yeah. For other carrier oils. But we know the carrier oils – I mean, in general, castor oil is going to extend your half-life as we see here. Yeah. It's so thick. That's the idea of the viscosity of the carrier oil will change the relative physical movement and the potential for that esterified testosterone or, in this case, testosterone and decanoate to make its way out. So it basically sort of entraps. If you have a fluid oil, carrier oil like MCT, it's moving around. It itself is leaving the injection site more rapidly. So with it, the testosterone and decanoate will also diffuse from there more easily because there's no carrier oil with which it is in solution, so to speak. So there's that. Hold on here. And then there's the human body. This is a cool study I've talked about many times. This was a testosterone enanthate, a 500 milligram injection. I thought it was 200, but it's 500 milligrams in this case. This is from Extra Metal 2011. And they looked at – so this is baseline testosterone. This is just the testosterone levels and nanograms per milliliter. Most of that by like 29, you'll get – oh, that's – never mind. It's nanograms per milliliter. We can just – yeah, we can just multiply that by 100 and we get up pretty high levels. I was thinking this was nanomoles per liter. So that's pretty high, obviously. This is super physiological. And – or it's multiplied, sorry, but yeah, by 100 for nanograms per deciliter. And here, if you have the right gene for this particular enzyme, phosphodiester A7B, the enzyme that cleaves away the enanthate, the enanthic acid from the testosterone, so freeze the testosterone to be active testosterone in the bloodstream, then if you have the right enzyme with the right activity in that case, you end up with about 60% higher levels two days post. You get a greater area under the curve simply because of the genetics you have for the enzyme that frees the testosterone from the fatty acid ester and makes it available. Is that something we can test for? Yeah. Yeah. No. I mean I don't – I wouldn't go with who's the guys, people who shut down – not my family tree DNA, the other one, the genetic testers. I don't think you can get them anymore. But yeah, you could get that tested, I imagine. For sure. Oh, by the way, I just looked it up and it said tea seed oil is comparable to olive oil, which I would believe is thinner than castor oil. Yeah. Everything – it can't be any thicker than castor oil. Right. Otherwise, it's just tar, right? Right. It's a solid at that point. It's just a solid, right? It's not even – it's not a liquid whatsoever. Whatever. So having this enzyme means that if someone is using 200 milligrams per shot on a TRT basis, let's say, then they're going to get 320 basically out of it compared to people who don't have that favorable – the favorable gene for this particular enzyme. So just one enzyme means you get a much greater area under the curve. So you can imagine then if someone has chosen the right concentration and the right muscle and the right curioil and they have the right genetics. The difference is when you sum all those things together and maybe there's some synergism, maybe not. But when you sum all those potential advantages together, you've got a situation where someone could get much more out of an injectable than someone who has all those things working against them. So the varbacocinetics are valuable on the – depending on the volume of concentration, the site of injection, the carry oil, the genetics of a sterified fatty acid removal. And there's also other things that we don't have – I don't have slides on, but I've talked before. The genetics of hepatic glucuronidation, salvation too. So once you've processed steroids in the liver, one of the – the phase one is – that's with P450 enzymes. And then the second phase is glucuronidation is one example that you – conjugation is the name of the process. And you add something to the molecule that makes it more water-soluble so that it can be lost in the urine. So three years ago when we first did this, I didn't know what glucuronidation was. And that's something I've learned about since in the clearance of estrogen. And I've talked about that with David a bunch of times. Right. Talk about not only reducing levels of aromatization with an AI, but also trying to clear estrogen faster through glucuronidation. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going back and forth between screens here. So yeah, so that's – that's something that does vary. SHBG, the promoter region for SHBG varies as well. So how much – how much you have bound versus free. Aromatase varies depending on body fat, age, for instance. And then the next thing is metabolic adaptation to chronic use. So a lot of this stuff is like – this is right out of the gate, right? They just go and they give people a 500 milligram injection or a 1,000 milligram injection, 100 milligram injection. And then they just look at what happens over the next month or a few days, right? Or weeks. Yeah. But what happens – and now the question is for the people who are listening who are like, well, shit, I started using gear years ago. Right. How much does this apply to me? And generally speaking, we would expect that enzymes of metabolism are typically induced by their substrates when it comes to clearing things and processing things. So we're talking about the phosphodiesterase 7B. Its job is to de-esterify. So the fatty acid could probably be oxidized and the testosterone could be cleared elsewhere through those phase 1 and phase 2 processes I just mentioned. But these sulfotransferases, the glucuronerosyl transferases, 5-alcidreductase, SHBG, all of these things are basically enzymes that are metabolizing or processing in a certain sense. These xenobiotics, these drugs that we're putting in the body or testosterone, but it's still a drug when you have – when it's esterified. Your testes don't make esterified testosterone that I know of at least. So these things are potentially then upregulated so the body adapts to an incoming xenobiotic or an elevation of, in this case, testosterone so that it can maintain its homeostasis. And bring you back down to whatever the normal level would be around which evolution has suggested this is where the body should be functioning. Right? Yeah. So like here's a more – I took this from a review by you. Not you but you is the person's last name. 2004. I love that last name. It's like who's on first? You. Who did that? You. No, no. Who? Whose paper is that? It's you. I know. I know. I know who I am but who did the paper? You? No, I didn't. It's me. Anyway, so the liver, these are potential areas where other drugs could come in, xenobiotics, right? Get processed in the liver and then upregulate CYP3A like CYP3A4, 5 or 7 that are involved with steroid metabolism. Sulfonation, glucuronidation, all these things we just talked about. But these processes also get upregulated by other drugs. Yeah, OK. And various other things you might be getting like – gosh, like hormone disruptive chemicals from plastics or from textiles. Mm-hmm. Right. Or shit, they put on – that appeal stuff that they put on fruit now. I don't know. I'm not saying anything particularly about that. I've looked at it a little bit. But there's all sorts of xenobiotics, formal chemicals, things we know we're adding, things we don't know we're adding that are impacting the liver. And then we have this sort of orchestra of the drugs that we're trying to get a bodybuilding advantage with. Yeah. That are then metabolized potentially differently. Yeah. Because of all the other stuff that the liver has to handle. So it's a processing plant, not just for the drugs that you put in but the drugs that you don't want to put in, the substances you don't want to put in. Yeah. So – sorry. There's some stray text in there. But anyway, this sort of shows what happens in the liver. Steroids come in. They come into the blood. SHBG and albumin levels can change. So all of this whole – this whole concert of things can potentially be altered by the different drugs you have, the genetics that you have, and the different drugs you're intentionally using, and the different compounds, the xenobiotics that might be coming in. So here's a study with testosterone undecanoate. So this one is used in – it's not used that often from what I've seen in TRT. People still use an enenthate, sepionate. But undecanoate does seem to have some advantages. And this is what you typically see when you get online and look at these like steroid calculators. Yeah, right. You type in the numbers and the levels just keep on going up and they should just climb forever, right? If you just keep on adding and you're taking in a larger dose, a large enough dose, and you're taking it more frequently than your half-life, it should just stair-step its way up until you just – you basically have nothing but gear in your blood if you did this for decades. So this is undecanoate and first injection creates a level, 1,000 milligrams. Every six weeks is a very long-lacking esser and it comes back down. The next injection comes back down again. This is the typical half-life. We saw this in a previous slide. It comes back down and then it comes up and we're starting to get to some sort of base. So it eventually kind of tapers off, right? Okay. So that in and of itself suggests there's some adaptation, right? The body is somehow putting the brakes on what would have otherwise been an ever-climbing rise in blood levels shot after shot. The fact that blood levels don't just keep on going up month after month or with every six-week dose suggests the body's handling that more efficiently. When you get enough elevation of the testosterone that there's an upregulation that puts the brakes on further elevation to some degree. So I wanted to look into this some more. And so here's kind of a cool study. They had – there's a couple of different situations here, but they were comparing 250 milligrams of test enanthate IM. So this is a weird dosing schedule, but this is – they do weird stuff sometimes. But this is what happens to test enanthate at that dosing schedule for like six, seven months, right? Okay. Levels are pretty steady. I mean obviously you're getting – every three weeks you're going up and coming back down. I think they're measuring that like a few days after the initial injection. Right. But it's – you reach a steady state, at least going out like seven months. No problem. And that's – I mean a seven-month-long study is a long one. You know, that's – you don't typically see that. The other – and there's an issue here, which I'm going to point out right now. The other condition, the other data that's plotted here was, again, 1,000 milligrams of testosterone on decanoid IM every six to nine weeks, right? So this is like – it's like, okay, you know, you can come in six weeks. You can come in nine weeks. There's some variability there. That was the parameters. We just need to get you in about, you know, a little less than every two months, right? And values go up and then in this particular study, the values are here and I read and read and I tried to find out any details about what may be happening here. Yeah. Right? Whether they change the dose, whether this is coming down for a biological reason, but things stay pretty steady here. You go out to about two – this is 24 months, so two years, 120 weeks, and things are pretty good, maybe starting to drop off there. So there is another study. This – same dosing regimen, six to nine weeks. So it's not very exact. And you see the same sort of scenario. They are up here. And then starting at about 100 weeks. So this is 120 weeks. Starting about 100 weeks, values start going down, right? There is some variability here. Some of this may be seasonal. I wouldn't be surprised if I did the back calculation. It's summertime or it's springtime. People are getting ready to go out on the beach. I got to go get my test shot. I feel like I need a little more. That might be part of what's going on here. A little more consistency. Yeah. They have some error bars here in terms of weeks too because these values are based on averages at a given particular week. So some of these values that are represented by this level, for instance, did not take place exactly at 272 weeks or whatever it is. Some of them were more like 268 weeks. And some of them were more here. So they plotted the values. But this is over an eight-year period. And what started to happen seemingly, and this is with – I think in this study the number of subjects changed too over time because that's the case. Some of these studies, I really don't – these are just in summary reports. So they don't really tell you all the details like what's the N here initially versus here. But at some point in time, these values, especially at the end, the eight-year period, we're down here at 10 nanomoles per liter. Right? So multiply this by about 30. We're getting kind of low here, especially compared to this. We're up at 17, 18. Values are lower. So the question I have is this – is there some adaptation happening here? So just as we suspect happens, eventually you do reach a plateau and things don't just continue to rise like they do initially. There is some asymptote that gets arrived when you use a – arrived at when you get – when you use a consistent dosing schedule. But is this due to an adaptation? And is actually at this point in time because this is higher than what we're seeing in large part after the two- or three-year mark. Right? And especially when we get out here many years into it. Is this because of subject dropout? Is this because they've changed the dosing schedule or the people who kept on coming in were the ones who maybe felt like their testosterone levels were too low? Is there a selection bias here? Like what the heck is going on? Or is this representative of an adaptation? Right? So that's hard to know. But this is the best long-term data that I know of looking at this potential – and humans looking at this potential phenomenon. But we have rhesus monkeys available to us as test subjects as well. Hey, what's up, guys? I wanted to take a break from the podcast and do something that would be a little bit different to keep you entertained while I do my True Nutrition ad. So I brought Maddie with me. I want to let you know – oh, she doesn't like the mic. I want to let you know that the code THINK now offers 10% off at True Nutrition. That's the main thing I want to tell you. I talked to the people over there. We got that set up. And now I get commission on order. So I get 5% off – or you guys get 10% off. I collect 5% commission. There's people coming. Don't you bark. There's a dog walking by. It's okay. You're all right. Anyway, I'm going to put a link in the description. And I think that if you use that link, it will put the code in automatically. But it's code THINK. It helps to support the show. You guys get awesome supplements in the process. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm going to place an order myself this weekend for the cookie butter flavored whey isolate cold filtered. Maddie, she's got nothing to say on that one. Anyway, that's it, guys. We appreciate you guys watching the shows. Appreciate you supporting the programs. Let's get back to it. We have rhesus monkeys available to us as test subjects as well. And they are primates. They're pretty close to us. So there's a study that was done where they gave – these poor rhesus monkeys, they gave them 50 milligrams of test e every two weeks. So they put on a hormonal roller coaster for 32 months. And this is the data that they have here. So, again, 50 milligrams every two weeks. And these three plots, I know they're kind of jagged, show measurements taken one day of testosterone, taken one day after the injection, three days after the injection. So these values are – these are kind of the peak values, right? And then 14 days after the injection. So when they – or when they were just before they're given their next shot, right? So these values are all much lower, right? So test went up one to three days. And then it came back down. And we see that just in these graphs. But interestingly enough, I can kind of read through this. The peak day one and day two levels were steady until just over two years, right? So we're getting here. This is every two weeks. So 52 weeks would be a year. This is 52 times two weeks. We get out to about this point here, somewhere in here, just over two years. And this kind of matches up with what we were seeing in these previous graphs. This two, three-year mark, two-year mark, something's going on maybe. And now we're still getting a peak at day one. But three days post, it's a lot lower. Yeah, no kidding. And the test testosterone level trough levels rose initially. So they were kind of going up for the first period of time. And then somewhere around here, things started declining. And by the time we get out – there's a little blip here. But by the time we get out to two and a half, three years, the lowest levels of test after that, 14 days after the injection, are lower for sure than they were initially in that first year or so. So this suggests after a couple, two and a half years, there's faster clearance. And gosh, what does that say for those of us that have been using like legit cycles for the past decade? And then go back to TRT and feel like, hey, I'm just not getting what I used to out of testosterone. Well, there you go. You know what? That's the question I just posed right there. You just asked the question for me. The old school gear was so much better than it is today. Is it really? Yeah. Or is it you? Exactly. Exactly. That's one of the things like – that's one of the questions that is raised here. So how would every two-week recovery – like the thing here too is like this is allowing – like it's two weeks. We know the half-life. I think it's roughly the same in rhesus monkeys. But obviously they're getting an elevation testosterone. It's coming really far down. And if I remember from the numbers from reading through the paper, they're basically back to baseline with the control group at 14-day mark. So they're getting a little bit of a need to de-esterify and clear the testosterone. But then they come back down and maybe for a few days they're at baseline. So they're getting kind of recovery periods in between, right? They're on a roller coaster. I mean the monkeys probably didn't feel great this way. Maybe they felt great for a few days and not so great for like this last four or five days. But that is categorically different I would say than a constant elevation with super physiological amounts. So what happens to pharmacokinetics, half-life, errant curve, testosterone, to estrogen ratio and pharmacodynamics when with a bodybuilder's TRT – hold on just a sec. Did I turn off the – No, I still see it. Okay. I just got rid of a little something that was in the way there. Super physiological stimulus is a higher level. So just doing TRT at 300 milligrams a week. Yeah. And doing your shots every other day or what have you, right? That does – that has – there's a different profile in terms of pharmacokinetics versus doing a shot in this monkey with the monkey. So I would imagine that if there's an adaptation that's going to be happening, it's going to be less stimulated by a very intermittent protocol like that versus a continuous constant stress of super physiological testosterone. Yeah. Where the body says, okay, we've got to put the brakes on this. And then we've got, as I mentioned a couple slides back, we've got other steroids that are competing metabolically for the antigen receptor, for clearance pathways, et cetera. So what do those things do in terms of elevating these clearance pathways? Because now we've got not just tests, but we've got the other xenobiotics, other things that might be further increasing our ability to clear things. But on the other side, double-edged sword perhaps, there's a potential of accumulation of toxic load, liver stress, that might impair this adaptive capacity. If you've gotten that far, you probably are, you could be so toxed out that you're not going to be making gains from the gear that you're on because it's too much or it's the wrong kind for you at least. So some closing thoughts on this. Steroid metabolism and how effective they are for you. The steroids, whatever formulation you have is highly complex. It's a function of genetic variability and all these things. 5-alpha reductase, antigen receptor, 5-HTB. Oh, that CAG should be next to the antigen receptor, not 5-alpha reductase. Sorry. PDE7B, the P450 enzymes, the ester, the muscle, the site, the concentration, the carrier or possibly activity of the muscle. Question is like if you massage, like a side question, if you massage a muscle to help with post-injection pain, and you're clearing the bolus, like that suggests you're getting rid of the irritant, you're getting rid of, you're freeing that steroid that would otherwise just dissipate, right? What do you do to the half-life? If you massage, if you like vigorously massage or apply heat or what have you to your injection sites? And what does that do to the area under the curve and how much you get from them? Yeah. So there's that. And then there's this idea of time adaptation to a chronic drug load. There's limited data here. It may take several years before the adaptation to seem. It seemed like just putting the grand picture with very limited data together is that at least with TRT-like injection schedule to test testosterone after a couple years, something's happening to the pharmacokinetics, right? And this explains how many times you heard this, Scott. Like bodybuilders are now retired. They feel like they need to be on like 300 milligrams of test to feel normal. Yeah, absolutely. And maybe a little bit higher. And if they don't test their blood weather, maybe they're getting good blood levels. Some of that could be that they've got some down regulation of the signaling, the pharmacodynamics. But it could be if they're not testing blood levels that they just need that much because they're so rapidly clearing things because their body has adapted to having been on for 15, 20 years or more. So there's this idea of, you know, perhaps there's a maladaptation too. If you've got accumulated toxicity, that could then impact, do think, like basically create this sort of this spiraling into worse toxicity. If you overcome the liver's, let's say, ability to detoxify something, and then you could end up with more toxic effects because you end up, you know, creating massive liver stress. So maybe greater side effects could sort of paradoxically create greater drug bioavailability, but not help you at all because you're toxed out already, right? So you don't have the anabolic, you don't have IGF-1 release, for instance, from your liver. You're just not in a good place to grow when you've got a toxic load that you're dealing with. Yeah. So polypharmacy is super physiological engine load. So as a reference, men produce like 10 to 20 milligrams of testosterone a day. I've seen the values as low as four in one study. Oof. Yeah. But these are not hypogonadal men in this case. So the values are pretty variable depending on what study you look at. But we're talking about less than 150 milligrams of testosterone a week. That's why TRT would be 100 in some cases or 150, 200 maybe. But as we know, total weekly milligrams of gear is going to be way beyond this in many cases. And then how are the pharmacokinetics and dynamics affected? That's the big question. And this first cycle effect, the thing you said, you know, maybe the good old days were so good because you've been on for so long. Yeah. And also related to that, how much is the enhanced effectiveness of having been off for a while simply due to the previous adaptations and clearance? And by that, I mean if you're on for five years and your body had upregulated all these processing mechanisms we just talked about, you come off for a couple of years. You've resensitized, but you also may have different pharmacokinetics. You may get actually more area under the curve. You may get more bang for your buck for the drugs because your body is not used to processing them as it once was. And then another question, just lots of posing questions here, but do epigenetic changes persist after years? So this is what epigenetics are about, right? You have some sort of a stress that is a highly relevant one for evolutionary reasons perhaps. And then the relative ability of genes to be upregulated or be expressed is improved by these epigenetic changes so that someone who has previous steroid experience might have a honeymoon period of four, eight weeks, right? But they have epigenetic changes so that that is gone pretty quickly. Whereas the first time when they're real honeymoon, they enjoyed greater elevation of injectables at least. That's what we're talking about here for a couple of years or maybe a year until their body finally said, okay, we need to put the brakes on this. This is just too much gear floating around in the bloodstream. Yeah. So I thought this was kind of cool information. I advertise for myself here. I do seminars. People like this shit. I'd be happy to do seminars. Oh, hire Scott for a seminar. Bring him out to your gym. Like seriously. Every seminar that I've ever been to that you've done, I've walked away with something. Some of those seminars, Scott, were, God, you know, five plus more years ago. And every single one of them, I can think back and there's been at least a few things that really stuck with me that I still now apply today or have altered the way I coach today or the way I apply a certain compound, you know? Yeah. That's what it's all about. That's it right there. We're training. It's a huge win. A couple things, man. I'm happy. Hey, let me ask you a question. So I mentioned, you know, glucuronidation is something that I kind of dove into in the last two couple years. Looking at it from the perspective of clearing estrogen so that we may not need as much AI, you're posing it in the context of androgens here as being a factor as to how your androgens are going to build up. If we are better at clearing estrogen, are we also better at clearing androgens? The sequence of events you're talking about is, let's say, just take to testosterone. Testosterone is aromatized estrogen and then it gets cleared. Right. So this is when it gets complicated and fun. And I'm no expert here, but you've got this massive network. Scott likes to start conversations. Yeah. I'm no expert here. It's a bunch of stuff that only 10% of – we get 10% of it. Yeah. But it's the truth, really. There are people who have spent their entire research careers looking and understanding this stuff. So I have a very superficial level compared to people who are really experts. But testosterone itself, before it's aromatized, could undergo glucuronidation. Yeah, okay. After it's been processed in the liver, right? Okay. Yeah, through the phase one enzymes, the P450 enzymes. And then it could be glucuronidated and then lost. It could end up a different place. But you might think the urine, it could actually up the feces. Or the testosterone, before it makes its way to the phase – I mean, actually, aromatase is kind of like a phase one enzyme. But it could then be then aromatized and then estrogen would be processed in and of itself and glucuronidated. Okay. Yeah. So you have – the big way to think of it is you've got potential fates of testosterone. This is in one of the other presentations I give. I thought about including some of this basic stuff initially, but we've been talking for forever. But testosterone can be 5-alpha reduced. Yeah. DHT, it can be aromatized. Estradiol. And then you've got – and it can go to – there's various other androgens it can be metabolized into, right? Yeah. But then you have different fates of DHT. You have different fates of estrogen. And then you have the fates of testosterone. It doesn't go those two routes. So it's not directly – glucuronidation isn't directly happening to estrogen or to testosterone. It can, absolutely. Oh, okay. It would happen to the modified testosterone that isn't considered estrogen. Right. Okay. Yeah. But that's already been through the first phase. Right. So that first phase has to happen. And then whatever is available after that first phase then can be better eliminated, more effectively eliminated. It's a methylation at the sixth carbon, I think, through P450. So aromatization is at carbon nine, I think. Someone is going to threaten me. Not that you know as much about this, guys. Yeah. Anyway. So all these – I have a picture. Actually, it's a slide. We can pull it up for one. I left the slide in there. I'm going to go look now because I want to see if I was wrong. All right. Now that's – 19 or – It doesn't matter. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. Nine. I'm going to try to squeeze something else in here, Scott, too, today? Yeah, it is nine. Yeah. It is nine. It is nine for aromatization. Yeah. Oh, I nailed it. Yes. I got a jeopardy point. You still got it. You still got it. So, yeah. So you take the testosterone and then it can be converted, DHT, estrogen, and then those things can then be converted into something that could be glucuronidated. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So you can go through door – you can go through door one as testosterone or go through door two as DHT or go through door three as estrogen. And then eventually the next door in those rooms would be glucuronidation potentially. Got you. Got you. Yeah. And there's dynamics as to whether you – well, sulfenation happens or glucuronidation happens or what have you. So it depends on what you're left with after the – with the molecule you started with and after the phase one enzymes have had their way with the molecule. So – All right. Yeah. Cool. Did you want to cover – I know we had a couple other things that you had pulled out here. Was there something else you wanted to talk about today? Oh, for today – you know, I was working on that other presentation but I don't have – we wouldn't have time for it anyway I don't think. Yeah. No. I don't have a slide. The other one that we were talking about, big, big, bigger one? Oh, the bigger project? Oh. You were talking about that? No. That's not Radiate either. Okay. No, no, no. I knew that wasn't ready. Yeah. All right. Yeah. All right. Cool. Well, I think we could just call it here then. That's probably good, man. Okay. Yeah. And let's hear some questions coming through on the chat. I haven't seen – are we live? We're live. Okay. And we've just been hanging and people basically were just relaxing with us. One person had a question that we asked on drugs and stuff already and I told them that that one was going to be out on Monday. And I don't think it was really in the wheelhouse here for this show. Okay. About like minimal effective DECA for joints and stuff like that. It's more of a Dave type topic. You know, there was a question on professional muscle that I actually responded to like – Yeah? Yeah. What was that? There's a study out there. On this question, there's a study out there. Oh, okay. Yeah. I think it was 100 milligrams. I posted the study like – there was – people used varying amounts and they made some subjective measurements of reduction in joint pain. Okay. And so there's a study out there. Dave's probably aware of it, but it's out there. It kind of answers this question directly. We guessed. He said I think 50, maybe 100. I said 100, but more is always better. Yeah. 300, Dave. 300, Dave. You got to go 300. No. Hold on. I'll look it up. Oh, okay. Let's see here. Minimal effective DECA. And thanks for everybody hanging with us on the live stream today. Surprise. It's muscle mines. Maybe I haven't. I love hearing the birds at Scott's house. Ah. It was very tranquil. I know. It's so nice back there. Oh, it's somewhere buried in here. I may not be able to find it unless we want to wait forever. That's all right. Yeah. Let's just call it good here. We'll leave on a high note. Okay. As George Casanza would say. I like it. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. As I mentioned, byobcoach.com. That's Scott's book. You can get the e-book there. I'll put the link to the hardcover. So Scott generally sells the hardcover through Amazon, Barnes & Noble. But right now, he's got a few copies that he's putting up on eBay so that he can sign them. Seven left. Okay. Seven left. And he'll sign them for you guys. So definitely jump on that. It really is a great book. It will take you through figuring out, putting together a plan for your offseason, literally through the day of your contest. And beyond that, into the rebound again. So you'll learn a lot. If you feel like you picked up a lot from this show, you'll pick up even more from the book. It's definitely worth it. Especially for somebody who can't afford to pay for a coach. Or you just want to do it yourself. I think it's a great way to give yourself a leg up on that. Of course, check out truenutrition.com and use our code THINK over there. They've got great supplements that, like I said at the beginning of the show, I suggest them because I want you guys to reach your goals. We had somebody on Patreon ask, what are some good joint supplements besides the stuff that I hear you guys mention for advertising? I'm thinking, I mention it because I believe in it. I believe in collagen. And I've mentioned that specifically because it's something I believe in. True Nutrition wasn't like, we've got to move 20 kilos of collagen this month, guys. You guys have to promote it for us. They never say to do anything. I just tell you guys about the stuff that I truly do believe in. And I believe that hydrolyzed collagen is one of the best joint supplements that you can get. And use our code THINK over there. We have a new affiliate. That amino company is no longer around. There's a modern amino company that you can go to, which I won't break down here on YouTube. But we do have a code for them. So reach out to us on other areas, Instagram, the audio podcast app, the Facebook group. You can find out more about that. And of course, supplementsource.ca for Canadians, guys. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. Scott, thank you for your time, man. Like, this is so cool. Like I said, all the way years back, man, you know, listening to you talk from since 2016, I've learned so much from you. My whole outlook on training has evolved. And at first, man, I wasn't really down with the progressive overload and the high frequency. I wasn't down with high frequency. I'm going to be honest with you. Yeah, yeah. You and Jordan were talking all about it. And I was like, yeah, I don't know about all this high frequency. Dante was sort of higher frequency, too, than at least the bro split. I didn't do that, though. Yeah. I was doing more Meadows, creeping death type plan. We trained back on Wednesday. We trained chest on Tuesday or Monday. You know what I mean? That's just the way it worked. Like once weekly, though. Yeah. Oh, that's what I meant by the bro split. Like the pro split, bro split once a week. Yeah. Yeah. We were doing more of that. Yeah. So it took me a year and a half of listening to you talk before I actually gave it a try. And guess what, man? I did it for just chest. And my chest blew up over the course of a year. And I was in a deficit for nearly that whole year, too. And I came out of that year with a much better chest than I ever had. So that led me on the path, man. Yeah. I had this upcoming thing is pretty interesting. This talk I put together on the law of diminishing returns and do advanced trainees still have some room for improvement, so to speak. And the research is some – I found an interesting meta-analysis that I haven't seen people talk about. Okay. Part of people – part of what – one of the main findings they have is a really interesting one because it kind of shoots a hole in some of the research that's out there. Okay. We wouldn't have time for it. It would take like an hour if we started today or so. Yeah. So, yeah, that's going to be fun. We're going to – we'll talk about effort and logbooking and progressive overload and that sort of stuff. Okay. Well, I'm going to look forward to that one. And I found the DECA thing. It was a study – who was it? And the first author is Tatum, T-A-T-E-M. And these were participants using 200 milligrams to test SIP a week and then they added 100 milligrams of DECA. Okay. And a good number of them found – there was some variation but that's basically the protocol. A good number of them found reduction in joint pain. Okay. Not that I'm saying you should do that but the study is literally for the guy who's like, okay, I'm on TRT. I got joint pain. Could I use DECA? I think there are better things that you can do for joint pain before just adding steroids and DECA has its negatives. But if you're dead set on doing it, that's a study that – it doesn't say that 50 won't work. Yeah. It doesn't say that you need – wouldn't need 120 to do this. But there are also other avenues. Should you use BPCs? Should you use like the joint product that they have on True Nutrition? Dante's – That's a great formula too. Yeah. I put a friend on it not too long ago and she's in her 70s now and she's like, this stuff is amazing. Yeah. It hits everything from all the angles. What's it called? UC2? Yeah. Oh, it's got – Joint Flex? Yeah. Or joint – Yeah, it's got UC2 in it. I think so. So you get – if you use regular hydrolyzed beef collagen with it, then that's going to give you type 1 and type 3 collagen and then UC2 is in that product. Plus, it also has like a full dose of curcumin, like 400 milligrams, I think, of curcumin in it. So that's going to help with inflammation. It does have all the other like things like MSM, chondroitin, all those things that help to also put water in the joint, you know, to soothe the pain. So it has – it kind of hits everything from all the angles, inflammation, adding fluid, and actual materials that will help it to rebuild. Different collagens – I mean, it's interesting because there's literature suggesting that they will end up where you would hope them to. And then Stu Phillips just posted a study. He doesn't believe in it at all. Stuart Phillips is a main guy looking – he's done like some of the basic work back in the day with Tipton, for instance, who did a lot of the early protein synthesis studies. And he's not a fan at all of collagen for helping with protein – muscle protein synthesis at least. Or the idea of it getting into connective tissues. Yeah, I don't know because I'll tell you what. It's mixed data. But anecdotally, I can tell you this, that when – so I've discovered like when I tore my supraspinatus, I was able to recover, I'd say quite rapidly. And of course, it wasn't the only thing I was doing. But here's what I noticed is that when I've used growth, my hair would grow faster. My nails would grow faster. And I'd say to myself, okay, yeah, I feel like, you know, this is a good sign to me. My growth is working. I have to trim my nails twice as often. And there's something happening here internally. And I noticed all of the exact same side effects when I started collagen. Plus, I did get improved recovery. Like I, you know, I also did all the physical therapy for my supraspinatus. I, you know, was using BPC as well. But I feel like the collagen gave me the bricks to allow the, you know, all the other work to actually happen. And then when my mom started using it, she literally started reverse aging. Her – within like two months, man, she started using a scoop a day. I was like, just take it, mom. Don't ask questions. Here's a five-pound bag. You know, it's expensive. Two hundred and fifty, you know, two hundred bucks I'm spending on her. And she told me that the girls at her jazzercise class were – they're all like in their thirties. She's about 70 now. The peer review of her jazzercise class. Yeah, the peer review of her jazzercise class. All these women in their thirties, you know, they have like their first baby. And they were saying like, Betty, what are you doing? Because you look so much younger. Like what's going – she said a number of the girls were just fawning over her. And she did. She started reverse aging. Her beautician said she had to cut her hair. Her hair is growing so much faster. And then to top it off, she had a woman she didn't even know ask her at the checkout line when she's at the grocery store. And she said, excuse me, you know, what's your beauty regimen? What do you do? Because you just are glowing. And so, man, I'm telling you, just the experiences I've had personally, hearing that from my mom and believing in Dante. Dante is a big believer in collagen. And, you know, I do have a level of trust in what Dante says. That, you know, if he says it's legit, I'm going to believe in him because I know that he's put in his due diligence. And I'm not saying he's got to always be right, but he's been right about a lot of things, especially when it comes to the human body and health. So I'm going to lean into what Dante says versus somebody who's looking at a study. That's just well, I mean, I'm looking at I'm looking at the studies and the studies are mixed from what I know. I'll look into this. This is Luke Van Loon's. I looked it up. It was Stu Phillips who posted it that I saw the day. Luke Van Loon has done a lot of this stuff and it was muscle connected tissue protein synthesis. OK. And I haven't read the study, but there's a difference. Like your mom, like if you have someone who's got a vitamin deficiency and you replete that. Yeah. Yeah. Huge. So who knows what what may have been missing from her diet? Absolutely. I've considered that, too. I don't know. She got a ton of protein to begin with. Well, there you go. So that's what I'm guessing. Yeah. I'm trying to poke holes in my own theory here. Yeah. But that said, man, it's like, yeah, I don't know. I feel like it's been beneficial. And if there's one supplement based off of my experience that I would have started 10 years sooner, it would have been collagen. Maybe I'll look into that. I'll put that in the list because, like I said, the idea is that the collagen will end up in the connected tissue where you see those amino acids. And there are studies that have suggested that's the case. This study, I don't know what the parameters are. It's all the question that's answered in this study on muscle protein synthesis and people who already have plenty of protein. Let's take this scenario. This may be in the study, but I'm just going to imagine that it might be. You've got – you're meeting your protein needs even if you're a resistance-trained person and then you add collagen. And you may find on average that it doesn't do a dang thing for those individuals, right? Yeah. But you also are – you're fighting something in your body that's – right, that we talked about when you got sick that might elevate your need. This was before that. Even before that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I tore my supraspinatus a year before that. Okay. So this is – but still a scenario – in that scenario, you have an – so that's an injury scenario. Yeah. You've got localized elevated protein synthetic need in repairing connective tissue. That's what you do with muscle training. That's what you do with muscle training, with training your muscles. You've created elevated need there. So you need more of the proteins that are specific for that. Every muscle is actually an organ. Yeah. Yeah. What does the study actually tell you and what are the parameters of the study? And that study, I haven't read it. But like the study looking at protein synthesis connected to your protein synthesis in skeletal muscle, in many instances, I can see where it has no effect. I can see that too then. But in your cases, in your case with your supraspinatus or with your mom, I can totally see where it has an effect. And that's why the study is – so the questions that are asked are different. The question that your mom had or the problem that – the situation your mom had is different than what these subjects were subjected to in their study, for instance. And then I would wonder, so what would be the population besides, say, an injured bodybuilder? What about a bodybuilder that isn't injured but has been – how many bodybuilders don't have fraying and damaged tendons? You know what I mean? Yeah. You know, all of us. Put us under an MRI or, you know, ultrasound. There's going to be fraying on just about everything. Yeah. It's difficult, like, to measure to go in. Like, if you've got a damaged tissue, especially in a human, you're not going to go and biopsy that to try to look at what's going on, you know, because you're just damaging it again. Yeah. So there's limitations there. So that's the – so the important thing is you take – this is – like, you have your mom's report and the people at her jazzercise class. You have your report. And then there's these guys who are doing something in the lab. That's another report. And it's got its relevance. And you have your relevance. And her stuff has her relevance. The other studies have their relevance. It's different scenarios, different subjects, different conditions. And you have to say, OK, you know, this person was eating oranges, you know, in a tropical climate where it was 115 degrees and 80 percent relative humidity. And he felt great in the oranges. This other person, you know, didn't want to eat an orange because he's in the Arctic and he's in an igloo. Right? And he just wants food. Like, there's so many things that could be different and you're going to get a different result because of the parameters. Yeah. The other thing, too, that's interesting about the UC2 that's worth noting is the undernatured collagen type 2 supposedly – last I've looked, this is the going theory on this – is it acts differently than collagen peptides would in general where you're providing the building blocks for the tissue. The idea is that there's kind of a subclinical reactivity in those joints that's of an autoimmune nature. I'm not saying everyone who has sore joints has an autoimmune disease. But we have rheumatoid arthritis, for instance, as an example of this sort of thing. Right. Is that there's subclinical or non-diagnosed autoimmune issues that are creating a chronic inflammatory scenario in those joints. And the situation is that the joint is creating inflammation in response to its own collagen proteins as one particular candidate. Yeah. That's a large component of your immune system. And it goes through these particular immune cell concentrated areas called Peyer's patches. And the Peyer's patches are like gatekeepers for the immune system to say, okay, what is xenobiotic, what is foreign, and what's okay? And if you take that in and it comes through the immune system in the Peyer's patches, you retrain the immune system to say, hey, UC2 is cool. Undenatured collagen is cool. That's not a problem anymore. And then you train your immune system to stop being reactive to its own connective tissue collagen. And then you limit the joint inflammation because you've reconditioned the immune system by taping it, taking in the UC2. So it's a completely different mechanism supposedly with UC2, which is really fucking cool. You're like basically recalibrating your immune system, the idea is at least, to the connective tissue, the collagen, that it's been falsely immunogenically reacting to and causing inflammation. So it's a totally different deal with the UC2. So that's why he's got it in there is UC2. UC2, you wouldn't use like, oh, I got collagen peptides. I don't need UC2. UC2 is a totally different ballgame. Oh, you're muted for me at least. Yeah. There we go. Sorry about that. I just looked to – because I couldn't remember the name for sure. It's JFlex over at PreNutrition. Yeah, JFlex. And it has UC2 in it. It also has – it was Mariva. Mariva. That's the curcumin. Yeah, that was the curcumin that it had and some vitamin C and some other stuff in there too. Yeah, it's a good product. It is. Yeah, I got a lot out of that. I used that for like three months to start my collagen cycle out. It was three months or it might have been six actually. But it made a difference I think. Anyway, we appreciate you guys tuning in. And I've got a bunch of studies, by the way, Scott, on collagen. So I'll send those over to you if you want to check them out. Yeah, I got a bunch too. They're pretty mixed. I'm going to read this one that just came out. But yeah, it's – people are asking different questions. It's the funny thing. It's like what vehicle should I get? And the guy who has a truck and he's like, I got a pickup truck. That's what you need. It's like, no, I want to – Yeah, it's four by four. I can get through the snow. But I live in Florida. Exactly. I need mud truck, right? Or I live in a big city. I need to have something small. I can park in the parking garage. Like there are use cases, right, when it comes to this stuff. So we tend to black and white and compartmentalize and that sort of thing. And science also, it gives you in the context of that question, the idea is to take something where there's a wide distribution of answers and to say we can say with some probability that the answer is going to be yes in this use case or no depending on what the results suggest. And we say that with some level of probability and certainty. It's like, OK, well, this is how it is, black and white. It's like, no, that's not it. And that's what I appreciate about you, Scott, because a lot of times in our space with fitness, that's what you get is this now proves that this thing doesn't – or this is how you need to train. So eight reps, no more than eight reps. Yeah. No less than eight reps. Right. Eight reps. Yep, exactly eight reps. Yeah, that's the new thing. So I have some thoughts on that for maybe the next one. All right, awesome. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thank you for hanging with us. And for another episode of Muscle Minds, we'll see you soon. Adios.