 a turetsetsetsets tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur tur What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK, you can get your lab work done by Dave at evalbloodanalysis.com. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. They're available in the US and the UK. They've got great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. Get your thrombomax, helping me to keep my blood from getting too thick. And we are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein, creatine, intra-workout, all that stuff. Last but not least, supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on short-dated label change products, plus all your normal priced stuff too. Dave, last week's episode was freaking off the charts, brother. Yes, it seems to have been rather popular, doesn't it? We're matching too today. Look at that. Well, sort of. I mean, like, yeah, we're in the same like family, color family. Well, I don't get THINK BIG t-shirts. You're too big. That's why. Yeah. We got to get you on your cardio and I'll say, God, for real, I have trouble with getting three X's. I think we do have one available now. I don't get trips into the desert to play with things. Oh, yeah. That was fun, man. That was, dude, I had a lot of fun. It was good. I just got back from the Olympia and I got to hang out with one of our listeners, Diego. He has a really cool collection of things. But hey, that's a whole other topic. Things. That we took out into the desert and we, yeah. So listen, man. So we had Janosik or as he pronounces it, Janosik. Did you catch that? We are all pronouncing it very, I think, American here. And, you know, he talked all about what we're basically calling is the collapse of the steroid market. So I thought we would kind of follow up on that today and then get back into our normal format of doing Q&A. We have a lot of questions from the last couple episodes that people have left us. Dave, what are your thoughts overall on that episode and about the conversation we had with Jano or Yano, as he may call himself? I, I had, you hear bits, you hear stories. And I remember some bits. I remember him first starting and I also remember him being online and getting a lot of shit and trying to defend himself. So, you know, some of the stuff that he was telling from the story, I remember it happening and I remember some of the truths behind it. I was always told it was a lab tech at a uni that was doing the testing. Yeah. And it turns out there was some truth in that, though it wasn't him. His friend was a lab tech and he was doing the testing. I hadn't realized it got so big. And I mean, he seemed fair enough. I know some people have asked or questioned virility in, in the comments under the post. I can't really comment on that because I haven't got enough information to really have an answer one way or the other. It was very little though. Overall, I think it was a pretty overwhelmingly positive response that we got. And I did get some follow up to just a little bit of follow up. You know, I tried to put a finger on what was going on. And I, I found this, I'm going to show it to you here on a screen share. So I, for the life of me, Dave, I am not going to be able to pronounce the name of these companies. But what it really came down to was, move this out of the way here. There we go. You've got to have a go. What's that? You've got to have a go. Oh, no, you, you try that. What's, how do you? Guangxiao Chengu Chemical Company. There you go. Thank you. Very good. Very good attempt. Spoken like a native. Yeah. And then how do you say these guys' names? Because these guys, these are the two guys that were the representative. Huang Haojun and Huang Zanpeng. Damn. I think you freaking nailed it, man. I don't know. It might have been. So here's the deal. You know, we, I saw some comments that people were like, yeah, man, you know, they're just, they won't let us have PEDs in the country and stuff like that. And that's what this is all. It's not anything to do with PEDs. These guys were producing precursors to create a word that rhymes with, um, what word, what word rhymes with that? Um, let's mentanol. It rhymes with mentanol. You would have been better saying that, um, the manufacturing sale of third line to Americans. Third line to Americans. What does that mean? Read it. Third line down. Oh yeah. Well that's already getting picked up. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, yeah. AI is already reading what we have on the screen, but yeah. So the deal is, is that these guys were creating precursors. They were basically selling them directly through that. They had a company called Chemex, uh, in Tampa, um, FBI took these guys out. This is a press release from September 3rd, 2025. From what I understand after these two major arrests, there were several more big arrests. Um, it had to do with also the, the, the drug, um, uh, rhymes with, um, flank, I guess. Uh, and basically nasty stuff that I do believe is a big part of destroying, like destroying our country, you know, or destroying Western civilization. Question. Yeah. Dave answer. Uh, did you just say that that article, they were arrested September 25? Yeah. That's post the problems. Yeah. So I'm not sure exactly how all that fits together, but there were previous arrests to the, I saw arrests that happened, similar arrests, guys that were selling similar precursors in November of 24, which would line up. Right. And so I think that there's been a, just a complete shutdown. And from what I understand, um, there are a bunch of chemists that have gone down with this too. So. Yeah. The bit that confuses me is if a lab is licensed. Now the, the, the basic story, which we haven't said actually is that these shared a common precursor ingredient with the production of Primo and Masteron. Well, that's just one part of it. Right. Right. But when we looked into that, we could, we were struggling to find the common precursor. Yeah. Uh, but the other thing is if, if a company is licensed to produce Masteron and not licensed to produce the other stuff. Yeah. Then being, it wouldn't stop other people from producing the Masteron if that occurs, cause they'd have a license to hold that chemical in the production of that final product. For example, uh, we do blood testing at a company that has gunpowder. Okay. And we have to go up and blood test for iron contamination and stuff. Oh. Now they hold a license to hold large amounts of gunpowder, but what they actually make is these little explosive charges that go on railway tracks that go bang when a train goes over them to warn the train driver that is getting close to some railworks. Okay. So it's nothing to do with weapons, but it's the same raw ingredient, but because of what they do with it downstream, they're licensed to use it. So that same principle would apply in manufacturing of a chemical. You know, if you have a license to use that precursor in the manufacturing of that chemical, it doesn't have an issue. So the bit that's confusing me with all this is if it is the opioid link that's the problem, that shouldn't affect the manufacturer of AAS. What I think has happened though, is that the major manufacturers are shut down. So can somebody else step up? But then why hasn't that affected the pharmaceutical trade of AAS? Cause China makes all the raw for them as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. There's enough, there's bits, but there's nothing that seems to quite tell the full story. And it's, I mean, or maybe it just, I'm completely wrong, which is very, very viable in this. But there's bits that just don't seem to fit and make sense to me. Well, we can't mention names, but I will say this. There are, okay. So since we've talked about that, kind of digging into some of my resources, I've heard that there are companies that are operating out of China that have procured or are working on procuring the correct licensing to be able to manufacture. Those same companies are companies that we do see on the UGL market. I think that there is the demand, right? And I wonder if it's a matter of getting the supply, needing enough time to get those things into operation, just because there's a shortage doesn't mean that it's automatically going to get met. You know what I mean? I imagine that there's companies in India that are ramping up places in Turkey that are ramp. You know what I'm saying? They're probably ramping up production, but man, we had been spoiled for so long with a market that had been incredible. Some of these guys that are probably that are watching now, they probably have never seen it. The bad days like we have, you know, years back. Hmm. I don't know. I just, I don't know if it just seems to properly fit that every time we look into this and we look at it, I always end up with more questions and frigging answers at the end of it. And it's just like, I still don't get right with this. It just doesn't sit right. Yeah, no, I'm, I'm with you a hundred percent, man. And, and, and thank you to everybody who did watch that episode. I feel like we got overall a lot of positive feedback. One comment irked me. The guy was like, man, you guys are just creating fear mongering. That's all you're here to do. You know, that's all you're doing. Well, I love the channel. And I kind of felt like, dude, cause we, I don't know. We just asked, we just asked questions, but the thing is when we pushed him on master Primo quality, he said he hasn't seen a change in the quality. He said, what's out there's good. Yeah. Yeah. Well, what he's seen. So it doesn't mean that, no, he doesn't see everything, obviously, but not only that, but he, he doesn't know if it's supposed to be masked. How many of those tests were supposed to be masked and turned out to be like, you know, a test probe, you know, and it ended up being testy or something else. Like, yeah, you got a perfectly good batch of testy here 500 times, but it turned out like that was supposed to have been Primo, you know, doesn't account for that. That is true. Yes, that is true. But yeah, yeah. He, the guy called us out on that specifically. He was like, you're pushing him to ask these ridiculous questions that, you know, and he's telling you that there's no problem. I honestly, man, I just really wanted to know. So one person also did say that, that he has an invested interest in the collapse of the industry, because that would definitely mean that more people would pay for tests. What do you think of that? Well, if, if we take for what he said about how his business split works, then anabolics are a small portion of his financial revenue. And so a lack of anabolics in the marketplace isn't helping him. A lack of confidence in the anabolics in the marketplace would potentially drive more testing. Yes, but it's only 20% of his business. So, I mean, it's still enough to hurt, but his business is predominantly, and by the sound of things, his business growth over the last three, four years has been down to the peptide market, which is, is growing as a market as well. So. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, we'll see how it goes. My, my sources tell me that there is still production. Production is strong in China, but it, there are definitely aspects that have been dramatically shut down. And talking to one source, he procured, I think it was like three or four packages of raw test e and even those were no good. I've seen lists where like everything is on backorder right now. But then, like I said, I'm being told by other sources that there are still people that are producing. It's, it's not a problem. So I just think the road's going to be rough for a little while here. You know, Dave Ryan comments, what you got there, Ryan. Oh, let's get Dave approach. Arch your hashtag. Oh man. All right. Anyway, like I said, we do have a bunch of listed questions and we appreciate you guys hanging with us. We probably have some new, new people here that are watching the show today. So thank you for joining us. Dave is an expert witness for the UK court system. Uh, he's also an educator to the police and military in the UK. And, uh, I've been coaching for about 15 years now. You know, we're here to just help share our, our education and experience with you guys. Um, and we do a lot of listener questions. So what do you say we just jump in and do what we do, man? Yeah, that's fine. There is a question. Actually, it's just popped up in the feed. Um, all right. You want to take that one first from Oliver? Um, no, we'll go back to that one in a minute. Let's get some of the ones that we're owed, but let's make sure we catch that before the end. Okay. All right. So, um, also too, I want to give credit to, uh, incomplete archive eight. Um, I had done a bunch of the digging in found that, that treasury sanctions report. I also found mugshots of some of the guys that have been arrested. Um, I'll see if I can flash them up on the screen here in post-production, but he had also discovered a lot of the same stuff about the news in China. And he commented with that on, uh, the last episode. So shout out to you, my friend, incomplete archive eight. Um, first of all, love the podcast. This is from Christopher. He says a question, um, uh, from an older show, perfect pairs. Do you remember that one day? We created like a perfect pairs episode where we talked about what would be perfect pairs of compounds. So my favorite combo was test, Deca and mast and anadrol. I like dbol, but, uh, the aromatise is hell. Uh, so anadrol it is orals four to six weeks on and off. Um, I would have thought that Dave would have put in mast as well into that combo. Do you guys see, uh, any problems with this stack? I have run it several times and mast helps me with estrogenic sides, at least, uh, it's serum wise. Um, and it keeps things, uh, between my legs working better. Best regards, Christopher, 46 year old from Sweden. Uh, risky taking gear over there. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Right. Man. Yeah. They're a bit, they're a bit hot potato on that. So the cycle was test Deca mast and anadrol four to six weeks on and off. So six, you know, I for first four, then four, then four more. I'm not a fan of, I have no issue with the compounds. Um, surprise, surprise, surprise. Um, but yeah, I don't like this four to six week on, four to six week off. Um, I mean, granted you're not, you can make progress in the on bit. I mean, I suppose also it depends on what he's wanting to achieve as well, but I would, I would like a longer on period and a longer off period personally. Um, I don't think there's a particular issue with the overall anabolic exposure, though I would be a little bit wary around the orals being six weeks on, six weeks off. Yeah. And maybe do that six weeks and then miss the next block. It's more, um, a progression thing because you, you just sort of nicely get it into your stride and making some good progress and then you're coming off. So I would be tempted to run a little bit longer with a slightly longer break in between, but the actual overall anabolic exposure is going to be very similar because you, you've got the same mirrored effect, you know, whatever time on you're having time off. So I don't think the overall anabolic exposure is going to be a huge issue. Uh, don't like the frequency of oral and just think it's maybe not the best time span for productive progress. Yeah. Yeah. So he's, he's running the, what would you prefer to do with that anadrol given the test deck, uh, mast cycle, which I like the test deck of mast. I feel like if you're somebody who deals with maybe, uh, you know, the erectile issues you get from mass, you're, you're probably going to be able to nicely counteract or that from Deca, you're probably going to be able to nicely counteract that with the mast, right? I knew what you meant. Um, I, I would probably be leaning more into the eight to 10, um, and run the Oral's last four. Yeah. Um, and then, you know, a similar sort of break in between as, as he has, I mean, I, I like the old school same time officers, same time on, I mean, I know we don't really do it now, but I like the old school approach that I think it works well. It's simple. It's easy to adhere to. Uh, but unfortunately people are pushing into longer cycles and shorter breaks. So these days it's more twice as long on as you are off. Yeah. I, I'd say that with that anadrol personally, I would, I like it more or less intermittently on specific training days. So I wouldn't take it even every day, maybe the last six weeks. Um, but let's say you're, you're like just on your big training days, like, you know, maybe a push day, a back day and a leg day, three, three, like three times. I don't care what the rest of your, your training split is. So, you know, maybe Monday, Wednesday, Friday, if you can split it up that way. Hey, blood force, Tanya's with us. She's still in Vegas. I got to see her. Uh, she was at the strong booth, I guess. I didn't see her there. She came over and saw me at mutant. She's with us on the live stream. She says, uh, just checking in from, uh, Rachel Nevada right now near area 51 at the little alien, uh, at the little alien, alien spelled like a Lee I N N I'll stick around as long as I have service. Good luck with that. Right. Give me a spaceship with a, do you want a pro charger in it? Yeah. Pro charge spaceship. Ooh. Yeah. Do they do that? Do they make those? I don't know guys. I could really use your help. This is from Anthony bricks. Uh, he says, I'm, I'm running a balking cycle with test EQ and trend. My appetite has completely disappeared to the point where my weight gain is stalling because I can't get food down. Uh, glutamine hasn't helped even ordered apple cider vinegar and, uh, some enzymes, uh, had bloods done by Dave before I started the cycle and they all looked good. Love the show. Keep up the good work guys. Sorry. My wife had to ask me a question and I missed part of that. He's basically, he's, he's struggling with low appetite on cycle of test EQ and trend. Right. So two potential problems, the trend or the EQ. EQ I find really weird in a lot of people that increases their appetite, but I have known people where it absolutely just tanks it. Yeah. Um, and it's to do with its impacts in the liver, uh, liver does actually have a nice link to appetite. Trend can be a bit of a shit bag on your stomach as well. Um, unfortunately, which one it is, is difficult to say. Um, but I would probably start with removing the trend and see how you do once that's gone. And if that's not the culprit, you can swap it around. Um, or if you want to push through, then it's just a case of supporting your digestive tract as much as you can. So good enzymes, good fermented food, probiotics, all that sort of stuff, making sure your diet is nice and varied and you're not just using single source sources all the time for proteins and stuff like that. Um, will all help. And it also depends on what the stomach issues are. If it's just the fact, and you're not going to like this, but if it's just the fact that you don't feel like eating, just shove it in. If it's actually physically stopping you from eating because you're feeling sick or, or you're going down that route, that's different. But appetite blunt doesn't necessarily mean you can't eat. It just means you've got to switch off and just shove it in. Um, so there is a difference between that and force feeding where you're forcing food in beyond the point that you can actually, uh, you're wanting to bring it back up. You've got that much food. Yeah. I, I wonder what he's done nutritionally to get here. Like, has he ramped that food up? Like, is he at a point now where the food is just so fricking high and what's happening with composition, what's happening with weight gain? Sometimes I feel like people are actually eating more than they need to. Um, we're missing a lot of factors here. I'd like to know, like, what was your starting weight and what's your weight now? What's like, you know what I'm saying? There's like a lot going on here that, cause a lot of times it could be nutritionally, you know, I I'll have tricks that I'll use with people like enzymes are a great move. You mentioned that, but you know, sometimes, sometimes the fats are too high. If we can get rid of some of those fats, make room for more, you know, faster digestion then, then somebody could tolerate maybe the same calories from carbs. There's a lot of ways. The other thing is how efficient is digestion? Are you pushing a lot of food in, but you're shitting a lot of food out? Yeah. Uh, and that's something as well. And it's not a pleasant topic asking, you know, how many turds do you drop a day? But it is relevant. You know, if you're, if you're dropping logs three, four times a day, there's a strong chance you're not actually digesting the food particularly well, and you'll do better to reduce the food and focus more on better digestion. So you're actually getting more out of the food you're eating. Can we pull a clip of you saying dropping logs? Put it on a t-shirt. Well, like your face smile, big face picture of you smiling. It just says dropping logs. Drop logs. Well, I mean, That was amazing. You used to refer to chopping wood as training, didn't we? We used to talk about chopping wood and training and stuff. So this can be a modern day version, dropping logs. Dropping logs. Yeah, I like it. Um, all right. All right. Let's see. Why is it funny to listen to me answer questions about appetite? Josh, I require an explanation. One more thing. Uh, what about cardio? We could always add in, like, I want to know, man, because there's a lot of things that we're just not looking at here. Like I said, we don't know what this diet is. We don't know what the progression of scale weight is like. There's definitely things we can do chemically and physically to improve appetite. Yes. Yeah. You know, uh, both chemically with stuff like insulin and T3 and, and like you said, cardio, and other aspects where, and I think people get a little bit scared with cardio because they think, well, I'm trying to bulk. I don't want to be doing cardio. It's like, actually, a little bit of cardio is going to increase your ability to push more food and process. Yeah. Uh, hey guys, let me show a quick question. Looking for insight. 36 year old army vet here. Thank you for your service. He says, um, uh, was running 150 tests, 75 NPP as TRT plus NPP being mostly for my joints. He says joint health. Um, now running 350 tests and 175 NPP planning to run that for 16 to 20 weeks, then dropping back to TRT plus afterwards. You guys think that running 75 NPP long-term at that dose is going to be fine for my health wise. Thank you. I would go 50 milligrams Decker if you're going to run it. Yeah. Too much of that. Too much of that. Yeah. Yeah. And like, what is his, what does he look, what does his bloods look like? Like if he has high hematocrit at the end of the cycle, he's not going to get that hematocrit down staying in a strong TRT plus cycle. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Well, I mean the, the, it's also one of the drivers for hemoglobin and also for estrogen conversion is, is your peaks, which is why when you split test up into multiple injections, you get lower peaks. So therefore you get lower conversion. So NPP is going to increase the overall anabolic peak. So that it's going to increase estrogen conversion. Where if you go with Decker, it doesn't peak. Well, not in the same way. So it's going to be more of a flat line, which will be more beneficial to joint support. I've seen some, there's been some interesting research stuff around doses of 50 milliliterbs of Decker and joint maintenance and stuff, which, which have been all right, mainly in women, but, um, there's shown some, some good positive outcomes. Um, and I don't think cardiovascular issues were particularly noted in any way, um, because the dose is so minimal, but I just don't like the peak and trough element that you're going to get with NPP. Yeah. All right. Um, James says, hello, Scott and Dave. I wanted to ask what other compounds, anabolics one, uh, can use to make the muscles fuller. If I can't afford GH super draw. Oh yeah. A little esterol in there. Super draw. A little esterol. Get it in there. insulin. insulin. Yeah. Get a little insulin in there. Yeah. Yeah. You don't need much, man. No. Just a half a cup, a pinch. What is that? My, my good wife phones you with clinics running inside of me. Yeah. Guys, in case you didn't know, Dave's joining us directly from eval right now. He's in the office and my phones are turned off. Good Dave. We were proud of you. You finally figured it out after seven years. You realize how much crap we got early on? Cause you didn't. I don't understand why people get so upset by it. Oh, so mad. So mad. It's so tempted to just do it deliberately because it winds them up so much. Oh, you would, you would, you wouldn't want to do that to our listeners. Would you? Don't know. Depends how much to get from your pro charger. Dave will turn off his phone if you buy him a pro charger. Yeah. All right. Keith says, um, a couple of questions. He's really pushing it here. He wants to get two questions. Uh, why do people think it's necessary to do trend? I run test NPP in Anivar and saw similar gains. I even found a product with a blend of NPP and DECA. I put that with Sust in Anivar and it would be, uh, the, the, some of the best gains ever. I don't know. I I've never understood the fascination with trend. It's a useful tool in the right environment. I don't see it offseason or mass building being the environment for it personally. Other people disagree. I think there is a group of people. I like the fact that with the right person, they can eat like shit, train like shit and still grow and look half decent. Yeah. Yeah. You reverse that. There is that to it. Uh, it's a very powerful drug. It's a drug that does require respect. And, and I just, I, I wouldn't say I see limited use for it. I just see a lot of unnecessary use of it personally. I feel, but that's my opinion. So it's mainly a cattle drug, right? And they use it to beef up cattle before they go to slaughter. That tells me that it is really good at putting on tissue. You are not a cow though. Looks may be deceiving. You are not a cow, sir. Yeah. But it does it to me too. Like I, or any of my clients, dude, I'll tell you what, Dave, here's, here's what I see. We got a guy, he's 243 pounds today, you know, and last week and every two weeks or every week he's losing two pounds. Let's say that. All right. Now we start trend at eight weeks out from the show and guess what happens? He's 245 and the scale doesn't move, but each week he keeps looking like he's dropping two pounds. Now I'm saying, yeah, but that's, that's my point. That's where I think trend comes in. Yeah. We comp six weeks out. You run it a bit sooner than I would, but effectively in a lead up to a show, the same argument with strength sports, you know, more in the lead up to show where I don't really want to see it is offseason. Okay. Um, and if you're competitive, you know, your body's going to go through a shitload of stress. Uh, and we're going to bring in some of the probably nastiest drugs we're ever going to look at pre-comp. Yeah. You know, things like halo come in and stuff like that, you know, the harsh ones, but they come in for a reason. They do have a very finishing effect and they do work very, very well. So I want my offseason to be as healthy as I can make it within reason. Yeah. And that's why I avoid trend. If you could only pick four compounds for contest prep for, you know, like you're working with a client, he's doing a show. Injectable on all the rules or both? Just both. Period. Period. Yeah. Fat burners, anabolics, everything. Test, mast. Oh, fat burners, anabolics. Oh, that's, that's. That you're only four. Oh. Yeah. We played this game on Blood, Sweat and Gear the other week, but we, I gave the guys five. I'm going to make it harder on you. Because five was too easy. I'm going to, I must admit, because of the restriction, I'm probably going to lean into trend. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Because I don't, ideally I would have gone something along the lines of, if it was just anabolics, I would have gone test, mast, trend the last, last few weeks and an oral of some description depending on what the physique denoted. So be that halo, anadrol, depending on what I'm trying to do, estrol, depending on what I'm trying to do with the feet. You know, if I've got a guy coming in, he's super, super shredded, but I can't get him full, I'm going to lean into anadrol or estrol. Yeah. If, if I need a bit more help in that, or I want to really harden him up, I'm going to lean into halo. So yeah. So there'll be some flexibility on there. Uh, but if you're putting fat burners in there as well, ah, actually saying that you don't need fat burners to get lean. Yeah, you don't, but you can sure push it further faster and eat possibly even, yeah, you push it further faster. You can. So when we create a time. Yeah. But nice, nice coming as shredded as anybody. They just got no muscle. Well, that's not fair. They don't have the same level of development in general as I want to say that. I haven't seen you cause we did, we did Janicek last week, didn't we? So the week before I was at the night PCA finals. Yeah. You did testing for that. We talked about that. Yeah. Let's talk about the size of the fucker that won that show. Yeah. You looked incredible, dude. Yeah. Yeah. You tested him. You tested him. So, um, yeah, bloody hell. There was some, there was some muscle actually on that show. Um, yeah. All right. So let's see what's next. And listen, Trent, I'm going to say this, man. Why does it have, people are like, why is trying to have this reputation? So it has kind of crossed over to the mainstream and yeah, because it works like that's flat out it. Um, he also asked, uh, wondering if you guys have heard why I get hiccups when I go to high dosages, hiccups are a symptom of acid reflux a lot of times. So I've seen a lot of acid issues with people, especially as they're pushing the gear up, pushing the food in one direction or the other, you know, I've seen a few people that, Oh, I know a few people that are plagued with hiccups. Um, and it, it doesn't necessarily link to Trent. It's just anabolics in general, but I don't know if it's anabolics and food or more food or more anabolics, but the diaphragm just seems to get in stress and won't relax. Yeah. So there's, there's a few things that can drive it, but I'm, I'm honestly not sure exactly why it happens. Yeah. There's a, um, a histamine response that we can get. And I think that that's been a big part of it. In fact, I think who was it years ago? Uh, Luke Sandov was dealing with that and it was Dean, Dean St. Mart who had him suggested an antihistamine and that for him that, that worked. Definitely. You see that quite a bit. I actually see, um, histamine responses from injectables quite a bit. Um, people getting hot flushed, hot faced, itchy skin, all those sorts of things. I found too, what solvents are in the mix when I've used gear that's using like the super solvents and stuff. I think you're an inflammation is higher. I think you're a lot more likely to deal with, with stomach issues, gut issues. Yeah. Hey, what's going on guys? Just a quick shout out to true nutrition. I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight ISO. I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This has like been my favorite, but they've got a bunch of different flavors. So if you're interested in something else, just check them out. It's a, it's a very light protein overall. It's not going to blow your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatine. They've got great intro workout, highly branched cyclic dextrin, which is the high end. And then they've got the cheaper stuff like carbo load, like anybody can afford that. And of course, use our code. Think it'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. Now you get 10% off if you use the code and it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out a ton might be a buck here and there, but you know, if you guys all use the code, it definitely adds up and you have been using the code. So thank you for that. Let's get back to the podcast, but thank you for hanging out with me here in the home gym. All right. BG 98 says, um, I've just had my bloods back. 1050 milligrams of test with 350 milligrams of EQ. E2 levels are 17 peak mole or wait, no picograms per milliliter. Um, I definitely, is that what it is? The PG picograms? Okay. I definitely, I thought you like looked up at me weird. I was like, I thought, did I say it wrong? I definitely, no, no, no. I was, I was, I was, I was forgetting we're talking Americanese. Yeah. PG per ml. We'll just say that I definitely, um, uh, didn't think it would be that low at a three to one ratio. I haven't noticed any low E2 size. Just wondering if you can touch on what you do. If you were me for future cycle planning, would you leave the EQ out? My plan now is to change to a five to one and see the rest of the cycle through and then check bloods again at the end for reference. My E2 was 23 PG per ml and 500 tested by itself. So maybe I'm a low aromatizer. You are a low aromatizer. Yeah. Very low. I mean, I would be happy with 22 or 500 and no AI. Yeah. At all. So it's definitely a consideration. Yeah. I mean, I don't think people sometimes take this into consideration, but it definitely is a consideration, particularly with more people moving to EQ as an alternative to mass and primo at the moment that because it is so efficient at lowering E2, you do need to make sure you have enough E2. Yeah. And that might mean some dosage manipulation and it might not be the ratios that you were expecting or even wanting. And like in this situation, you might find a situation where you either have to walk the test or create more aromatization or you need to lower or drop out the EQ or just start drinking lots of alcohol. That will bring your estrogen up as well. Yeah. It'd be a good mix. Great for your overall progress too. You'd be happy. Okay. He's not alone, man. I mean, it's not common, but I've definitely worked with some people that have this issue. They get EQ into the mix and man, we have to either crank the test, not turn the test knob all the way up to 10 to keep the estrogen high or, you know, or we have to keep the EQ real low. I think it's great, man, that people are more aware of this stuff nowadays. 15 years ago, people wouldn't have paid attention to this. They didn't get any estrogen sides. So they'd just be like, oh, crack on. I sort of miss that to a degree. Yeah. Yeah. But you know what? It was a, it was kind of a hit or miss if you're going to make progress then, right? Yeah, no, I know. And obviously testing and having greater knowledge base and having more information to pull from is much better. I'm not, not saying it's not, but the, the other side of that is you've now got people, we get asked for all sorts of frigging tests and you're just like, what are you going to do with the information? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you'd be on chat GP again about the ultimate blood test and just come up with all these weird shit. Yeah. Um, so I hear you on that. There is, there is also an oversight in Cindy. You need to be wary of, and it's about trying to find that balance. If your estrogen is too low though, it will affect your gains, right? It will affect your gains. It will affect your lipids more dramatically. If it's really low, it will start to affect your joints and your eyesight as well as your cognitive function and the little man downstairs. Yeah. All those things. Yeah. Little Scott's going to struggle. Okay. We got one here. Uh, question for the next show, uh, from smart training nutrition. He says distal bicep tendon tear. What should I do to minimize atrophy to the immobilized arm and boost recovery speed? I don't know. So when a muscle is not attached, it can't be contracted or stretched. Right. So as a result, it can't be stimulated. Well, it's, I think he's got it fixed now. Ah, right. Okay. So, but now he's going to, you know, he's, he's all casted up and you know what I mean? He's, he's immobilized. Yeah. So that, right. So there's not really a lot you can do. And I don't think there's going to be any real significant gain from a chemical protocol using recovery agents and chemicals that are going to aid faster recovery. So like your peptides and your GH and those sort of things. And yes, I can see benefit there. Um, at the end of the day, the sooner you recover, the sooner you can start your rehab and your, your mic's gone real quiet. Is it? Yeah. I wonder why that is. Just, just, I think it's just the mic. Just, just, just, you know, uh, is that better if you project is a better? No, not that not put your mouth on the mic. Just speak from your diaphragm Dave. Okay. How's that? It is so much better. Um, yeah, no, I'm saying that, you know, I think recovery chemical and a chemical program recovery is useful. I don't really, I wouldn't put much effort into trying to chemically maintain muscle mass. The sooner you heal, the sooner you get back into a rehab program and be patient with a rehab program. So many people screw up because they rush it. Yeah. Um, you, you're going to have a shitload of satellite cells still sat there. The muscular size is going to come back to probably 80, 85% really rapidly. And then that last 10, 15 might be a little bit more of a slog, but you know, the initial recovery of muscle size is going to be surprisingly quick. So I would just focus on recovery, um, and, and do lots of legs, lots of legs, lots of legs. Yeah. Yeah. So get this, Scott Stevenson showed me some research at one point. This mind blowing, man, by trick, by training the good arm, you will in fact improve the muscularity of the bad arm. Yeah. There's also now this, this is, this is another thing. Um, you can actually visualize exercise on the muscle group without actually using the muscle group and create increased blood flow within that area. Without moving the arm. Yeah. So if you go to bed, close your eyes, you've got to be able to get into a reasonably decent meditative state. I'm not saying you've got to be completely zen, but you do need to, yeah, you Scott, don't take the piss. I'm trying to grow. It's not working. Um, and then you visualize the muscle working. So you visualize going through the motions of training it and that this is the complete motion. So you sit, say it's a machine movement. You sit in the machine, you visualize grabbing the machine. You visualize every aspect of that movement, the whole bit, like you're really there. You will actually get blood flow in that muscle and get a pump. Wow. So you can help feed the injured arm as well. Yeah. By visualizing these shoes. Huh? I've forgotten about that. You know, now this is different, but we also, uh, did a video Scott and I did about how they took a group of people that were lifting a particular weight and they took another group of people that just contracted the muscle through that same range of motion and they contracted as hard as they could. So let's say I'm like contracting through a bicep curl movement in the end, the people who had no load got just as much progress as the people who had load. I would expect there's a ceiling, but I don't, doesn't surprise me in the slightest. Doesn't because, um, I mean, I'm a big fan of TUT and I know how effective it can be. So I think you're doing a similar thing in that you're restricting the muscle's ability to, to contract, you know, you're creating a tension within the muscle that'd be artificial. Um, so yeah, it doesn't surprise me to be honest. All right, let's try to rapid fire through a few of these so we can get through them and get caught back up. Danny boy fit says, can you guys give your thoughts on an enclomaphene? I'm a totally Natalie natty guy and thinking of trying it to increase my test. Thanks guys. Enjoy the show. Viable. Also Novodex is viable. Um, it all depends. Again, clomaphene is much better tolerated than clomid. Um, so you're, you're unlikely to get all the mood issues and weepiness and, and can't cope with life shit. Um, that you get off clomid. Yeah. But, but Novodex has been shown to be very, very effective in increasing natural testosterone as well. So it's another option. Uh, particularly cause I know depends where you are, but I know and clomaphene can insert there is be difficult to get ahold of. Okay. Yeah. Here in the U S research sites, you can definitely find and clomaphene eat more, you know, more readily. Um, and I have switched to using that with my guys that come off and do PCT. And I do know that they are using both clomid and in clomaphene as like a, a first line TRT for younger guys that they're not, you know, they're not going to, you know, give a prescription, a test yet too. All right. Great channel. Thanks as always for your excellent and honest advice as someone that's 50 plus just starting back into the weight, I mean, to weight training after a long break. Um, it's one of the few channels that seem to have honest and unfiltered info. Well, thank you. Currently on 600 milligrams of, uh, 600 milligrams per month of just testosterone, syponate, injecting IM daily and seeing amazing results. Um, I'm kind of just throwing off that somebody threw out their numbers in months. I, I'm not used to that. Um, anyway, he says, uh, it's been five months on his HCG worth introducing purely for health, uh, better results, zero interest in fertility. Um, also, uh, when do I stop seeing good results from this? If I decide to go beyond TRT, what do you recommend to somebody, um, that is UK based as the next step for purely muscle building? Up the test as the next step. Yeah. Yeah. HCG can help cognitively. Um, it's, I've seen people add in HCG to TRT, uh, because they found that the TRT, though physically they were okay, they made mentally, they didn't find it was a great improvement. And then added the HCG and the mental improvements came from there. Okay. Um, so HCG can be very, very useful in mental clarity on TRT, but it definitely isn't a one size fits all and doesn't work for everybody. There will be a very slight increase in estrogen levels with HCG. Okay. Uh, I wouldn't be too concerned by it unless you are a stupidly high aromatizer. It shouldn't be a major issue. Um, obviously there's a potential fertility bonus there as well, but yeah, I mean, it's, it's one of those compounds that people often added in and say, yeah, I felt a lot better on it, but then they don't tend to sustain it and it tends to drop by the wayside after a while. But I've got a couple of TRT clients that run HCG year round and really do say it helps. Okay. Yeah. I am not a fan. Um, I mean, if so, yeah, it just, it's not my first thought, you know, I'm not, if somebody wanted to run it, I'm more power to you, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. There's definitely not a negative to it, but I think it's very much a case of suck it and see it. And if you feel the juice is worth the squeeze and carry on. Yeah. Uh, I'm taking 600 test e twice a week in 50 trend ACE every day. Um, I'm coming up on 10 weeks and plan on dropping the trend out, but want to run the test for another six weeks. Uh, what's your opinion on adding 50 milligrams of Anivar to these last six weeks or shall I just run the trend longer? Great show guys. Thank you. No issue. We're adding it in if you want to. Yeah. He's already, I don't like the, listen, trying to so strong, Dave, I don't want to do a cycle where we add trend in and then take it out. Like you're not going to go up for, you know what I mean? I like my cycles to be, and I know you've talked about this too, to be more progressive. So if I were planning a cycle, I wouldn't want to start it with like all guns blazing only to end, you know, with as a dance squid. Yeah. Yeah, no, I definitely get that. I, I, I prefer to go the opposite way, the way we ramp into the higher peak doses rather than start peak and drop off. Um, having said that, if it's only for a few weeks towards the end, um, you will get carry over because of the time it's going to take for everything to clear. So the trend, even though it's not injecting it, it's still going to be having an effect in the system for two, three weeks. Um, so yeah, it's, it's not the end of the world. Well, it's trend ace. So all right. Okay. Sorry. I missed that. I thought it was trying to. No, yeah. 50 every day. So the trend's going to be out. I mean, it's, you're going to get an effect for a minute, but week, week, 10 days. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, Oh, I just liked this comment from anabolic window. He says, Oh my God, you see the freak is still around. I love this guy. That was from two weeks ago on the Anifar episode. Yeah. I'm not dead yet. Surprisingly, I admit, but I'm not question. When was the last time you heard somebody reference you as that? Oh, a long time ago. I hated that name. You told me that off the air. So your YouTube channel is you see the freak under construction. Yeah. Yeah. You see the freak and you didn't, you didn't like that. Cause I was like, you're going to, we're naming the show. And I was like, Oh, I could reference you as like, hi, I'm Scott McNally with David Crossland. You see the freak. And you said that was somebody else's idea, right? Sort of. Yeah. So at the time I was sponsored by SSN, uh, South African company, uh, big company actually, um, in South Africa, they were bigger than USN, but the USN hit Europe sooner and got a better following and better traction. And I can't remember if it was SSN that were going to do it, or if it was the guy that had the franchise restaurant in the UK that was going to do it, but they were going to bring a brand out called muscle freak. And the idea was a rich piano resk. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And so hence the name tying in with the brand. Yeah. And then they decided not to go ahead with the project. But at that point I was already decided on doing my project. So I carried on and they didn't. Okay. So the name stopped. But Dave would never like to be seen as a big scary monster. He's really a cuddly teddy bear deep down inside. Depends what mood I mean. Yeah. He was a nice guy, guys. He was really nice. He's gentle. I have used my stature to my advantage more than once in my life. Yeah. Hmm. We've read a couple of those stories. You get noticed in queues. Do you? Yeah. I used to never have a problem getting served anyway. Yeah, I bet. I need to go and answer this because I said I would. And I've lost it now. Oh, is it from the beginning of the show? Yeah. And people keep commenting and driving me comments back down. Stop. I know. I know. Stop commenting. Stop commenting. Stop commenting. Stop commenting. It was about Trent and Progesterone. Right. Could you not Trent? It was about Decker. And could you work out whether Decker was any good by looking at your prolactin and progesterone levels? Oh, okay. So there's a few misconceptions about Decker. And one of them is that it is its effect on progesterone. Decker is or acts like, it's not actually a true, acts like a progestin, which means it engages with the progesterone receptor and imparts a signal. Trent does this. And Trent also does it to the estrogen receptor as well. And Trent actually acts as an agonist of the estrogen receptor, making it more sensitive. Now, so Decker doesn't directly affect progesterone levels. It doesn't raise them. It doesn't convert to it. It just engages with the receptor. Depending on the dose of Decker, that can cause the body to think that progesterone is elevated because it's getting lots of signals. Or it can cause the body to think progesterone is lower because progesterone can't attach and Decker sends a signal that's weaker than progesterone itself. Yeah. So though Decker can have an impact on progesterone, it is not a concern. Your progesterone levels have no reflection on how good your fucking Decker is. They are not affecting you in any way. And the likelihood of them being elevated is actually from the stress of being on steroids because progesterone will elevate with stress. So the chemical stress will cause progesterone to elevate anyway. And we very commonly see pretty progesterone, not hugely above range, but up in people on TRT or using any form of anabolic. Now with prolactin, Decker can elevate a prolactin, but again, it is very varied from person to person. And it depends on lots of other factors. So there is no regular or scale that you can work on as well, if I'm on this much, it should be this high. I've seen people on a grammar Decker and still have prolactin in range. I've seen people on no Decker whatsoever and have prolactin hitting at six and 650 because it is also a marker that raises with stress. Okay. If, and that's it. So it is a little bit unpredictable. Yeah. Um, but prolactin will elevate with just anabolic use in general and doesn't necessarily need anything like CABRA to control it. If you just be careful with bloods, don't always treat the numbers. Also assess the symptoms because some numbers don't need treating. It's the symptoms. If you've got an event prolactin, but you feel brand new, everything's working downstairs. Your recovery, sexual recovery is good. Your climax in fine. I'd leave the fucker alone rather than start throwing something like CABRA, which is a very powerful. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with that a hundred percent. I think the same is true with like estrogen, you know, if you're estrogen, I don't care what the number is as much as I care about how it's making you feel. It's a balance. Yeah. You need to, I mean, unfortunately some people aren't always very good at communicating how they feel or aren't even that well in touch with how they feel. Yeah. Uh, which can make it difficult as a coach to interpret, you know, what's actually going on with them against what the bloods are. Yeah. But, but yeah, don't, don't just treat numbers. Look at the total package. All right. Let's see if we can wrap this thing up. I got one more than I want to get in here and a comment. AJ says, I don't, usually comment on any of the videos, but you both seem to be, uh, uh, you make an incredible duo and you bounce off of each other nicely at the same time, providing amazing, uh, amazing and understandable wisdom. How about that? It's a shame he's such an asshole, but I, I appreciate the comment. Thank you. Uh, all right. Last, last one. And, uh, and I did have a, something that might be a little bit of uncle Dave's advice question. Um, so question love the show. I've never run a cycle and I'm somewhat uninformed when it comes to performance enhancement and supplementation. My question in is, uh, how does body fat affect different compounds in a cycle, uh, as well as test and what would be an ideal body fat to achieve before considering a first time cycle? Thank you. Okay. So aromatase is produced by fat cells. The fatter you are, the more aromatase you have, the more aromatase you have, the more you're going to convert to estrogen and the more estrogen management could become a problem. The other aspect is that there are androgen receptors in fat. So some of your gear is going to be engaged with the androgen receptors in fat, not in your muscles. And as a result, you will slightly reduce the effectiveness of the cycle you do if you're a chubby bugger. Now regards a body fat level, the leaner, the better, but that isn't practical for everybody for various reasons. And those are lifestyle, personal adherence, just not being willing to put up with what it takes to get that lean. But I think if you are sub 15, maybe a little bit less percentage wise, then you shouldn't have too many concerns about body fat levels when it comes to anabolics. If you're north of that, and particularly if you're north of 20, then you need to start taking more consideration into the compounds you pick and why. Yep, I'd go with all that. I wish we could get to everything else. I see there is some stuff in the live stream, but we only have so much time, guys. So definitely comment on the next episode. And speaking of which, just keep that in mind, guys, comment on the next episode. We make the shows based off of your questions a lot of times. And the Uncle Dave's advice question I had was, do you guys think that the mental health aspect in fitness and bodybuilding regarding the use of PEDs has changed for the better or for the worse in recent years? Enjoy the show very much. Best wishes to both of you, especially Scott. I really like Scott. I could go either way on Dave. Don't care. He said all that. That's fair. I'll take that. I'm quite happy with that. I'm quite happy with that. You didn't say all that. I made that part up. I know you did. Okay. Yeah. But then you're just, you know, an egotistical little man that thinks he's met. That's what some people think, right? That thinks he's met. Private joke, but never mind. Right. Whoa. Was that a stroke? Yes. You just stroked out? Oh, um, I do feel that the mental health within the sport is in general, broad spectrum, not the greatest. Now, we couldn't get who we wanted on the show to discuss the impacts of steroids on brain chemistry, but there is definitely research that supports a decline in cognitive ability and mental health through anabolic use. Yeah. However, I also think that the support, that the sport itself, the industry, the environment, the social media aspect is all in general, quite mental health negative. Dude, even the drive to do what we do, including put our bodies in harm's way, right? By loading it up with chemicals. Like, that drive in itself, I think, doesn't start. It's not always a positive place, you know? No. Don't get me wrong. I mean, I have seen people introduce themselves to the gym, and it's been a very positive impact on their life, both physically and mentally. And I've seen people introduce themselves to anabolics, and it's been a very positive impact on their life. Absolutely. In fact, one person who stands out, very shy, very insecure, bit Joe 90-ish, if anybody remembers who that is, small, skinny, weak glasses. No, that's genuine. That's genuine. I thought you were, like, literally wearing a green shirt. No, but the guy grew, not a huge physique, but just a nice athletic physique. That improved his confidence, because his confidence improved. He went for a better position at work. He got promoted, and that repeated several times. He had the confidence. He was a really nice guy. He just didn't have the confidence to express himself. And with that, he got into a relationship, met the girl of his dreams, married kids, settled down, fine. He still maintains a good physique, and has struck a very good balance. But unfortunately, that is a rarity. And we've said this on the show many times. There's very few people do one cycle and then can walk away. Yeah. And, you know, I've said, it's a while since I've said it, but I've said this a long time ago, and I will happily repeat myself. Just keep swimming. No, if there is something in your life that you cannot walk away from, that you can't do without, then there is a strong chance that your relationship with that thing, whatever it may be, is potentially not that positive. And it may need some balance addressment. And unfortunately, the nature of this sport, particularly bodybuilding, more so than probably powerlifting or strongman, it requires such dedication if you want to be successful at it. It requires such singularity and such selfishness that it will most likely cause problems in other areas, and you will suffer mentally because of it. There is times of my journey where I definitely disappeared down rabbit holes and where my mental health and my perception of life was very skewed and very unbalanced. I like to think it's a lot better now, but there are definitely aspects of it that aren't. But I think that's for everybody. I also think that in general, the human species is probably suffering from the worst mental health it's ever had across the board. And I feel that is a lot to do with modern living, modern stresses, social media, online. While it be on bodybuilding. Yeah, yeah. So there's a social thing here as well that adds to this, that adds a layer to this. Whereas I think, you know, as a species, we are in the midst of probably the worst mental health across the board we've ever had. And a lot of that, I mean, you want to see someone with good mental health, you usually find them in the back of beyond with no modern living and just getting on with life. Because they don't have any false pressure created by social media, by environment, by finances. They just, they've got what they've got and they're happy to get on with it. And it's something that we, especially in the Western world, we seem to have lost to a degree. But yes, there are definitely aspects. And I think to a degree, you've got to be slightly unwired to get into this shit in the first place, to be honest. Yeah, yeah. I think there's a foundational thing at the extreme level, you know. I'm not knocking it. I'm part of it too. And I can relate, man. I just was at the Olympia. And although I'm, you know, I'm like at my healthiest now for the past five years, I was reflecting on, you know, how did I feel not being able to be my best for several years and showing up at these events? It's like, yeah. And at the same time, it's like, we put a lot of pressure on ourselves, I guess is what I'm saying, you know. And you could take somebody who's been training hard for two, three years straight. They look fantastic. You get them in an expo like that and they're like, eh. Destroyed. Yeah, destroyed, man. Because they don't look like the pros on stage. You know what I mean? We both know somebody, not well, but we both know somebody who ultimately killed himself through anabolic use because of his mental health. Edit that. Sorry, who unalived himself. Well, you already said it. All right. Well, edit it then. I will. Through his anabolic use, he passed shortly after FIBA. Oh, Jesus. You know what I'm on about now, don't you? Now, it wasn't intentional. You know what I'm saying? No, sorry, this wasn't an intentional loss of life. This was accidental for the fact that he could not bring the doses down because he was so obsessed with being big and so obsessed with being the size of the pros and thought the answer was chemical. And he was sending his labs to you and other people I know for a couple years, man. Yeah, and he got told several times. They were bad for years. Yeah, you've got to stop this. You can't keep doing this. You are going to pass if you carry on doing what you're doing. And he would not listen because he so much wanted to have that physique. And though he's an extreme example, I've seen scaled down versions of that several times where people have kidney problems and other health problems, but they just can't walk away because their identity is so hinged around their health. Sorry, around their image. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is what it is at the end of the day. That we kind of, it's an extreme thing, you know, and your reaction is now an extreme reaction, you know? I get it. And really, all you just need to do is keep dropping logs. Hey, if you drop logs every day that says your digestion is healthy, it says a lot of things about you, right? It does, yeah. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for watching another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McNally. Check out truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK, supplement source.ca for Canadians. Strong sports nutrition. Get some great health stacks in the U.S. and the U.K. evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave, especially if you're on cycle. If you're in the U.K., get your labs done by evalbloodanalysis.com. And thank you to Patreon. And thank you to everybody who came out to the Olympia and hung out. That was freaking awesome, guys. For another episode of the podcast, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Good to see you, Blunt Force Tanya. Have a good rest of your trip. I peed right before we started. Do I need to get my, see if I have prostate enlargement? Get that checked? So people tune in and the first thing they hear is, I need to pee. Yeah. Yeah, I know. I'm just like, well, we get ready for the show and then you yawn. Is it an excitement week? Yeah, I'm just really excited to talk to you, Dave. It's been a week. I know. Well, I have that effect on people. What can I say? All right. It's a cross I have to bear. I'm going to bring up the live stream chat. See if anybody joins us. And all this will get edited out anyway. So don't you worry about it, David. Why did, this is the best stuff. You need to leave this in. It's not how we launched the show, though. No. Maybe we put it at the end. Maybe it's a bonus segment. Have you ever thought about doing a bloopers reel? I do. I do them. Yeah, I'll take these little pieces and I'll either throw it out as a bonus behind the scenes, just throw it up on Patreon or something, or it gets clipped on to the end of the podcast. Alexandria is with us. Things of you being mean to me all the time. Yeah, that. All right. I'll bring us in. We'll get this thing rolling. Bye-bye. Thank you.