Uh, all right. I gotta stop, guys. I gotta stop looking at the comments. You guys are freaking awesome, though. All right. Somebody else is in Mount Joy, PA. Huh? Yeah, we got we got more than one person in Mount Joy, I guess. All right, let's see. All right. All right. Anyway, let's let's get down to this. So, for anybody who is tuning in that uh hasn't tuned in to our content before, my name is Scott McDanley. I've been coaching in bodybuilding full-time now for the last decade, but I've been coaching about 15 years altogether. And what I've tried to do with this channel is bring together a bunch of people to share various perspectives of people who have had a lot of success, people that are respected in our industry. So that we don't necessarily preach to you and tell you this is exactly what you need to do, but more so we get you thinking. We give you ideas so you can listen to what each of us has to say. See how those things apply to you and and then and then make your own decisions. You know, that's learning versus just being told you must do this, you must take this, you must diet this way because there is so many different ways to do it. When I first started coaching, I knew one way, you know, and I knew that like this is the way it had to be. And over time, I've come to learn that there are so many ways to get the same thing done. So, there's a lot of flexibility in dieting and in bodybuilding. And if one aspect or one um one way of doing things isn't working for you, uh be open-minded that there is going to be another way. The key is is being open and being creative. That comes down to the diet. That comes down to the training. And then the more advanced stuff like peeds, it also relates to that too because there's going to be compounds that some people do better with than others. So, it's a matter of in all of these regards finding the things that work for you and then leaning into those things and getting the most out of them, you know. Um, I've got a bunch of stuff that I do want to talk about and I am going to take your listener questions. So, feel free to comment with questions and I'm going to sift back through. I have a few of them lined up already, but there are a few things I want to hit. And I have a main topic. And this main topic is because I, you know, I spend a lot of time reading your comments, right? Like that's that's the way I feel like I can stay plugged in with what you guys want to hear and and with where you're at, right? And I I can't claim to be perfect at it, but that's that's what I try to do. And um you know one of the things that I I notice we have issues with a lot is that we are all coming from different places. You know we we have we have different goals. We have um we have we have different end sites in mind like what what do we want to achieve with this? So, one of the areas that I end up seeing um a lot of a lot of I guess arguing would or and confusion might be a better word. Um it comes down to performance enhancement, you know, because we'll come on and we'll talk about a specific situation and say in this case this guy should do X, Y, and Z. And somebody else comes in and says, "Oh, I would never do that. That's too much." Well, what are your goals? You know, and and what is your experience level, too? All of those things play into it. So, I want to talk about the spectrums of performance enhancement today. And I thought that that would be a really great way to get into this. And that we could probably as podcasters on my end do a better job. And I try I've been trying to do better at this as at laying out the specifics if we're going to talk about doing some type of performance enhancement. Like I want to get specific as to is in who does this answer apply to, you know? So I wrote down some notes. I'm going to turn to those to kind of get this thing rolling. And uh like I said, it's going to be about the levels of enhancement. And the first place is what we would call therapeutic. you know, pure therapy with TRT would be keeping your test in that normal range, right? And uh you know, with that, you're probably not going to experience many side effects. If you have your testosterone literally replacing what your natural testosterone would have done, then the need for uh AIS, the need for controlling estrogen, the chances of your cholesterol getting thrown out of whack, the chances of your blood getting super thick, you know, those things are are are not really going to be um as big of a deal for you. It's it's it's that you know basically when we use testosterone as the hormone that it is that this that you know the same hormone that's in our body at the same doses that our body naturally produces and I'm not talking about the average I'm talking about you like you as an individual because there is a wide range and and I will say this I've seen guys who are on a scale of a thousand say I've seen guys that are at 450 lowend being like 300, 350. I've seen guys at 450 and they're doing great, you know, like they would have never guessed that their test was at the lower range. And then I see guys that are right at that top end and like they they have trouble gaining muscle. So test dose does not equal results. You know, we all have a a unique response. Now, and I'm talking about natural guys, like guys that are naturally at 450, guys that are naturally at 900, you know. Um, but there is benefit though to to being on a TRT dose, even at that level. And and and I'll put it like this that, you know, when we're dieting or or any changes that we make, um, your testosterone levels, all your hormones will be affected. you know, as stress hormones go up, uh, as your sleep gets bad, things like that. Those things, they're going to affect your your testosterone levels, your nutrition obviously is going to affect your testosterone levels. And let's say that we had you on a therapeutic dose of testosterone, and that's all you want. You know, no need for AI, no need for any secondary anabolics. um you know cholesterol is good, hematocrit staying in range, yet you're let's say you're in a dieting situation and we want to get you down to contest conditioning. Now we can in be insured that your test levels are not going to fluctuate like we have a nice stable even introduction of exogenous testosterone through the entire diet, right? So, we've kind of trumped what your body would naturally do. So, you know, there's going to be a benefit. And what are the drawbacks? We all know the drawbacks of testosterone that, you know, if you stay on testosterone long enough, if you're in need of TRT, or even if you're not, because I've seen guys that get to TRT clinics, they had good testosterone, yet the doctor tells them, "Yeah, hop on. It's great. It's a great ride." Um, oh, I got another super chat from Steve. I'll get back to you, Steve. Uh, thank you. it, you know, um, long term it creates dependency, right? That that means that for the rest of your life, whether you're in bodybuilding or not, you are going to depend on an exogenous drug. Meaning that when you're 60 and you're traveling, you have to have testosterone with you. When you're 80, you know, and you're doing whatever you do when you're 80, you're going to need your test shot. when you're in a nursing home, you're going to need your test shot, you know, and so there is a lifelong dependency on medication. And of course, that's something that you have to determine for yourself. Now, if you already are low and you need replacement, then to me, it's a no-brainer. It's kind of like, you know, if you can't get those levels up, if if there's no reason that they should be low, like you've you've worked on diet, you've, you know, done everything you can and they're still low, uh, and you can't fix it, then yeah, it's kind of like saying if you're a diabetic, you should take insulin. Absolutely. You know, now from there we get into like the next segment and I feel like a lot of you guys live in this segment and that is what I would call optimized, you know, and and that's I think where a lot of the TRT clinics come in. You know, TRT clinics are not looking to just replace your natural test. They want to tell you to be optimized. They want you to, you know, let's bring you up to the top end and, you know, from there with the top end, will you be able to uh recover better and grow more muscle? Honestly, for me, it's been hard to tell. Like, but I I will say this, yeah, probably. And with an optimized level though, there do come more risks, right? Because that's where we start to see more adulteration of cholesterol. That's where we see blood thickness start to become a a situation. Um, and that's where we may see some level of high levels of test now are converting to higher levels of estrogen. And we have to at least be aware of that. We may not need to manage it, but we need to be aware of that. And generally in this state, people are still looking to do this year round, you know. So, we have the therapeutic, which is just like legit. This is just as the body behaves that a healthy body behaves and then we have the uh the optimized where now you know we're getting into a little bit higher ranges and usually this is still going to be with bio identical hormones as people are calling it nowadays. um testosterone is going to be the main thing, right? But you may find some small need for estrogen control if you start to get so high that the estrogen is causing you issues. Can you run high estrogen and not use an AI? Absolutely. But there is going to be more risk of complication, right? So like I said, I feel like a lot of you guys live there and then even more of you live in the next stage that we'll call TRT plus. Now, that is like optimized plus a little. And here's where I think a lot of the arguments start to arise in our comment section because you know the optimize is one thing. TRT plus it starts to become a murky gray area. A lot of times with TRT plus we are going outside of the range. So if your normal range is 1,200, guys are looking to run it at 1315 and then maybe put a little bit of something else sprinkled in on top of that. And a lot of times guys are looking to do that longer term too. Be it you know let's throw in 100 deca or you know let's throw in a small dose of anavar and these things are definitely going to enhance performance. You know, we've had the debate on the podcast, you know, what's a good anavar dose? And that's a great example of, you know, well, how does it fit into where your level of optimization is, right? Because there's going to be some people that their levels are going to or their their idea of what they want to achieve is a, you know, a lot higher end. Um, so if you are in a a further stage up, you may say more, but if you're in this stage, like the TRT plus stage, then maybe 5 10 milligrams is all you need, you know? And it's interesting because uh, Vigorous Steve kind of opened my eyes to this one cuz I had a discussion with him. I've mentioned it on the shows before. He had done a podcast about like 5 milligrams of Anavar is all you need. And I'm thinking, well, what you know, 5 milligrams of Anavar, you know, but then I talked to him about it. is like, well, yeah, a lot of the guys that are watching my content aren't looking to be like crazy enhanced juice monkeys. They're looking to, you know, keep it at, you know, just a standard, you know, high-end TRT plus kind of thing like we're talking about here. Now, dosing is pretty much going to be low-end cycles, right? Like that's that's kind of what we're talking about here. And generally whatever you're doing isn't something that you can maintain year round. You know there are points that I would still suggest like hey let's pull this back a little bit. So you know I I do think though a lot of you guys are living in that TRT plus phase. There is kind of some murkiness like I said though. Um and from there we get into enhanced. So technically if you are on TRT plus I will consider that enhanced but then we have there is no question about it I am on a cycle level of enhanced right and that's going to be a lot of the stuff that we talk about on this channel like you are legit enhanced if you're running 300 tests you are legit enhanced if you're running you know 150 test with 300 primo like that is an enhancement that is to me at least beyond TRT plus that is like legit cycle doses. That's not something you can you know maintain for the rest of your life. Um you know but that said this isn't a place of judgment either. This is just trying to define these different levels so that you can determine what level you're in and then also consider well how is that different from what some of the other levels may be. you know, enhanced is full on cycles, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, maybe 20 weeks. Um, our need for lab work, I think, goes up a lot higher once we get into that TRT plus stage because we are looking out. We can run TRT plus stuff longer, but we need to keep our eye on labs. So, maybe you have an idea of adding that 5 milligrams of Anavar in, you know, as Dave would say, crack on. But hey, you know, give it six weeks. Look at where your labs are. What will it affect? Anavar is going to potentially affect your cholesterol. Minor liver stuff, right? Especially at five milligrams, it's not going to do much, but you still you want to keep an eye on those things. And if you are running a little bit more test, then definitely watch your hematocrit, you know. So, high hematocrit isn't the the demon that we once thought it was, but that doesn't mean that there aren't complications that come from it, especially if you start getting symptoms. We're going to get into that in a little bit. I have uh I have a refresher here on the blood pressure machine because a lot of you guys freaking got on board with running your blood pressure after we talked last. I thought that was freaking awesome. So yeah, we have enhanced and and as we get into that enhanced range over time those doses grow, you know. So somewhere in there we get into my next stage that I'm going to call nuclear nuclear enhance, you know, chemical warfare. And you might never reach that stage but there if you keep increasing a little here a little there ultimately those doses end up going from milligrams into grams you know and that's where real health issues can arise and that's what we've seen you know especially over the last decade or so there was a time when people I think were a lot more careful and then there were some ideas that came out about like hey maximize everything you can take as much as you can look at me I'm doing fine And then we started seeing people, you know, un alive after doing that for, you know, a good chunk of time. And there always have been health consequences in bodybuilding. And we need to recognize that. I think to some degree those health consequences potentially can exist with any of these levels. You know what I mean? Obviously, the next each time you step up, the more risk you do take. Somebody recently said in our comments, "Yeah, but what you know what's the opposite is just stay in your house and and be afraid of the world." We can't do that. There is some level of risk in life, but it's calculated, right? And and we want to definitely be safe and we want to think about our futures, too. Here's the thing is that uh over the years as a podcaster and content creator in general, I've seen our listeners pass away at times. Like, we've lost listeners. And to me that is heartbreaking. It really is. And you know a lot of times it it hasn't had anything to do with, you know, chemical enhancement. But I, you know, thing is is that I I would hate to see a decade down the road any of you guys reporting in that your kidneys are failing from something you were doing. You know, I I I want you guys to be as safe as possible. So, you know, in that level of like nuclear, that's where we get people who comment in in the shows saying like, you know, well, why would you ever suggest 300 tests? 300 test isn't going to do anything. You know what I mean? You got to run it at a gram. So, be careful with where you're at because you might be in an earlier stage. You might be in in the enhanced, the standard enhanced, the not nuclear, and somebody else is telling you to run a gram. you know, you just know where you're at and respect that place and don't push things too far too fast. If you can use the least amount possible to get the most out of it, then I think you're doing the best you can. So, anyway, I am over with that rant and uh I am going to jump back to see what the questions are. Let's see and see what your comments are, too. Scott says, "You have two kidneys for a reason." Oh, so are you telling us that you can push it really hard and once you lose one uh or are you saying you have two so that you can donate one of them to another listener when he needs it? I don't know which that is. Uh Yoska, good morning. Skipped work and I'm at the gym. Gabe, what's up? Another client of mine. Good to see you, man. I can't believe it. Uh I do not approve of skipping work, guys, whatsoever. Uh if you are at work right now, that's okay, though. you you just you just ride this out for the next hour. It's your boss won't mind. In fact, you've been working extra hard. You you deserve to spend a little time on the podcast. Dalton coming in with the super chat. All right, man. I see uh thank you very much for that, man. Um let's see. wanted to add this to my question as an uh option because I uh originally forgot uh option three for my cycle leverage test and AI. Okay, we will get back to that. Scott says you can trash one one kidney. No big deal. What's your take on Sustanon 250? I'll get back to that one then. Um because there are a couple other things that I wanted to make sure we talked about here. What's up, Zionic? Happy to have you here, man. Um, opta level of total and free to build muscle. Uh, is it always the higher the better? Diminishing returns. So, that's related. Why don't I take that one right now? You know, man, it it does vary. You know, obviously, high free test is going to be a good thing, right? But there's there I can't put a number on it because like I said, I've seen guys who naturally have you like 450 test, but if you looked at them, you would have guessed that their test was through the roof. And then I've seen guys that that are lower test and then we say, "Oh, we get you on maybe we have a guy that's 325 and he's always felt low T, right? And then we get him on TRT and we think like, oh, initially years ago, I'd think like, oh man, this is going to be a game changer. We get this guy's test levels up and it's going to be lights out. We get his test levels up and guess what? He he tells me like, I really don't notice a difference. I I really can't tell, you know? I guess I get a little bit more energy, you know, but I I I can't really tell that. Like I've literally had those cases. So, you know, where's the diminishing return? It it's hard to say, man, because like I said, everybody's so individual. But I would say this, if you start with the least, you know, and and you work your way up, you find what that minimal baseline is for you, you know, and and that's where I would go with anybody that I worked with is we just kind of start out by seeing, well, where are they? What have they done? And we we try to get the most out of the least we can. So, let's say that a guy is on TRT and he wanted to move it up to TRT plus. It might be as simple as adding a little bit more test and seeing how he feels, seeing how he responds, seeing how his body responds, like is he getting stronger, you know, is he better utilizing nutrition, you know, that kind of stuff. So, but it's it's hard to say. Um, Trent isn't prescribed to humans. Primo is prescribed to women at one gram per one gram per week. Is that true? I don't know about that. Maybe your vitals are labeled wrong. Oh, I think he's talking to somebody else there. All right. Uh, I like I said, I do have some questions and there are a few things I wanted to mention. And one thing I did want to make sure that we touched on today was uh the blood pressure machine because the blood pressure machine. Let's see. I'm going to go to this. I have to hit this button here. And now I am going to go to this page here. All right. This is going to give me a place to start. So, just real quick and just a a quick reminder, blood pressure machines. All right. I I I was surprised by how many of you guys aren't using or weren't using a blood pressure machine regularly. So, this is the one I use and because I am uh a normalsized human or or getting close to it. My wife tells me, "You still have muscle, babe." Um I can fit into the normal cuff. My arm is just about I believe I think we measured it the other day to see how it' fit and it was like 16 and a half seven and this I believe goes to 17. So, uh, I put a link and it is an Amazon affiliate link. If you don't have a blood pressure cuff, then you can buy one. That one came highly recommended. And it has both cuffs. It has the standard cuff and it has the jacked cuff with it, too. And it was a decent price. Uh, what you want to do, and I'm not saying you need to get that machine. Um, that's down in the description, though. But get yourself a blood pressure cuff if you don't have one. Check it first thing in the morning. Check it in the afternoon when you tend to be more busy. and then check it again in the evening and do that regularly. Okay? Because that will help to give you a baseline idea because you can have high blood pressure and not even realize it. Everybody we hear of in bodybuilding who ends up having kidney issues, it was due to running high blood pressure and you might not see that high blood pressure on your lab work until you actually are showing a problem because you've had blood high blood pressure for quite a period of time. So you can catch it before the lab work by checking your blood pressure at home. I'm not saying you have to be that religious, but kind of, you know, get it going. I'll I'll run it, you know, uh three times, four times a day for a few days and then from there I may back off and then next week I might check it once and then if I notice that I you know once during the day and then uh if I notice that it is running higher then I keep a closer eye on it and I do what I need to do to get it corrected including I take Leinipil personally. I keep it prescribed by my doctor. I think that with blood pressure medications it is important to go through your doctor. I I I know there are a lot of places available including some of our um affiliates that we don't talk about on YouTube, but uh I I would suggest though it's good to have this stuff like a good dialogue with your doctor. You know, there are blood pressure medications that um can uh interfere with other drugs. So, it's just I it's one of those things that I feel like having a legit medical opinion is good. And if you don't have a doctor you can trust, then let's back it up a couple steps and work on that. If you're in the US, you have no excuse. Okay, doctors today, they're literally like you can go. So, if you have insurance, which is obviously key, then you look your insurance up. You see the doctors that are going to be available in your area. And I know this takes work, but then you go to Google and you'll see Google reviews on each of these doctors and you'll see their pictures and you'll see what people have to say on them. and you can review them just like you would review the blood pressure monitors on Amazon and you can kind of get a vibe for who you might want to pick. Go in, do an appointment with them, see what you think. Be completely transparent with them and let them know what you're doing. My doctor knows that any AAS talk we do, it's going to be off the record, but she does work with me and she understands where I'm at. Um, and she helps me to monitor things. She's not going to help me by giving me the things that I, you know, want, but uh, you know, we do we do, um, work with like where I'm at, you know, which isn't nearly as enhanced as it used to be. So anyway, that would be my thought there on blood pressure machines. I did have a bunch more stuff that I wanted to mention. Um, let's see. So, another topic we had here, and this is just my hot take on BAM 15. I want to talk about that. I want to talk about Carterine versus SLUPP332. Now, I the prices I've seen on BAM 15 are pretty high. I don't know if you guys have experimented with it yet. It's not for me just simply because of that price point. My thought is this that I have not needed and this might be an old school approach but I haven't needed BAM 15 to get into shape you know and that means that I can still do that with myself and others without having to spend the money that BAM 15 costs. Uh maybe you guys have a better connection than me but just from what I've seen and that includes like my own affiliate stuff. I'm just not a fan because it's just a high price point product. Now, if that I'm not saying you can't use it if you don't want to, but my personal opinion is is that there are so many other options and so many other tools that we already have. I'm not going to promote something to you, you know, just because it's popular and and and and do what be be a conscientious consumer, too. You know, at the end of the day, I want to try to be as honest with you guys as I can. I only promote stuff that I would suggest, you know. Um, I don't know if everybody has the same, you know, we we all have our own motives, I guess, is what I'm getting at. And I'm not saying that every single person who's promoting an expensive supplement um has, you know, bad motives. Uh, but, you know, keep it in mind that like who are you getting the information from and what is their benefit in you using it? That includes everything, including the stuff I talk about, too, you know. And that said, that doesn't disqualify it just because somebody has an invested interest in a product because I talk about stuff I have an interest in all the time. Heck, I just talked about a blood pressure machine and I said, "Here's an affiliate code. Use the code or not, you know, it won't it it won't affect my life. But if you do need a blood pressure machine and you do use the code, then it's going to give me some sort of a small bonus. I'll make like a buck or something. I don't even know, right? So just keep that in mind though you know when you hear about these new trends not trends new trends in uh you know peptide supplementation um you know look at where's this information coming from and what is the person's reasoning for sharing it with you know and uh you know it is a business at the end of the day. Um, so, okay, we did get a good question here from Angry Listener. He asked, "Is the blood pressure monitor reliable?" Uh, oh, wait. Is blood pressure monitoring with smart watches reliable? The cuffs are definitely cheaper. So, I have an Apple Watch, which my wristband needs to be washed cuz I I thought I had Bo one day. Technically, I did because my wrist did. It wasn't me, though. It was my watch. So, that is um put away for now. I until I get that washed really well. Uh but I have the like the Apple I think Ultra I think it is. I bought a couple years ago and I've tracked a lot of stuff on it and it's okay, but it doesn't do blood pressure. I will tell you this, even the at home cuffs, they may be off. Now, from my understanding, I've been told that the wrist cuffs are better than they used to be, but traditionally getting the upper arm cuff is going has traditionally been uh more reliable. That doesn't mean that your machine is reliable, but here's what you can do. You can take it to your doctor. You can read it off of your cuff, read it off of their cuff cuff, and that's what they call calibrating the machine. So, if your machine is always reading 10 points higher than the doctor's machine, then you'll know how to adjust. You've calibrated it. You know that this machine is 10 points off. You'll know that you're actually 10 points lower than that. If it were, you know, that far off, it might only be a few points. And also too, like I said, measure your arm because when I was bigger, if they used this the regular size cuff, um my blood pressure would always be way higher. Uh you know, I've got stories of that. In fact, I had a doctor who told me, a a nurse or assistant, and she kind of was like, "We don't have the big cuff in here." I was like, "Well, I'm going to tell you my blood pressure is going to be high." She's like, "Well, let's try it and see." And of course, it's through the roof. And then I forced her to walk two rooms down to get the other cuff. And she came back and reluctantly plugged it in and took my BP. And guess what? It was perfectly fine. So, there's that. I didn't rub it in her face. Uh, what's up, Tina Carlson? Good to have you here. And uh yeah, so Tanya Miller says, "No, the watches are not." You know, I will tell you that my Apple Watch does not seem to be perfect. It's It's questionable in general. And I'm not just talking about this. I'm talking about just everything with it. I I've known some people, in fact, I have a client, Paul, that uh is doing a test against two different watches. I think he has a a Garmin and an Apple Watch. which I know Scott Stevenson did like three of them back in the day years ago was testing each of these things against each other. I hear that the aura ring is pretty decent for uh you know a a lot of readings. Um I might try that next you know but I I'm I wouldn't say you know trust your your life to it. Uh Stinky watch band tip from uh customers who can't wash things easily. Spray with cheap vodka or rubbing alcohol and allow it to dry well. I do mine each time. Okay. Take the Fitbit off and charge. It works. Nice. All right. Good. Yeah. Scott says Apple Watch track uh sleep tracking is a joke. So, I do see some stuff that seems to be helpful and I know that if I have a poor sleep, it definitely looks different than if I have a good night's sleep. But how perfect is it recommend? How perfect is it recording my actual sleep? That's that's pretty hard to say. I So I I'm more with you than not with you, Scott. So there's that. Um, currently trying to find a good I'll take a couple questions here and uh then I've got a couple more topics. Let's see here though. So Rascal says, "Currencally trying to find a good EQ to test ratio for myself. Do you have a good ratio for yourself?" Now, I've seen a lot of differences between uh, you know, different individuals. Um, generally, here's what I would do if you're looking for a good ratio, you know, and because this, listen to this, too. I've seen some people that, let's just take tests alone. I've seen a guy who will run 300 test and he has no issues with estrogen. Estrogen's in the normal range. I've seen guys who run 500 test and have no issues issues with estrogen. Estrogen is still even in range. Then I've seen guys that run 300 test and they can't control the estrogen. Right? So who are you to begin with? Um but if you wanted to try that out, my thought would be you already have an understanding of how test works hopefully, right? And then I might run it at close to a 1:1 ratio or maybe a little bit more test. Say 400 test to 300. And this is just an example. 400 test to 300 EQ. And then wait a month, get your labs done and see where you're at. You know, you already have known how 400 test would affect you. Now you can find out what does 400 test 300 EQ look like and then that would allow you to further adjust the dosing from there. um it might mean for a slow overall start to this cycle, but after you have this cycle under your belt, you'll have a lot more information that you can then apply to future cycles. So, I'll throw that at you here. Uh let's see. I'm going to keep scrolling up here. U give me just a minute, guys, because I'm reading as we go. Um, all right. Let's get to Dalton's question. Dalton left us a super chat and I think I have to scroll through a 100 more questions to find out what the rest of his question was. He said, "I I wanted to add to my question." Okay. As an option because I originally forgot. Option three would be uh leverage test and AI. So higher test and AI and add four units of generic growth. Now let's see if I can search to find Dalton in here because I'm not sure. Okay, so Dalton from Patreon. Thank you for your support, brother. He says, "Just finished my first bodybuilding prep. Reversing out and then going into a growth phase. uh starting first growth phase after uh was going to leverage test in food along uh food long as possible with AI. Okay. He says uh he's got a couple more posts here. Um I'm in this for the long haul decade plus and want uh to coach. So, I do want to experiment with everything, but I'm wondering if I should just start off more basic. Test plus EQ or the fun option. What's the fun option? Let's see here. I'm going to add this. He's got a lot of comments. I'm not going to be able to get them all up here. Uh, and then I was going to add Primo and then a bit of a pickle, right? Uh, but that's in a bit of a pickle right now. EQ is an option, but I was thinking about instead adding lowd dose bar preostworkout, excuse me, pre just pre-workout and then lowd dose trend later in the cycle. So, he's post cycle now or postcontest now. Judging by those stations in his delts, he's in really good shape. Now, Dalton, if you were to come to me and you were to share with me where you're at, the first thing I'd want to do is I'd want to look at your physique and decide, well, let's set some goals. What are the things that we need to improve? Let's look at how you did at the show. Then, based off that, I would like to look at your training to see what kind of training has led to, let's say that you need to bring your backup. Everybody needs to bring their back up, right? So, let's look at your back training. Let's see exactly what you've done over the course of the prep in the offseason before that and then let's figure out how can we adjust that along the way. Now, I get the vibe that you may not have been on anything yet uh post cycle here, like you you did the prep and you you maybe were and I'm not sure what you were doing during the prep. And that's a big factor, too, because if you were going in all guns blazing, I'd want to know where your health markers are. Do you need to pull back and have any kind of a health phase? Well, if so, then we spend the next week or the next eight weeks just really hammering in on that training and making sure that we're reversing out yet most importantly not getting you fat. We need to ride that insulin sensitivity up. And you could do that for a long freaking time. You just have to be patient and you have to have a lot of restraint because there's going to be some incredible appetite post cycle. A lot of people end up taking themselves out. I did it a couple years, three years, two years in a row, two contest preps in a row and then the third one I finally started getting better. But ultimately, you really do, you know, you don't want to get fat too soon. That's been the problem. Um, let's see. Okay. So, Dalton, let's see. 500 test uh all the way at the top of the chat. Yeah, we got to keep everything concise, Dalton, because I I it's hard for me to find your comments and questions spread through everybody else's. So, if you were running just 500 tests into the show, um I mean, if you're healthy, man, you could keep running that through the post. I would run that for eight weeks. But really, the key is is figuring out what do you need to do differently in your training to be able to get the gains that you want. That would be the first place that I would look. Adjusting that training, keeping the gear up. I mean, if you wanted to add a little EQ in, as long as your your your blood work looks okay, you know, you could do that. Um, NPP might be another option because we can get NPP in there fast and, you know, exact some some really quick anabolic stuff going on so that we can take advantage of it like right now. Get that built up a little bit quicker, I think, and in my experience um, than getting that EQ built up. But yeah, if you wanted to add either in, I guess that would be okay. Um, I mean, growth hormone, tell you what, if you can start the growth now and then continue riding that beyond this phase because you're eventually going to have to take some sort of a break, right? And when the gear comes down, continue on that growth, three, four units a day and continue focusing on that training and and ultimately I want that focus to be on figuring out what you need to do in the gym to get the results that you need. diet-wise while not getting you fat, you know, through this rebound and we should be able to keep you pretty lean for an extended period of time. You know, I'll tell you that the harder you train, the and I don't just mean like, hey, let's do more sets. But the better you train, I should say, and the more intensity you can use in your working sets, the more you're going to get out of food. So, the less food you actually need to be able to make progress. I mean, I can tell you firsthand that at my ultimate best training, which was in my mid-40s, right? Imagine that guy who's used gear for a decade plus in his mid-40s isn't really pushing food hard, just making sure I got protein in, right? And eating fiveish times a day. Sometimes a meal might have even ended up being like ground turkey with a tortilla. And the tortilla is 32 carbs. So, okay, flour tortilla, right? But I I and a 600 test and I made the best back progress of my life because I figured out some major game-changing stuff in my back training to to take that training to the next level and I grew like a weed. So I really do believe that the the training is the driver then the food and the gear work together to help you know give you as much as you can out of that. Um, there was a couple other topics I wanted to make sure I hit. And I do want to make sure I get to all your questions. Um, let's see. Oh, we did get a question about Gyno here. Um, I watch every show uh with all the different guests. I love the show with Dave Crosslin the most. I have always wanted to see a show live. Uh but the time difference presents prevents me. So, thank you for being here today. Um and I think that he had a question a little bit further on because I have gyno and lowering E2 and lowering prolactin didn't seem uh to affect the continual spreading of fatty tissue. Huh. All right. So, I would imagine I mean, sorry, I'm reading a couple more comments that he had put in. So, I mean, it's got to be the hormones that cause it. Now, fatty tissue, I I think that that's a secondary thing. When we talk about gyno, we're talking about first and foremost the gland usually, right? Um, now that said, I think that you still have to if you're gaining fat, there's going to be more fatty tissue. Like, I guess what I don't see is is that if you've if you've stopped the gyno, if you've arrested the gyno from growing, and let's say that you're completely shredded, but you have this stupid lump, right? I don't see fat deposit continuing to grow if that's been arrested. It may not get better. uh you you may you know in that gland it will kind of expand and contract depending on where estrogen levels are. Um but I don't have a real good answer for you. Um I definitely though I'll say this. If you're not sure what's going on, then I would definitely pull the hormones down for now and and figure it out and get that under control because generally it's taking your foot off that we can take our foot off the gas at any time. You know, I remember back in the day when test and dbol were like the thing that everybody did. Literally everybody in their offseasons, they did test and then they did test and deball. Like that was every cycle, right? So, I remember back in the day though that guys would say like, "Oh, I'm starting to get gyno. What should I do?" My first, you know what? Nobody ever said, they didn't ever say, "Take your foot off the gas." They always just said like, "Oh, add some Novadex in. Add this in. Do that." Well, I mean, just skipping a dose of dbol in that situation is going to be a world changer, right? Skip it for a couple days. You just stop introducing the reason that the gyno is happening. That would be the the first and foremost thing that I would suggest. Now, if you if you have done that, let's say that you've got gyno and you've finished the cycle. We used to have a lot more talk about trying to get rid of that gyno by, you know, just bombing the hell out of estrogen. Guys were running like 2.5 electro every day plus, you know, 20 40 tmoxifen. And they would then report back, oh, the gyno's shrinking. I'm reversing it. I'm reversing it. But here's what and maybe if it's super early on, you may have a chance, but you know, everything that I've seen, once you've developed that gland and you have new builtup tissue, that tissue will expand and contract much like a sponge, you know what I mean? Um, with your hormonal situation. So, you go back on cycle and even if the gyno isn't growing, uh, estrogen is a little bit higher, then the gland expands more, right? And if your estrogen's too high, then obviously it's going to continue to evolve and grow. Um, but then you come back off and then that gland shrinks back down. So, I mean, I honestly, unfortunately, if you have gland there and you it's it's noticeable, the only answer is to get it unfortunately cut out. Now, I'll be honest. I feel like every bodybuilder I know has some tiny level of gyno at some degree or another. You know, almost all of us do. And the question is is it noticeable? You know, if it's not noticeable, then, you know, so be it. Then leave it. Um, but if it is noticeable, the only answer is going to be, I think, to actually get it cut out. You know, there there's no spot treatments. um you know, bringing your hormones down and and absolutely destroying estrogen isn't going to be a a a long-term solution. Uh and and if you do need to get that operation done, you know, I had uh I had liposuction on my chest. I didn't have glandular tissue, but as a teenager, I ended up developing what's called pseudogymastia. I didn't understand what it was. It's like, huh, you know, my chest, I feel like I'm growing boobs, basically. And I did get somewhat fat when I hit puberty. It was not a good look, you know. Um, but I noticed like sensitivity at the nipple. And if I had like a sweatshirt on that had like an emblem on it and it rubbed that nipple halfway through the day I'd be like, "Good God, my nipple hurts." I never, of course, I was like 12, 13, so I didn't tell my parents about this. I didn't say anything to anybody. I just never took my shirt off again. And uh, you know, down the road I got into bodybuilding and I learned about this. And then I started realizing like all the men on my dad's side have like thicker chests. Okay. Yeah. So I think there's a genetic thing, you know, and it's something that my dad had experienced and he told me a lot of my uncles had experienced. Uh thankfully I did not have glandular tissue and I went to uh a plastic surgeon and I literally had lipo section lipo sculpture done on my chest and I paid for it out of my own pocket just working my day job. This is this is after I came back from uh working in photography. I initially came back and I managed a warehouse at a place that I worked at while going through college. So I was like, "Oh, that's the first place I know." And so I worked there for a while and I got a job as a warehouse manager and uh I spent I think it was like $1,000 maybe to get this the fat sucked out of my chest and it did resculpt it and it looked great. Now, if you do have glandular tissue, I still highly suggest that you go to a plastic surgeon to get it done. Um, here's the thing. If you if you go to your regular doctor, you get a referral to somebody to remove it, it's most likely going to be a tumor specialist. That tumor specialist's job is to keep you alive. He's not there to keep your chest looking great on the bodybuilding stage. So, you could end up with like a concave scoop taken out, you know, and that's the last thing that you want. So, you want to go to somebody who's also going to keep aesthetics in mind. Uh, obviously, it's going to be more than a thousand to a,000 bucks that I paid. Um, I believe that five about is the standard pricing. I could be wrong on that. It's been a little while since I had looked into it though, but I definitely hope that that helps him. Um, there are a few more things I wanted to mention here, too. Make sure I get to this. You guys were asking about carterine versus SLU PP332. Now, I'll tell you what, carterine is something that um you know, years ago I had definitely use my fair share of it. You know, 25 milligrams, 12 10 to 25 milligrams, and I found that it it it definitely helped with fat loss running 6, eight weeks at a time. Um, I also noticed some improved endurance now dealing with a lot of autoimmune stuff after having caught uh a a virus back in 2021, the beginning of 2021, um, I found that being an exercise mimedic and and helping there, I do believe there is a mitochondrial boost from it. I found that uh carterine was very helpful with my breathing and I found that it always found it improved my endurance but I found that to be extremely beneficial. So I had run carterine at low doses off and on in the past few years. Now that came to SLUPP32. I tried SLU and for me it was an absolute gamecher. Like it blew everything else I had ever tried for like just basically boosting my energy levels, cutting the brain fog, um and it just improving everything across the board, fat loss, energy, endurance. Um SLU for me was a massive step forward. So, you know, fast forward to a month or two ago and I decided, okay, I've been running this long term. I don't know if I'm getting the same amount I used to out of it. I'm going to take a break, right? So, I I pull it out. I take a break. And I thought to myself, huh, what if I go back to carterine? I'm going to try a little carterine while I'm in my off period. I'll tell you what, it doesn't compare. It does, for me at least, it does not compare. Now, I've used carterine for other things. Um, you know, recently Andrew on it's uh, excuse me, blood, sweat, and gear talked about trying to run a health phase using some carterine in it. His goal was to boost his cholesterol, improve his cholesterol profile, and he had great success with it. I, too, have had great success with boosting my HDL. Keep in mind, your liver enzymes are going to get elevated with cardan. I've seen it firsthand. I think we saw it with Andrew's labs. I've seen it with others. But um that said though, you do get a boost. Now, is high HDL in itself going to mean that you're healthier? There's there's definitely the verdicts out on that that there's there's no link between improving HDL to like like going outside and say using flushing nascin, it it doesn't change morbidity morbidity rates. So that said, as Dave Crosslin has mentioned, you know, if we know people with HDL that are high tends to be healthier and have less heart issues, then I would rather at least artificially do these things to bring it back up. So yeah, if you were looking to bring HDL up, I think that's a great place. In the past, um, when I've had endurance clients, guys that are, say, in MMA, you know, mixed martial arts or just fighting sports in general, which I've worked with a bunch of guys in that department. Um, endurance is the number one thing that we're looking for, and we need to be able to keep them fast. Carterine has been a go-to in those cases, and we've had great success with it. I'll look forward to the next time I work with an MMA guy, what we get out of SLU, because I think for some people there may be even more benefit. Now, we were also asked about data um and what my experience was. So, I've been using some data. Uh I believe it's 250 milligrams. Is it dose by milligrams, guys? You tell me because I can't remember offhand, but uh 2 250 milligrams. And um I found that I get an extreme boost out of it. I've only used it intermittently. So my main stay has been SLU. And then I find that on specific days if I want an additional boost, I could go to a milligram of M C. I could go to a a capsule of data, which is either 200 or 250 milligrams, I believe, is what I'm taking. And I'm using that orally. Somebody mentioned that they had I think an injectable data. I don't know if uh our guys our our place research places make that. Um but I I've just gone with the oral and I found that the oral data is extremely potent, but I'm definitely keeping it as a a oneoff. It's not something I would suggest running every day. In fact, I don't think it's a bad idea to break from SLU. You know, uh I'm back on it now. I definitely feel a huge boost from it again. Love the stuff. But what I'm doing is I'm running uh one cap in the morning at 2:50. Uh then another later in the day. So it'll be like 6:37 in the morning and then again at like 2:00 in the afternoon. Um but there are days then for maybe a week in a row that I might skip that second dose just to to titrate down a little bit, you know, or I may take days off of it, too. I'm not going to just run it consistently seven days a week like I did in my first run. But you guys tell me if you're watching the stream right now and you have experience with Carterine as well as SLU. Uh let me know which you found to be a better booster both cognitively and endurance-wise. And uh let's let's throw data in there, too. I'd be curious to hear because that's, you know, part of me learning about this stuff is through my own experimentation. Part of it is through talking to guys like Keith at Parabolic and then part of it is listening to you guys. I hear a huge cross-section uh of of experiences by just listening to our comment section. It's kind of like we have our own experiments that are going on right here in the group, you know. Uh let's see. We got some more questions. I know I had some more stuff too, but I'll take some more questions here first. Uh Joe says, "I also had Cedyno at a young age after finally addressing my health. I lost close to 150 pounds. Um had skin removal on my chest and stomach and they removed the gland. 20K all out of pocket." Dude, I bet you feel and look like a million bucks though, Joe. So, it sounds like it was probably worth it, man. Let's see. Got a question here. Let's see. I'm going to heart that one and come back to it. Um, let's see. You said that TRT plus guys can add Proviron Winnie Var lowd dose tren to look great for summer uh July through August next year. Do you add compounds in May, June before or uh July, August during and which compounds? That's a great question. How basically, how do we set up a non-competitor's like summer looking great looking great on the beach cut? So, let's bring up a calendar here first of all. And because that's what I always do if I'm going to work with somebody on a project, I want to bring up a calendar. So, I'm going to just screenshot Let's see the year and I'm going to bring this in. So, let's look at this first and let's look back. Let's say that you come to me in we'll call it March. Sounds pretty re reasonable, right? And you say, "Hey, I want to get into the best shape that I can and I want to hold that look through the majority of summer." So, it's March now. First of all, let's get that diet cracking, right? because we have maybe it's March 20th, we'll call it. You know, we have another week in March, then we have all the April and May to really get cranking. And a big part of it's going to be how lean are you to begin with, right? How lean you are by the end of a diet. It really comes down to how lean were you when you started and how long did you take on the diet. But let's say that you, you know, you're starting toward the end of March. Um, and let's say that you already are a guy who runs test year round. You're either on TRT or TRT plus or, you know, you are enhanced or you're therapeutic. One of the terms that we came up with today. Um, even if you're nuclear, well, you're probably not nuclear if that's what your goals are. So, we we're going to obviously diet it out the gate. April, May, and and let's see. So, that would be 48 12 16. Um, if we're going to keep the doses low and your health markers all look really good, I honestly wouldn't have a problem with you running a baseline of increased test from April through August. You know, I I I'm just being completely transparent with you. Now, of course, we are going to want to get labs done, you know, after 8 weeks. But let's say April and May, we just increase the test mildly. You know, once again, this is a non-competitor. This is somebody that and this is a great place to be able to use our our chart that we came up with here. This is somebody who's a non-competitor. This is somebody who is um definitely, you know, run cycles, they do get enhanced. So, we are going a little bit more than TRT plus. Um maybe we start test at 300 and we run that 300 test through April and May. uh you know through the end of March you know we're dieting and then a sometime in April we start 300 tests we run that through April and May and then into June we're already getting into decent shape that's where I would then consider adding in an additional compound you know because really we're going to use the diet to do the majority of the heavy lifting and now we're not turning the gear up until June so that we can extend this cuz we're talking. This is a long cycle. This is 20 weeks, right? And after that, we are going to want to take a break. But, uh, yeah, why not, man? You know, as long as you're staying healthy, we do labs throughout. Every six figure 8 weeks would be good. So, we have labs in March. We start dieting. April and May, you're on 300 test, which is obviously not crazy talk by any means. And then by June, we add another compound in. You know, what were our options there? I wouldn't add the Winnie in yet. Um, I mean, honestly, if we did have access to a a DHT like Masteron, Masteron has been my go-to for the last decade for projects like this. So, I would run 300 mast probably to couple that with the 300 test. And we'd start that somewhere around the end of May into June. You're already looking good. We'd probably try to use or as the new term is leverage, isn't it guys? A lot of people are using the term leverage. We would leverage some Clen then around that June period and you guys know the way I've run Clen, which is we start real low. Your diet's already working. When you're checking in with me, you know, let's assume that you're getting 2 lbs per week. 2 lbs per week, 2 lbs per week. We add 20 micrograms of Clen on top of that. You're getting 2 L pounds plus 2 lbs plus or we don't need to make changes. We can keep the food higher and you're still getting two pounds per week. Two pounds per week. Um, and and you know, we add the the mast in at 300, then maybe that's not going to stay that way anymore. Um, but let's say mast isn't available, we could run 300 EQ, you know, and that's not necessarily going to give you a harder look. But we could also add in say I've heard now when we talked about Proviron, I felt like there were a couple people that said Proviron doesn't work. Maybe that's cuz Dave Palo put out a video that proving effect. I don't believe it's going to build any muscle, but you do get a harder, drier look out of it. And if we were to add some proviron in at that point in that June point, basically whatever we had going on, I'd like to add in something in June that is not necessarily going to be, you know, hard on your health, something that we can run for the next 12 weeks. And then from there, if we wanted to build it up further, you know, further into June, then maybe into July, that's where we could start looking at adding in a low dose of an oral. you know, let's say the beginning of July, we add in a low dose of Anavar. And now we're going to run that Anavar through July and through August. The cleanse started at 20, a couple weeks later goes to 40, couple weeks later goes to 60, couple weeks later goes to 80, couple weeks later goes to 100, couple weeks later goes to 120, and then we take a break for a short time. So at that point, you're going, let's see, 24, let's see, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100. So, you could really run it June through August that way pretty much without really coming off, just slowly titrating up. Um, and and you know, if we were to do that, let's say we had lab, you came to me, you had labs done in February, you haven't used anything. Now, we're working together at the end of March. We're we're starting just the test only. April, May, uh June, we go into a cycle. It wouldn't hurt to get another labs done at the end of June. see where everything is at before we thought about turning it up another step. And then July, August is where we would add in say that 25 anar then. So now we have 300 test 300 mast or possibly EQ and proviryon. Uh, and then we add in, you know, 25 anaphar and and and I would call that cycle doses, low cycle doses, but hey, if you're in good shape and you're dieting your butt off, like you're going to be in pretty good shape by the time June, July hits, you know what I'm saying? So, I think you could really do a lot with that. But, of course, everybody is uh uh, you know, so sick of Dave Palumbo. What a idiot. Where's YouTube channel? Oh my god. Total Science does not like Dave. Okay, I get it. Dave is uh polarizing, isn't he? There's a lot of people that don't like Dave. I like Dave. Um and part of it is I've learned a lot from him over the years. I get it. I I think that there's like the Dave Palumbo who and I get it. If I only knew Dave from what he puts out today, maybe I would feel different. But I've been on the journey with him. There was a time when he was like the only guy on the internet uh on on I should say podcast that was talking about gear and that inspired me. I was like, "Yeah, this is cool." You know, I'm learning a lot. I want to help people this way too at some point. Like this was my vision. So Dave inspired me in a lot of ways. You know, this is like 2006. I think he had the the No Bull radio show with John Romano on MD and then 2009 that turned into RX. Um, but I I get it, man. I get it. Total science, you know. Yeah, he did a video saying that, you know, and that's the thing. It's it's as people in like the media space, you get more clicks if you're dramatic, right? So, when you say like proviron doesn't do anything, then you know it it gets attention, right? People are going to watch that. So, yeah. And uh yeah, you're you're welcome for the answer, brother. I that's exactly how I would try to figure things out, though. You want to try to break it down and put a plan together. And of course, that plan doesn't have to stay that way. That's a tentative plan. You know what I mean? But at least now you have an outline for how things are going to go. Cornelius Parkin is in the house. What's up, brother? Good to have you here, man. Cornelius, we talked about all sorts of stuff already. We talked bad about you for the first 30 minutes. And uh let's see. Uh yeah, so Joe who had the the skin removal, he said, "Best investment I ever made, never took my shirt off in public. Not once. I love going shirtless today and my scars have faded substantially." Dude, it sounds like you put in an incredible amount of work, man, to to get to the place where you could have that skin removal done. Um, what does Giddy say here? I went to Turkey for 10 days post op. Oh, what did you have done? Um, hospital in hotel. Uh, very nice results coming out. Let's see. I'm not sure. I didn't I didn't see his earlier message. Let's see. Ty says slew before cognitive and over better for cognitive and overall energy. Uh, Carterine, I notice easier cardio. Uh, no ex experience with data. So, uh, yeah, I'm I'm with you there, man. I definitely feel like I got more benefit out of it. Marcus, I've been researching peeds and bodybuilding in general for 20 years, and you've definitely put out some of the best, if not the best, most relevant and useful information, dude. Marcus, thank you very much, man. I greatly appreciate that. And like I said at the beginning of this, you know, I I never want to tell you guys what to do, literally. you know, I but I do want to share with you my experience and that includes my experience working with people over the last really 15 years, but the last decade full-time and it includes everybody else I I you know podcast with here. We all have our own takes. We don't always agree and that's okay too. We don't have to agree to get along, right? Um I in fact it it is good to be able to give you guys different perspectives. You can apply that to your own lives and then see how that works. I'm I'm scrolling back through here and I'm looking for any questions now. Um, Matthew says, "Just got back to training the last few months from being away for seven to eight years." Welcome back, brother. Dad bod going on but would like to recmp if possible. Um, hope can help. Thanks. Love the show. So, number one, Matthew, are you on? And I'm going to the basics. All right. I know you're probably you're probably wondering what gear should I run, aren't you? Uh we're going to back up because the gear stuff really is pretty simple and it doesn't have to be complicated. And anybody who tells you that it is, they are attempting to be self-important. I promise you that. Or they're trying to sell you something. Um what I'm going to sell you is this. That the number one thing is going to be locking it in. If you haven't been consistent for the past 7, 8 years, it's going to take a while to rebuild these habits, okay? So, be patient with yourself. Forgive yourself when you do make mistakes, but learn from those mistakes and freaking pick back up and figure out, okay, so I had a work trip for the weekend and I I didn't realize I needed to bring my food with me. I only had three meals and then I didn't know what else I was going to do. I screwed up for the rest of the weekend. Yeah. Okay, got it. Next time, how are you going to fix that? you know, or I ended up having to stay late two days this week, so I missed two meals. You know, how can you fix that next time? These things are going to come up, right? And I think there's two ways of doing it. We can either compartmentalize it and say, "Oh, I messed up. I messed up. I messed up. I'm so stupid. You know, nobody else would have made this kind of mistake." And then you put it in a box and you put it off to the side and you never think about it again. And guess what? You never learned anything from it. The other option is to say, "Okay, yeah, I messed up. It's on me, but what do I do next time to, you know, maybe not make the same mistake again?" And if you can do that, that's called progress. And that's how you will get better. And you have to go through that that phase of making mistakes. I mean, that phase of making mistakes is called life, right? And as long as we can try to figure out how to correct it for next time, then we're definitely going to be in a a better place overall. So yeah, man. Um, just keep doing that, you know, keep doing that. And remember, too, that this is a long-term project. So you don't need to do it all at once. You just need to do a little bit better than you did yesterday. And if you can do that, you're going to continue every day, do a little bit better than you did yesterday, and you're going to continue to make progress. And don't get caught in the trap, one more thing, of doing it all at once. You don't need to go to a super hard diet with a ton of cardio. and and I'm going to train six days a week. Like, let's let's make something more reasonable. What can you commit to long term? Because, you know, ideally, yeah, we want to see you get in awesome shape and have the physique that you want, but ultimately, it's the guys that can stick with us, that do it the longest, that ultimately do make the best progress. And that's we want something that's sustainable. you know, I want to be podcasting here in 15 years in my 60s, right? And I want you guys to be with me still training. You know what I mean? So, I I don't want this to be a short-term thing for you. I want you to ask yourself like, how can I commit to this in small ways and make it part of my life? Because it's not just about getting the physique you want. It's about being healthier. It's about being able to carry your body through the world. You know what I mean? If you if you're getting older, too, you know, then we're all getting older. You want as much muscle as you can as you age. It's going to help to keep your metabolism up. It's going to keep you from getting hurt. Dude, look at Fouad. Like, if Fouad didn't have the amount of muscle he did in that car, in that motorcycle wreck, he wouldn't be with us. I promise you. And we've heard so many stories like that where muscle has saved someone's life. The same thing applies to an old guy who falls on his hip when he's 90. If you're all muscled up now and you can hold that muscle, you're going to do better when you take that fall at 75. You know what I'm saying? So, you know, it's it's it's uh it's all short-term goals, but then those long-term benefits as well. Uh for a non-competitor, does it make sense to run higher dosages? Um in uh you know, one more thing because I Matthew, I believe you probably were asking about gear stuff. Um, get your test levels checked before you run anything. You know, make sure that you know what your natural test levels are. And if they are low, part of it could be from poor nutrition and poor sleep habits. And if you can straighten all those things out and you get the diet running good, you have good healthy nutrition, essential fats in your diet, then check it again in eight weeks, you know, and then see where you're at. And if you're still low, then so be it. We talked at the beginning about the levels of enhancement. You could literally just get into like a therapeutic level of testosterone, but I would give yourself a chance first, you know, and either way. Either way, you know, we got another dad bad guy. But let me get back to this one. He says, uh, for a non-competitor, it may uh, does it make sense to run higher dosages in a diet phase like competitors 20 24-we gain phase and titrate to 1.5 grams? Um, would you go higher in a diet? Okay, give me a minute. I'm going to take a quick drink here. And I want to talk to you guys about um about healing bad shots, too, because I had some stuff that we haven't I don't think ever talked about on the channel before. And I just had to help a couple guys with this recently in the last month and it made me think we should have this conversation. So we'll do that next. Um, all right. Get another another pouch here. The world is right. We are good to go. All right. So everybody is unique, you know, like we talked about BG. Uh, but for the non-competitor, does it make sense to run higher doses? So, you know, I everybody has different approaches. You've heard Dusty probably on the channel where he you you know worked a lot with Dante Trudell the creator of DC Training who also by the way DC training and Dante Dante's uh supplement company True Nutrition is uh our main advertiser which I didn't mention at the beginning use our code think for good supplements over there. Dante's approach was keep the gear lower in the offseason and then ramp it up in contest time. Now, when Dusty's talked about that, it makes sense that he was able to continually do progressive overload and get stronger with lower gear in the offseason and then cuz the food was high and then as the food went down, the gear went up. Um, I mean, honestly, you know, I I don't really have many guys that are running a ton of gear that are non-competitors. Over the years, we have paired back a good amount and we're getting like pretty much the same results. And if we didn't, then I would raise the doses, you know, but we have been getting the same results with less gear. So, would I use more in a diet phase? Uh, it's hard to say, but in my experience, I would say it's probably the people I work with, it's probably been pretty similar, honestly. Um, but how I developed the cycles is different than it used to be. You notice that we just went over a cycle plan for a guy who wanted to get in shape for summer. We started out with for him 300 test and then, you know, 6 8 weeks in, we increased that by adding another compound. Now we're on 600 total milligram. And then, uh, you know, a little further in, now we have like the last 8 weeks left. It was a long cycle, a 20we cycle. The last eight weeks we added in a low dose of antavar. So we I like to build the cycles as we go. Let's say that you were in an offseason. Okay, let's say that you were in an offseason BG. You've taken some downtime. You did a health phase. You've done everything you can to d maintain the muscle that you had built. You're training hard still, right? Um maybe you've shifted some of your carbohydrates to fats. you know, maybe you're trying to work a little bit more in insulin sensitivity, but the calories are still overall pretty high. Uh, we get into that diet phase, you're probably not going to need a ton of gear out the gate to be able to evoke a good response, right? And part of that response, I think, is the psychological response of being back on cycle, right? Um, but let's say personally I would might start you on just test or if if we do have a DHT available, maybe test in a DHT and I couple that together. I mean, if we're talking one, let's say that you do run cycles that are like 1.5 grams. Yeah, we might start with let's say that that's your average dosing, 1.5 grams per cycle, then yeah, I would probably, as you mentioned, titrate up, but I I don't think I would go any higher really. I I think we can get a lot out of because also too look at the compounds that we're using, you know, like let's say that you like using Tren Tren is going to be a lot stronger milligram per milligram. So I don't know if going by the the the the milligrams per total cycle. I don't know if that makes sense, you know, because if you're using 200 trend per week, um I mean I I would say like how how effective is that compared to say 400 uh EQ, you know? I feel like the 200 trend, 400 EQ, they're like they're kind of two different things, you know? 400 trend is a whole lot more trend, you know what I mean? I I don't know. So I I wouldn't compare it. I don't really I guess go by total milligrams or total grams. Um, but yeah, I would definitely titrate up and it would probably end up being, you know, pretty similar offseason and diet. Now, that's just me. Like I said, Dante might do that differently. Uh, because, and it does make sense if you could run less gear in your offseason, then that leaves you room because Dusty said I he just kept getting stronger through his diets, you know, which if you're on low gear through the offseason and now you're ramping it up through the diet, heck yeah, man. You're gonna you're going to keep getting stronger and stronger. Yes, Dave was a pretty 415. Uh Joe asks, "What dosage of GH do you recommend to increase fat loss?" I don't I don't see growth hormone as being a really great fat burner. Honestly, I I'm not saying that I don't like growth. I don't think I'm not saying it's not a a benefit, but if you're getting into it solely for fat loss, I think that there are a lot of other things that you can get better benefit from first. Uh you might get some benefit from it. say in in an offseason not getting as fat as you may have. Now, we already talked, Joe, so I know you already had that skin removal. You're probably going to be one of those guys that doesn't want to like actually quote unquote bulk in the offseason. You know, you take a guy like Dusty or Ron now in their prime, you could probably take them from like, you know, take Ron from like 250, blast him up to 330 and then pull him back down to 285 ripped, right? Average human beings, their bodies don't respond like that. average human beings, especially a guy who already has like a predisposition to get fat, you start putting that fat on and you're going to have to work three times harder to get the fat off than it took to get the couple pounds of muscle you gained, you know? So, I would say uh a slow steady increase in the offseason. And for you then that might be a honestly it might be you might find that even two three units of growth could be beneficial to not get quite as fat, you know, as you're trying to grow. And but I would suggest yeah, you don't you don't probably ever want to get into a position where you're quote unquote like in a heavy bulk, you know. Um Matt Morrison, absolutely love you. Uh these live chats and what you do with Angry Dave. Thank you. I appreciate that. Let's see what else we have here. And I know I had Let me just go to the super chats really quick to see what else in case there's anything else going on here. Um, okay. Steve's got one for us from super chat. And then I know he had something I wanted to share with you guys. I got to make sure I hit this. He says, um, 42 56 um on I don't know what zbound and down 70 looking to do a cycle. What's zbbound? I don't even know what that is, guys. You know, you tell me. What's up bound? I'm going to look it up. Gives me a chance to not talk for a minute, too. Oh, Trespatide. Okay. I didn't know it by the the name brand. Well, fantastic, dude. I had a feeling it was one of the GLPs. I I honestly Trespatide uh ties with us. He's the only I maybe I shouldn't say uh out people that I work with that are taking stuff, but he has a prescription for it. Um, I I haven't used a ton of it though. I'll just say that. But anyway, though, that wasn't his question. He's down 70 pounds. So, Steve, my question to you would be like, are you uh are are you experienced at all with gear? You know, if if you're looking cuz I would say this without being able to give you dosing. Um, unless you're commenting back to me right now. Let's see here. Thank you, Ali. I appreciate it, brother. Um, all right. So, here's here's uh my thought overall. Um, I would suggest that you you do keep things modest. The number one thing that I can say is I bring your question back up, Steve. If you came down 70 pounds, you know, you probably had a decent amount of body fat on you, right? um you're probably going to be more prone to putting more body fat on. So, I would suggest to you that you probably keep the diet tight and that's going to be the key. And anything you do gear-wise is going to be beneficial to helping you to gain more muscle along the way. You know, I want your obviously your protein is going to be high in each meal and that's going to be the foundation. Um, but you know, even man, I you know, it's generic, but just test test in EQ, test in mass, test in Primo. Any of these things would be good. If you aren't very experienced with gear, let's say that you're not running much. Let's say you're just on TRT right now and that's all you do. You've been getting, let's assume, let's say you're getting TRT from your doctor and that's it and that's all you've ever done. Then dude, if you take 300 tests in itself, man, that's going to be a world of difference. I honestly that in itself would be great. 450 tests, yeah, it's going to be even better. But the higher that test goes, the more you will have to worry about side effects. Like we talked about at the very beginning, like the stages of enhancement. Now you're getting into like actual legit enhanced ranges. the higher you get in those ranges, the the more likely you're going to need to consider controlling it, right? Um, but I would have no problem with, let's say, let's even throw a not a wild number, but we'll say 400 test 300 EQ, you know, something like that. If you're looking to grow, EQ is still available. We don't worry about the master primo since some places it's harder to get right now, but 400 test 300 EQ would be a a splashing cycle. you do fantastic with it, you know, but you know, EQ can affect some people's estrogen. So, I would give it a month and then I would check to see where your estrogen levels are. Have an AI on hand in case you need to wrap that up a little bit, tighten it up. Or if your estrogen's really low, you could always pull the EQ back a little bit. Maybe you're at 400 test, 300 EQ. Maybe you leave it at 300 EQ and in 400 test you'd bring up to, you know, 500, something like that. Then a little bit more test. Maybe that'll bring that estrogen level up a little bit, you know. So either way, you'd be good. You have AI in hand. If the estrogen is too high, you can increase the test a little bit. If the estrogen's too low, that would be my suggestion to you. And if you're going to continue to work on fat loss, you could, you know, I explained low dose Clen. Something like that I think could be beneficial. And the side effects are going to be pretty low if you're just taking 20 micrograms at a time with Clen, you know. And fantastic work, man. You know, that's that's huge, dude. 70 lbs is freaking massive. I'm going to scroll back down to the bottom here. See what else we had. Um, all right. If cutting I'm cutting well on my first cycle of 250 uh test 250 primo 25 anavar 4 iug. Uh, once I get to 8%, should I start to lean bulk with the same compounds and ratios? I want to add some mass safely. I guess it depends on how long it takes to get to that uh that, you know, body fat desert rider. Um, I'll tell you what, man. I feel like every diet that I've done ends with us building it up at the end. You know, like we get to a point, and here's the thing. If you diet hard enough, you're going to reach a point where you're going to need some type of a load meal, you know, or a load day or like a high carb day. So, you keep you get to a point where you're like depleting down, depleting down. Maybe you you hit a wall. You you you're not making much progress. You just seem to be holding more water and then you end up having a cheat meal and then all of a sudden that launches you forward. you know, couple days later you're you're like you're starving and the scales moving again and you're you're hot every time you eat. You know, that's a great place to be. And it also tells us you're in a position where we can probably, you know, strategically add food in at the right times and uh and and and when your body is ready, it will demand more food. You know, I used to make the mistake years and years ago of thinking like a bulk. you just like add more and then you add more on top of that and add more on top of that. Whereas like let's get you into good shape like you're doing right now and eventually you get to a point where the body wants more food and before you know it, you know, we've got the carbs built up really high and you're still losing fat and and people get freaked by that and they're like, "Oh, but I I need to be gaining now. I want to I want to switch this. I want to gain, but the scale is still going down." But I'm like, "Yeah, but you're eating 200 gram carbs more." I promise you, you are gaining more muscle eating 200 grams carbs more. Don't keep pushing it. You know what I'm saying? Ride that out. If you if it allows you to keep getting leaner while keeping those carbs really high, you're probably going to be in a net positive for muscle as you go. We saw that study a while back that was showing that in a 500 calorie deficit, and I'm sure it was natural people studied that you can gain muscle. And I've seen it guys coming out the other side of contest preps that are bigger than when they started. You know, until you get to a certain point, like when you're a big pro level, then you're probably not going to continue to gain muscle through a diet phase. But for the vast majority of people, I really do think that you can continue to grow while in a deficit. So, if you get to that space, man, that would be my thought. I would continue dieting, Desert Rider, until your body demands more food and try to get that food built up while you're still coming down on the scale. You know, like that's the golden place to be. Obviously, you're only going to be able to ride that for so long, but hey, if you can do that for 8 weeks of turning the food up and getting leaner, then more power to you, man. Eventually, it it would take bringing the food back down to to to really get, you know, peeled and at least having some real real low depletion days between those high days. But, you know, yeah, it sounds like you're not trying to get there. It it becomes counterproductive at a certain point. Like you're saying 8% is good by you, dude. If you get to eight 8% you're pretty freaking lean, you know? Um, total newbie. Okay. Total So, this is back to Steve. Total newbie. ever ran a cycle and he was the guy who lost 70 lbs, then I'm going to tell you what, man. Number one, get your testosterone levels checked, right? Make sure that you know what your baseline is because when you come off the cycle, you want to make sure that you can get back to where you were, right? So, do that first. And uh you can get affordable online labs nowadays all over the place. I did see you guys tell me, did you see a big price uh hike in lab work? There has been a big price hike. I saw that Merrick went up a good amount. Like their nonsensitive E2 test used to be 10 bucks. Now it's like 30 something dollars. Uh their test and free test was a lot cheaper. That went up significantly. But uh definitely get your lab work done first. Know where your baseline of test is so that when you do run a cycle after you do a postcycle therapy, you'll want to know like, okay, am I back to baseline? Uh I in your situation, man, literally 300 400 test would be plenty. Like you will grow like a freaking weed absolutely off of something like that. All right. What else do we have here? Oh man, Coach Tom asks about gear uh that benefits for arm wrestling. I can't believe you guys. You guys run as much gear as us bodybuilders, Tom. I've seen the cycles that some of these arm wrestlers are running. And what's cool is a lot of these guys are building their whole physiques. Not all of them, but I know an arm wrestler wrestler locally who has a legit total gym in his basement. Like you have to turn sideways to get between the machines and stuff. He has like probably 20 30 probably good 25 30 machines in his basement including a stairmill and guy's got it set up. But everything's so packed in there. There's tiny little aisles and it's it's all jammed in. Um, man, the same cycles for you would be good for us. And you may even want to look into things that are related to to power. I mean, what would a powerlifter take? That would kind of be my thought. Ultimately, you want to be able to build the muscle up. The more tissue you have, the better. So, there's going to be that anabolic element of like growing, right? But if it came down to like what are we going to use to be as strong as possible, man. Oh, another thing to think about because this is out of my wheelhouse by the way, so I'm just kind of spitballing some stuff at you. I feel like there is like a lot of a lot of tension in those forearm tendons, right? I don't know how much I would want to dry that out with Winstrol or something like that. Maybe some Keep some Deca in there at all times. I don't know. Um, but uh I I would even consider looking at orals for strength uh toward the end. You know, test it out, see where you're at, but something like anadrol or halo as an intermittent thing. I'm not saying every day, but say like the day of the match, you know, I wonder how something like that and the day before, you know, something like, you know, 10 mill 20 milligrams of halo the day of, how would that affect you? you would have to figure that out by having experimented previously. But you can use those things, you know, intraworkout to kind of gauge what they do for you. But, you know, that's a strong freaking powerful uh compound is something like Halo or Anadrol. Um, you know, and the rest of it I really do think would be kind of similar to what we would do. The only thing I would encourage you to stay away from is anything that would dry you out. I feel like we don't want dry joints, dry connective tissue in a situation like yours. I did meet a couple arm wrestlers though. They're they're definitely you guys are you guys are intense people, man. You guys like you guys take that stuff to the extreme much you you're a lot like bodybuilders in your own way. Um, what's the max calories per week coming out of a cut on a reverse diet that I can uh can I add 100 calories per day and up by another 100 uh each week without seeing fat gain? Currently at 10% uh 200 m excuse me 200 test 80 mass two I use GH. Um, everybody's going to be unique, right? I would definitely take it slow. I would personally add in, you know, let's say that you're reversing out now. I might add in I mean, for starters, I might add in a cheat meal first. You know, if you've been on a real strict diet and you're at a point where you're like, "Oh god, I'm going to die if I don't have a cheat meal." Let's add a cheat meal in and leave the food where it is. So, you get a cheat meal and then you go back on plan and then we re-evaluate like after like on the fourth day after the cheat meal and we see where you're at. You know, that that might be my first thought. Then depending, let's see, how big did you say you are? Um, you didn't say so it depends on your size, too, but let's just say you're looking at your picture. Let's say you're 200 lb. uh just for the sake of conversation, you know, maybe 45 grams of carbs, you know, a cup of rice, something like that. And then watch how you respond, you know, I I would leave it. Watch what that does. And then don't add more food just based off of, you know, like what can I do at my max. I would just leave that because you may continue to increase increase or you eat that and watch you suck it up and get tighter and drop lower. you know, your your the answer is going to be different, you know, depending on how your body responds. All right, what else do we have here? James said he sent a question on IG. Uh, but happy to share the pick. I don't have the questions pulled up from IG. We're just going with them off here. James, you're welcome to toss one in. We got a little bit of time left here. Oh, let me get back to one thing I did want to tell you about. I have two more things I want to share, too. Number one is um I'm working with a guy who just he had never used EQ before, and we don't know if it's the EQ he bought or if it's just EQ in general, but he's had a couple bad shots. We started a new cycle. He did a glute shot and it began to swell and was painful. He did a delt shot uh a couple days later and it began to swell and was painful. We had to stop the cycle there, re-evaluate what we're doing and get this pain under control. Now, there let's talk about trying to recover a site that you've had a bad shot in. All right, so I'm not going to get into infections. That's a whole other thing. But do keep in mind even if you do have a sterile shot that is irritating enough that in itself can cause a sterile infection. Your body is sensing that there's like a foreign attacker in here. It'll want to wall that crap off because it reads, you know, it reads the test or the hormone or the solvent. It reads all of that as an foreign invader. It's going to want to wall that off. And if it does, that's how an abscess forms. So, we want to definitely avoid that. Now, if you get a bad shot and it's starting to swell, you know, I'm not a fan of like, hey, let's run a bunch of NSAIDs all the time, but I would definitely bring an NSAID in ASAP. You know, try to get that inflammation process cut off. Like, let's hack the inflammatory process because if we can cut that off in the first 24 hours, we are definitely going to speed up how fast an an injury can recover. And that goes for injuries in the gym, too. Let's say you're in the gym and you tweak your back and you know, oh crap, this is it. I would suggest getting home, eating your next meal and taking, you know, 600 800 ibuprofen with that. Assuming obviously you're a healthy individual can take an ibuprofen and and try to let's hack that inflammatory process. You know, if you can hack that in the first 24 hours, you are going to dramatically speed up your recovery. Now, here's a thing that I haven't heard people talk about much, and that is compression. All right. Now, I found this. I've had a bad quad shot that starts swelling on me, and I know that the gear is good. The gear is clean, but it just didn't sit right. It's irritating. I've used an ACE bandage to lightly wrap that quad. Now, I'm not talking about like heavy heavy, you know, constriction. We're not trying to olude the leg, but just light light compression I found. And you know, put that on and maybe you you have a few hours. Oh, I didn't take my morning supplements today. Oh crap. And I just pulled my headphones out. Things are falling apart here, aren't they? Sorry, guys. Um I just felt my leg and I realized my pocket is full of vitamins. I got to get on that. I take a lot of vitamins, guys. These are if you can see that these are all my morning my morning stack. If you ever wanted me to, I could go through what all of those are, but uh they're all for, you know, specific things. Anyway, um yeah, so uh anyway, like I was saying though that if you uh lightly compress that area, it does help to push that inflammation out. You may wake up in the morning feeling way way better. So, I figured I'd throw that to you. Um, I I don't suggest like heavily massaging a super inflamed spot, you know, but you know, you get through a couple of But, you know, you could do, let's say it's a quad shot again, you could get some light blood flow into it, you know, ride the bike. Just getting that blood flow in is going to help to uh, you know, move around your your blood, get fresh blood in there. Basically, when an area gets inflamed, it's like a traffic jam, you know. So all the blood is trying to rush in to carry away waste materials to to be able to bring you know uh bits of you know new um growth peptides and recovery peptides like MGF-1 to help to to get this area to repair. That said uh sorry I got a few texts that are coming in all of a sudden. Uh that said um you know if the blood all gets trapped in there that process can't happen. It's kind of like gridlock. You know it's like a traffic jam. So, we get that blood flow going. It'll help to to speed that process up. Little bit of light compression help to speed that process up. Heating pad will help to speed that process up. And then after a few days, now this is after it's you're already on the road to recovery. That's where we could start doing massage. You know, just light massage like my uh I got I've got one of these the gun. I'll tell you what, this thing comes in handy for all sorts of injuries. Uh, I'm not saying you need to buy this brand, but I do believe that the gun is a good overall brand to use. I know they are a little bit they are more expensive. Um, but you know, anyway, that was the that was one thing I wanted to make sure that I got in here was just talking about trying to recover from a a bad shot. And then honestly, I would work that site out of rotation for at least several weeks, you know. Um, I I think it's a mistake that once you've had a site that was inflamed, even if it's like 80% better, I I just still would leave better alone, you know, because if you go ahead and put another shot in there, even if it sits okay, it's already that site is already irritated and I'm afraid that you're going to make it a lot worse. So, I'm going to throw that at you. Um, all right. Barbells and Music says, "Hey, buddy. Love this. Uh how do I make semiglutide trapide reatide start working again after high stem cycles with tren T3 clen yohim bind etc they no longer have an effect and I'm rebounding dang it is interesting I will tell you guys that I've noticed that the more GLP1s people use the more they do get used to it you know I can even see it in myself. 2 milligrams of reatride is not doing for me what it used to do, you know, as far as appetite control goes. Um, I mean, gosh, I I think that at the end of the day, the only thing that I've seen work is, you know, for for compounds in general has been taking breaks. Um, it's a rough spot to be, especially if you've kind of dug yourself into a position where you need it. Um, yeah. I'm sorry I don't have a better answer. I would love to hear what you guys have to say. You know, unfortunately, I don't think the answer is taking more. All right. Uh, on semiglut time at the moment, trying to eat clean. Just lost 10 kilograms so far. Uh, should I keep cutting? He says, "I'm skinny fat at the moment. Should I keep cutting?" Yeah, Matthew. So, I'll tell you what, man. I I'll tell you what, man. At the end of the day, there's a lot of guys in your position. You know that maybe they're holding fat. Um, but ultimately they want to grow. I do think that getting into better shape is going to be the goal first. And in that process, you are able to gain muscle. I think that it's a mistake to think that you need to either be cutting or bulking. You know, I think that I think that you can do both at once. In fact, I've shown you guys this picture before. Let me see if I can find it here again real quick. This is my example of Yep, I got it here. Here is uh client and friend of mine, Vachce. So, picture on the left is the very beginning of a contest prep. Picture on the right is about five or so weeks after the show. After the show, he didn't go to a rebound diet. He didn't do anything special. He just quit dieting. Just went back to eating whatever he wanted. No question. It was a long prep, too. 20 22 weeks. Um I every time I worked with him, we had to go to keto. There were probably even points of protein only. He may even have gone down to uh or he may even gone up to like two hours of cardio for all I know. He had to do a lot. He had to work hard to get into shape and he wasn't a big guy, you know, but he got peeled every time and uh and he was natural so it's not like it was peed induced but just through consistently following the diet through the whole process and through training hard he ended up gaining more muscle and this is like I said natural on a keto diet. if he can do that, you know, and I I think a lot of people can do more than they realize um when it comes to gaining muscle in a diet. So, I would just say continue to focus, Steve, on trying to get in the best shape that you can in the process. Um, Barry 1696 says, "Uh, if you're pre-diabetic or type two, should you just stay away from HGH or is insulin a must?" You know, I've talked to people who are uh highle competitors that are diabetic, including IFB Pro, who just doesn't use growth hormone. you know, at the end of the day, it's not a makeorb breakak type thing. So, I honestly and the diabetics that I have worked with, none of them have used growth or were interested in using growth. Um, you know, if we get into a position where we need to doctor your blood sugar with insulin because of your growth hormone dosing. I feel like that's a problem in itself. Um, and that's not saying that we can't use exogenous insulin as a peed, but if we are dependent on it just to stay healthy and we don't need to take it, I find that if the lower we can get the insulin, the better off we can do. I found that uh diabetics, type 1 diabetics that I've worked with, the lower we can get their insulin needs, the better they can do. And I can't remember what the dosing was, how many units we had gotten him to, but we had I I had done some experimentation and we had a number for for one particular guy where we found that it was and I don't want to throw a number out there um but we we had a number that we had realized that after we got him to x amount of units per day that and I it was under 20. I can't remember if it was under 10 though, so I I think it was under 20. But um we got him into a position though where like every time we could get him in a position where his body required less than that amount, that's where he made his ultimate best progress. And I've seen that before. Yeah. Casey says that's the hardest part uh with any uh screwing up is not shaming yourself for it when you screw up and thinking that you need to be perfect. Just don't quit. You're absolutely right, man. This is uh this is a a game where it's you versus you. And you know what? If you make a mistake, own it because the faster you can own that, the faster you can learn from it and not make the same mistakes again. Uh I'm trying to see. Let's see what else do I have. You guys have been so freaking awesome. Who's still with me, by the way? And also, by the way, we have 166 people. hanging out right now. Hey, listen. If you haven't hit the like button and you are enjoying this, would you please do me the favor of hitting the like button now because it is going to help after we're done here. It's going to help uh to keep this thing moving out. I want to try to get, you know, as many views as we can on this video. So, thank you very much. I appreciate you guys being here. Everybody who has commented, everybody who has hit the like button already, you're freaking awesome. Thank you. And if you haven't yet, I see those like buttons coming in right now. Thank you guys. It's It's greatly appreciated. It makes a big difference. It It doesn't like push our content into your algorithm, but it does help me to get other people to see it. Really, it's it's crazy because at the end of the day, you know, I and I love it. You guys have messaged me. A lot of you guys have messaged me and been like, "Hey, you know, thank you for doing this show. It's helped me get through my prep or through my day at work or whatever." And you know, you always hear like famous, like I'm talking real famous people that are like, "Oh, well, if it wasn't for our fans, you know, I'm but I get that because literally if it wasn't for you right now, who would I be talking to? I would be crazy talking to myself in my office right now." So, it really is because of you guys. And I appreciate you and our growth. Any growth you see with our channel, it's because of you, too. if you guys weren't here uh watching and liking and commenting, like seriously, if it wasn't for you, then the channel would just freaking not grow, period. So, I try to put out the content that you guys enjoy. And uh you know, I I I I try to stick with that. And you know, of course, I I want to have fun with this. So, there are probably some things that you guys just tolerate because, you know, I want to talk about it. I appreciate you going through listening through that stuff, too. Um, does generics versus farmer really matter? And I assume we're talking about we we'll assume you're talking about growth here. Um, and okay, I've used some pharmarmacrowth. All right. I wouldn't say that it was that different than a good generic. Uh for me, you know, I I've worked with guys who have had more side effects on generics and better tolerated and had better experiences uh or excuse me, more side effects with pharma and had less side effects and a better experience with a good generic like better results with a good generic. So, you know, I know that Bill Llewellyn did some research back 20 years ago on hyotropins and he found that hi G's at the time and that doesn't mean it's the same because everything the game's changed so many times since then, right? But, uh, he found that hygiene was actually at that time more pure than one of the pharma growths that he tested. Um, but it was at a fraction of the price kind of. You know, I I I'll tell you what is growth hormone made differently. Here's what you're going to get from pharma for sure. Is assuming that it's real pharma because there's also that there's a lot more fakes. Growth hormone is a huge market to fake. A lot of money to be made. Um, you're going to get a consistent product for sure. You know, that said, if you know where to get good generics and you have a source that you trust, at least for now, whatever batch you have that's good, you can trust that good batch, right? So, it's but is the next batch going to be as good? We, you know, there's no promises ever even for a good source that you trust. Uh, and that's part of the game that we're in. Um, if you know you can't afford it, what would be better? You know, the price of say running a two units of Norditrope versus, you know, let's say five units of a high quality generic. I don't know. You know, first of all, how does your body respond to the Nordies versus how do you respond to the generics? You know, um, if you can tolerate five units of generics, maybe that would be the better buy because you're able to run a lot more of it. Um, you know, I think that we do get some confirmation biased with with the pharma because when you're investing that much money, you you're like, "Oh, yeah. I really see the difference." But I think at the end of the day, you know, as great as growth is, and there are some awesome benefits to it, I still do think that it's always been a it's a little overhyped. You know, I I think there are good benefits, but yeah. What else do we have going on here, guys? Um, Peter Burns says, "Uh, howdy, Scott. Cheers for the t-shirts, by the way." Oh, this is Peter Burns who won the contest on, uh, the the Drugs and Stuff podcast with Dave. Question is, will 10 milligrams of Anavar make a noticeable difference on top of my 200 milligrams of test? um with two IU. Uh oh, excuse me. 80 milligrams mass 2i GH. Uh still have a few drinks, drinking nights with gigs, etc. # liver. Um I mean it depends on what your goals are. You know, if we go back to the beginning, if you are looking for TRT plus results, then absolutely, you know, you're going to get some increased performance. Uh we did that podcast with Scott about I think it was titled are are all anabolic do all anabolics equally grow muscle? Something like that. And um looking at the studies, it showed that it was between 40 to 60 milligrams of Anavar was an optimal dose for gaining muscle. So you know, is 10 milligrams enough? You're going to get something out of it. But honestly, I if your goal is to be enhanced, let's look at it that way. Let's talk about the difference between TRT plus getting a little bit of a boost versus looking to be enhanced. No, you know, um you're not. But I would also look at the alcohol because alcohol it it takes us out of fat loss. Number one, a lot of times too, people don't count the actual grams of alcohol. Each gram of alcohol is seven calories versus each gram of carb is four. Each gram of fat is nine. So we're kind of right in the middle there. So, you know, don't forget you're getting a lot of extra calories through that, too. It definitely offsets uh a deficit. There's no question if you have a few drinks. I've unfortunately worked with people who can't stop drinking that maybe they do good through the week and then on the weekends they hit it hard. And what ends up happening is, you know, a lot of times we look at fat loss like this. We're like, "Oh, I followed my diet today, so that means I lost a lot of fat." The way I see it, it doesn't work that way. I followed my diet today, so now I'm starting to get depleted and getting into a better position to lose fat. And then you follow it tomorrow and get a little more depleted, a little more depleted, a little more depleted. Blood sugar's consistently been lower and lower and lower, you know, and we're we're riding low BG levels now for a cons consistent period of time. Now we're in a good window to start losing fat, right? Versus if you were to then have a cheat meal, it's going to start that process over. And if you drink some alcohol, maybe it's if you drink one glass of wine on the one drink on the weekend, it's not going to be anything. If you have a few drinks, it definitely will offset that to a degree, you know. Um, it alcohol literally will shut the fat loss process off. Um, do you want to combine oral gear with drinks and alcohol? I I would I would encourage you to go another direction, you know, than increasing the oral because you are definitely putting more stress on your body, right? And longterm, just the antivirone, that's enough stress, right? And uh at least while you're on it, maybe take a break um from the drinking. Let's see here. What else do we have? Oh my god, you guys are freaking awesome here, by the way, with all these comments. And I got a few thumbs downs today. But that's okay because they helped too. Can't believe it. If somebody doesn't like the show, why would they give me a thumbs down? Why don't they just leave? But whatever, it is what it is. You have to grow thick skin. I had somebody say the other day on that uh that interview I did uh with Rick Collins. They were like, uh, it's funny how these influencers are buying pro mics and pretending to be journalists. And I was like, bro, I didn't say anything to him, but I was like, bro, I've been pretending to be a journalist for over a decade now. That's what I thought to myself. All right, let me double check the super chats here. See if there's anything else that I haven't gotten to. And uh I'm going to be recording with uh Ron and Dusty here little bit today for our Wednesday show. I think we're going to be doing a couple shows actually. Um let's see what else is going on here. And I see a couple of you guys commenting, so I want to get back to that. We talked about You know what? We'll we'll talk a little bit more about ride a true tide next time. Trend in a growth phase. I was going to get into that, but we went into all sorts of other stuff. Um I mean I I've talked to you guys about it before. I I don't see a problem with trending a growth phase. I mean it's a freaking strong steroid, right? I think you can get some great growth from it, but you definitely want to keep it in context. Um it's not something that I would use for a new guy. It's but I you know what I've had some people that like that's the compound they respond best to and we've used Tren in the offseason and hey everybody is unique. Everybody's different. It's not the first thing I think of though. That's for sure. Let's see here. Scroll back down to the bottom. See what you guys are saying behind my back right now. Thanks Jake. I appreciate you man. Um let's see. barbells and music said, wait, we'll get back to him. Cornelius says, uh, alcohol is literally a poison. If you are taking, uh, building your body seriously, you do not drink. Yeah, it's bodybuilding 101, that's for sure. But the way I look at it, man, is that everybody is in their own place and it's not my place to to judge. You know what I mean? So, I agree with you 100% though, Cornelius. Like, there's no question in my mind, man. And also, I want to see people make the best progress they can, and they're not going to do that on alcohol. And I think that's my main point. So, it comes down to like, you know, what's more important to you, you know, the drinking, even if it's just a few rare drinks, or is it going to be the progress? For me, it's going to be the progress. Um, I won't forget my vitamins. Thanks. I have on my way desk here. Um, take one right now. I have like 30 left. I'll take the rest when we're done. Okay, back to barbells and music though. Let's get what he says. And he says, uh, did a big cycle test trend masked T3 7500 clen neoh him. Yeah. Yeah. So, this I I tried to approach it, man. I'm sorry. I don't have an answer for you. The problem is retride now doesn't work at all help. I mean, my first thought would be coming off of coming off of it, giving yourself I would give it, you know, like eight weeks clean, honestly, and down on TRT. You know, I it may have been I don't know what your history was, what your situation was, why you how much you used then, how much you're using now. Um maybe you just needed more. I don't know. You know, I found that for me, starting at a very small dose, like one milligram per week, it was split into a couple doses, did very little. Got to two milligrams and I felt a strong effect. And now I don't feel a strong effect at 2 milligrams. So, I'm I'm right there with you. Um I it it doesn't have the same effect that it did on me before. Uh I am going to go up, you know, and I decided that this week. I'm going to go up a little bit to 3 milligrams and just push it a little bit further, but eventually I'm going to come off of it altogether and and take a break. And I'm going to do that well before I build that dose up too high, you know? So, I think that it's important to like be mentally prepared. You know, maybe you need to get yourself out of a deficit first because it can be a lot if you're not used to dealing with hunger. If you haven't been used to dealing with hunger and now all of a sudden you're starving. So, it might be a matter of uh trying to build the diet back up. GLP1s will hit a wall at some point. Uh DGP uh Holy Hang Grenade, nice name, says uh good one to two months off is what you need to restart. Yeah, I I would agree. That's what I would suggest, too. I don't think there's an instant fix. You know, um, while you're taking downtime and you have the food turned up a little bit higher, you can look at trying to keep your blood sugar under control, manage that, you know, through your nutrition. Maybe it's going to be less carbs, a little bit more fats. Um, you could also try to use some bourberine, try to leverage that, uh, to help to to control blood sugar a little bit. Obviously, it's not going to be the same thing as a GLP-1, but you know, you'll get some benefit out of uh Bourberine. I think it's a fantastic supplement. So, I definitely say though that it is probably just time for a break and then give yourself, you know, down the road, 8 weeks or whatever, then then re-evaluate and keep that in mind because you learned a valuable lesson that, you know, excuse me, eventually the road runs out. Added Primo three weeks ago and upped the carbs and calories by 400 calories, but not seeing an eight pound swing. Does Primo cause water retention or is my body not responding to the carbs? Okay. Upped carbs and calories by 400. So 400 is a pretty good amount overall. I generally would increase it by about 40 50 carbs at a time and then I would wait to see what happened, you know, and and it depends on like what did your food look like before. Uh, you know, if if you're eating 400 more calories, but you were only eating 1,200 calories before, that's a pretty big percentage increase, you know. I mean, regardless though, 400 calories is a good amount, you know. That's that's like you know that's that's a good amount. It's like a couple cups of rice. That's that's a good amount of carbs to have increased. So going on cycle you know you are going to hold more water overall more glycogen in the muscle. My big question to you is how does it look? You know are you on primo only or let's see you added primo 3 weeks ago. I mean is your primo real is another question. There's a lot of question right now about primo. It's harder to source. I'm seeing some people tell me that, oh, my sources still sell Primo and Mast and Mass P and Massd and it's, you know, all the same prices as it's always been. And then I've seen other sources that I know are real legit that have been around a long time and they're saying, "Hey, I'm paying more for raw powders now, guys. So, in turn, their prices have gone up. you know, if your prices haven't gone up and the availability never shifted at all, I' I'd be concerned about that, you know. So, I I would wonder, is it real primo? But can you gain 8 pounds while increasing calories by 400? Yes. So, it could be either of those things, you know. Um, let's see. Let's see if we got anything else that I need to hit here real quick. uh trend in bodybuilding. Ooh, yikes. That's crazy. Cornelius Crystal M. We'll just call it that. Huh. Yeah. I, you know, I've seen people who have said like, you got to have aderall, you know, for a prep. I'm like, what? You got to have what? And I never took that before, you know, but they have it like this is what you need. If you're going to work with me, you have to have this list of things, you know. And I I think that there are people out there like I think here's the deal is that as bodybuilders at times we are looking for excuses to take more stuff, you know, and uh and justify it. So I mean I don't know. I mean would it work? I mean, you could ask uh what's his name? Um Heavy Duty, Mr. Heavy Duty, Mike Mener. Uh would would that Crystal M stuff work? I bet you that he would have a lot of experience and you know, look where it landed him. Also, Craig Titus was a big fan as well from what I understood in the news reports. I'm not saying it wouldn't work, you know what I mean? But yeah, I mean I I as you could tell being in my possession, I am not going to be a fan. Yeah. Let's see. Oh, what's this say? I heard Chase say Chase Irons. He's talking about that uh with generics he got terrible Oh, yeah. So he got terrible edema from uh generics and with serim it was a huge difference for him. Guess everybody is different. Yeah, dude. I'm telling you, man. Because then I've worked with and I think that that is going to be more common for some people. And then for others, it doesn't matter. And then yet for others, I'd worked with a guy for several years and then he got Pharma GH from his doctor and we're like, "Oh, this is going to be the year, man." And dude, he bloated up so much. We literally couldn't see any of the detail. Like we were just in like gridlock. We couldn't tell if he was making progress or not because he was so bloated. He just like ballooned out. And it's like, well, are you gaining muscle now? I don't know. Are you getting fatter now? I don't know. So, we had to pull it out and we're like, okay, let's cut this back to, you know, I think one unit. We was doing just like two units maybe, right? So, we cut it back to one unit. Same thing. We took it all the way out and then he finally, you know, after a couple weeks cleared and then we're like, okay, let's bring it in at a half a unit and we're like, uh, okay, this is a little messy, but we can deal with it, but is a half a unit really worth it? You know what I mean? So, yeah. Cornelius says, uh, a lot of you romanticize pharmaceutical grade for some reason more special than it actually is. Um, if you saw how it was created, uh, as long as the ingredients are the same as certain standards are kept. Yeah. Yeah. I I'm I'm more or less with with what you're saying there, Cornelius. Um, oh, here's one on methylene blue if you've tried it. Okay, so here's the deal. I'll keep this quick on methylene blue. It does help to basically rewire the way your body uses oxygen from what I understand. And so when I've had a more difficult time breathing due to just some autoimmune health stuff that I picked up from getting the bug, the virus back 5 years ago, I'm finding now that a very low dose, 5 to 10 milligrams, is it does help me to kind of rewire that breathing. Now, I also had looked at some cool stuff from a researcher who was saying everybody thinks they're hacking the their bodies and that this is all good, but you know, if you already are healthy, I don't know if we like hacking hacking your system in the way that it works, you know, thinking that you're going to do a better job than your body already does, you might be in for a rude awakening if you're doing that long term, right? So, I found that long-term methylene blue, not for me. it makes me spacey feeling. But intermittently, say on a specific day, like a leg day, when I'm already telling that my oxygen doesn't feel as strong, then I I'm finding 5 milligrams is a good place for me. So, it's a very specific application, right? All right. Well, listen, I have to get out of here, guys, and I appreciate the heck out of you. Uh, you guys are freaking awesome. And once again, if you haven't hit that like button, please do because I I can see right now we gotund freaking 79 people. This is awesome. And uh I appreciate you guys being here. And we have 123 likes. So you guys gave me a bunch of likes since I asked you last time. I really appreciate that. And it really is you guys that that are helping this channel to grow. Um, I've got to take a break from talking and then in uh about an hour I'm recording two episodes with Ron and Dusty. Today we're doing an interview with a a wheelchair pro bodybuilder and then we're going to do a regular show too. I think we might be talking a little bit about um Nexzilla winning in Prague, right? That's where he won this this past weekend. So, I'll be excited to get with those guys. They're always a lot of fun to record with. Um, yeah. I I I see a few more questions. If I could get to them, I would. And yes, Angry Listener says, "Hit the like. It's free." It is free. And it it's it's kind of like saying, uh, you know, thank you. It's a And you know what? If I can do something to to make you guys to make your day better, uh, I am grateful to do that. So, I appreciate everybody who's done the same for me, and I appreciate the hell out of you guys taking the time to hang out with me here. Um, I'll I'll be honest, you didn't see me do one of these for a little while. I got really busy, as you know, things tend to be. Um, and I do have a few people I need to respond to that want to work with me for coaching. So, if you're one of those people, stay tuned and I will get back to you. I I don't do massive coaching, like I'm not just pumping people through. I like to take my time and enjoy what I'm doing working with people and kind of get to know what your day and your life looks like so that I'm not just throwing a generic plan at you. I want to It takes time to do that. You know what I'm saying? So, uh, thanks for bearing with me and thank you guys for being here. Um, I'll plan to do another one of these sooner than later. I mean, my initial goal was to do one once a month. I'd love to stick to that, but then if somebody keeps coming at me when I have the free time and Kuba is like, "Hey, I want to record another one." I'm like, "Let's do it." Or VJ is like, like, "Okay, let's go." V is like two weeks out right now, by the way, from his next show. So, we should probably get VJ back on. I want to see how he's looking. I mean, I've seen how he's looking, but I want you guys to see how he's looking and, you know, tell us what he's up to. V's always got some crazy training plans or some crazy gear concoction that he's running. I know he has been like dialing it in like he's really trying to push hard now that he's going. So, anyway, you guys are freaking awesome and uh I love doing this. So, thank you for being here and uh stay tuned for the next one. Stay tuned for a bunch more stuff. We've got a Kuba one in the bank, so I need to edit that and get that out, of course. And then Dave and I will be back next week. Dave couldn't make it this week. His car broke down last week. Him and uh Rick Collins and I were supposed to record drugs and stuff together, so that didn't happen. I did drugs and stuff on my own, and then I was like, let's just get this out so you guys can see it sooner. See the whole thing on the research chem and peptide situation. Uh but yeah, Dave and I were record and we will be back. So, I appreciate you guys. You're freaking awesome. and uh for another episode here at Think Big. I'll see you soon. Thank you.