We've got two shots that went into the glute. All 100 milligrams every single time. One was in four mil. That's this plot here. Right. So that's the diluted. And when it was more concentrated Mhm. we see a curve that's much higher. Wow. Okay. That's pretty substantial. Right. Interesting. If the injection was in the deltoid, we had value and this was with one mil. So this was the concentration. And then we're down at this curve. So this is glute with a 1 mil 100 milligram per mill injection. This is what you get on the deltoid. Better overall blood levels from a glute shot with a higher concentration. The area under the curve is greater for glute over delt and the concentration helps as well. So the question I have here, I haven't seen this but um what what's what's going on here in terms of activity of those muscles? Glute muscle fibers are not different than delt muscle fibers, but the morphology of the muscle, the shape of the muscle, the size of the muscle, and the activity of the muscle are all all different. Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McN. And all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by Scott's book, bobbcoach.com. That's beyou own bodybuilding coach. We'll have a link in the description to the book at eBay. You can pick it up there and Scott will autograph it. He's sending it out to you. Um, and you can also, of course, get the ebook at bobbcoach.com. Uh, we're also brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think now for 10% off of all your orders, which is a better deal than they used to give us. And, uh, I've got a commission based thing going with them now. So, uh, it's cool to to see you guys helping to support the programming through buying great supplements that are going to help you reach your goals. At the end of the day, that's what I really want is to see you guys reach your goals the best you can. Take the best supplements you can. And if you're in Canada, supplements.ca for Canadians, they have great deals that change week to week. I saw some highly branched cigrin over there for like 20 bucks for a tub of it. They hit it on a closeout deal. So, get it while you can. Their sales change every week. Scott, we're gonna revisit some cool stuff that we haven't talked about in a few years. I bet you there's a bunch of our listeners that haven't heard about this. Um, this was your request. This is a request. I'm excited, man, because you know, we see it written that test SIP has a 10.5 day halflife. test e has a 7-day halflife. Test probe is a three. All this stuff, you open my eyes. Uh, and and I think you're going to open the eyes of some of our listeners. You've got some research here. Uh going to talk about half- livives and and and as you called it pharmaccoinetics of uh AAS. Does that sound right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean we're going to have to sort of extrapolate because we don't have these kinds of studies in a polyfarm pharmacy situation with someone who's been doing stuff for 5 years, right? Yeah. Um but there's some hints there. I I got to dig into some things that I hadn't um that I had seen before and now I kind of put them together and process them a little more differently. So, I think I need to share my screen. All right. Um I love this stuff. I feel like I'm back in school or something when you when you share screen. Let's see. Oh, it doesn't want to do that. All right. Let's see here. Uhhuh. It has an option to share a presentation, but maybe you have to load it up through Riverside or something because Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. That would be cool. Maybe I'll try that. That'll be the next thing we'll do. All right. So, you you can see this. Now, I'm going to go This always gets me because I'm going to I have two screens here. I have two I have my laptop and then I have an external monitor. So, good. Now, I can you can you guys can you can see now just the uh Just a presentation. Just a presentation. You guys probably can see my my your our mugs, too. So, um yeah, this is this is there was I think it was episode 103, 102 where I went through the first couple of these slides that was part of the 100, 101, 102 studies you should know or studies worth knowing. And you wanted to revisit this. You asked me like, "Hey, do you still have that?" I'm like, "Yeah, of course I do." Um, yeah, this all goes into the master the mastermind database, the muscle mind database. Um, so I kind of revisited this and I added a few things. Um, and the subtitle there is is behind the curtain of the random muscle generator. And that's facitious. But the idea there is that some people respond to gear really well, some people don't respond as well. And I've got a whole another topic, another presentation on why you don't look like a pro. And there's numerous things that I'll maybe touch on here. We can talk about them if you want that are related to responsiveness to anabolic steroids or even TRT. That's where a lot of it's sort of been studied in the context, for instance, of prostate cancer and variations in the androgen receptor that are predictive of someone's risk for prostate cancer. The more the greater affinity you have in your androgen receptor, the more likely you are to have prostate cancer, unfortunately. Those sorts of things. But this is about mainly just injectables. And this is the idea of the both the body and the drug. So we've got the pharmacocinetics, what the body does to the drug and the pharmacodnamics are what the drug does to the body. So those are the two kind of main branches of pharmarmacology. Ah sorry some of that stuff is I tried to I got this all fancified up but it's not all perfect. So um first first study here um and this is stuff we've gone through. So like you said, half- livives are just this is what the halflife is. Like you look it up, you just Google it and you find the number, right? Um this was a study where they had basically two variables that they changed the esther. This is something we knew about, right? Um as well as for the decanoate esester, this was a nandallone um injectable that they tested here. Actually, you have to take it back. Three variables that that were different. and the decanoid estester they tested the muscle that it was injected in and as well as the concentration in the injectable itself. So, first things first, everyone's looking at that top curve. That's for fetal propionate. Um, if you go out to about 5 days, uh, PP like NPP, it it actually is as you got elevated blood levels for for quite a while, longer than many people would suspect. Um, and you got an area under curve here um, that's very different. Initially, NPP goes up and comes back down, but decade has a much longer halflife. If you look at the y axis there, let's see here. There it is. Um, they changed the scale here. Ah, okay. That's why it's such AST such a big drop off. Yeah. Well, this they went out to five four or five days here and then, you know, these segments used to represent one day and now it becomes five days. That makes more sense, man. Cuz I was looking at that. I was like, geez, does it just drop off after 5 days? That's important to see. They they there's some dis a discontinuity in the plot here. Um but yeah, but deca is going to go up increase and it's going to stay out and then it stops starts to drop off depending on which uh location it's injected um to some degree there's some variation as well as the concentration. So this is where things kind of get interesting. We've got three different or different situations here for the deanoids. We've got two shots that went into the glute. All 100 milligrams every single time. One was in four mills. So that's a that's a that's more than a 3 cc injection. Um use probably a 5 cc syringe to do that. That's this plot here, right? So that's the diluted. And when it was more concentrated, Mhm. we see a curve that's much higher. Wow. Okay. That's pretty substantial, right? Interesting. If the injection was in the deltoid, we had value and this was with one mil. So this was the concentration. Then we're down at this curve. So this is glute with a 1 mil 100 milligram per mill injection. This is what you get on the deltoid. So better overall absorption or or well better overall blood levels from a a glute shot with a higher concentration. The area Yeah. the area under the curve is greater for glute over delt and the concentration helps as well at least when we're comparing glute to glute right. Yeah. Okay. Um so the question I have here I haven't seen this but um what what's what's going on here in terms of activity of those muscles? So like I mean one thing I can say is if you look at over the course of when people age um upper body muscle is is is doesn't get lost as easily as lower body muscle um because the change in activity is greater there. If you're in the glutes and you're not doing any like you're not doing glute kickbacks on a regular basis, what have you, is that muscle less active than a delt where you're constantly moving things. You're sitting at your computer, you're reaching, you're grabbing things, you're eating, your delts more active. How does that change? And how does that change then when someone injects the muscle that they're maybe trying to sighten enhance, right? Or the muscle that's active a lot in training. So that's another factor that I haven't seen because normally these they do the injection and they the person just goes about their daily business. So to what degree is this difference because of action activity of that muscle throughout the day? Yeah. just simply moving things because when it when a bolus is injected, it sits in that in that bolus. It sits and hopefully it doesn't swell up, but that's where it will sit and it'll slowly dissipate and the rate at which it dissipates depends on the length of the asterified fatty acid. So, but also it depends that's the one main factor, but also depends on which muscle it's in. And glute muscle fibers are not different than delt muscle fibers, but the morphology of the muscle, the shape of the muscle, the size of the muscle, and the activity of the muscle are all all different. So that's something to recognize is you in this at least with DECA, they didn't do it with NPP here, but at least with DECA, you get less bang for your buck if you do a delt injection versus a glute injection. Yeah. So someone who doesn't do glute injections because they can't anymore or someone who who um always does they're trying to do sight enhancement on their delts that may have an effect for different reasons but you may be getting less area under the curve so to speak at least if you're doing a deca injection right so yeah this and it's almost like can can we I mean it's almost it is half as much half as much activity would you say at least at like day one to yeah for the first four or five days. It's definitely lower. I'd have to go and look. I could look the paper up. It's Mento at al 1996 for someone who wants to dig that up. Easy to find. Um and they will put the they will put total area under the curve. Yeah. And I suppose if I'm doing say four shots a week or whatever, so you're getting one that's a little bit less, one that's a little bit more. I I don't know. It probably, you know what I mean? You don't I've never noticed it in in real life practice that like you know, oh man, I don't feel as much after taking that delt shot. It's hard to tell once you're really on, you know, and when you're on and you got a polyfarm pharmacy and you've got a super physiological load, right? Right. Right. Yeah. Exactly. You wouldn't know notice these. There's so many things that might be changing, but this is a pretty substantial effect. Yeah. And like you know what if some people are injecting lats, some people are in and you know obviously quad injections are pretty common. Some people do calves, biceps, triceps. Yeah. So it's a factor, right, that could could be playing a role. And there's and there's some variability here. These are our our error bars for instance here. Yeah. And so for this lower concentration glutial value, the air bars aren't as big on the delt. They're it's pretty close, but air bars on the glute. If I drew a negative arrow arrow bar, there's a lot of overlap. This is probably not significantly difference. The less concentrated glute versus the more concentrated delt. Yeah. Right. So, this is interesting, too, that there's so much vari there's much more variability there. So, that's a factor. Um, carry oil makes is a makes a difference. This is a study from 1999. They compared castor and tea oil. Um and uh here this is a thousand milligrams of testosterone undecinate. So this is what's used in TRT sometimes. So what we see here is a is a is a different area under the curve. Teed oil is much better than castor as far as a carrier oil go. The curve is basically all the way out until like 50 plus days. We've got higher values for teed oil. M but interestingly enough castor oil has a it has a longer halflife right but less value so that shorter half or sorry it's longer you're like oh that's better it's going to be hanging around longer right yeah but the halflife is relative to its half maximum value which was substantially less right so that that longer halflife isn't doesn't behoove you if the peak values in the area of the curve are less it just means You're getting longer of much less, right? Yeah. You're getting for a longer period of time, you're getting less because if we look like let's take the halflife here, the tea oil is 22 days. So this is this is the half the halflife period. Here's where we are. And if we go out at that same time, it's still got castor oil beat. And we go all the way out to 34 days right here. the castor oil some right there. It's still got castor oil beat. Yeah. By even a larger margin now. It it looks like right. We got some We got larger air bars there too, interestingly enough. Oh, I see. But it's also a larger value. So, that makes sense. You know, smaller values will have smaller error bars. Air bars are some relative percentage of whatever um the value itself is. But we go out to this longer half. You say, "Oh, castor oil's got a longer halflife. That's what I'd rather use." Well, the tea oil gives you you get more bang for your buck if you even if you go out to that longer halfife. So, the area under the curve value um is what we're looking at. So, uh castor oil is a very thick oil. Are you familiar with tea seed oil? I'm not. No, I hardly see it mentioned. It's interesting that it's not. I wonder if it's a thinner oil overall. I know like there's a lot of companies using MCT oil now is super popular and then there's all the different super solvents that are very thin too. Um so I wonder how that fits in. Who knows? Maybe it'll start showing up on people's lists right after this podcast. Um so but that's something and you know I haven't seen data where they've comped. Maybe Vigor Steve might have some information on on this that I'm unaware of. I bet. Yeah. for other other carrier oils, but we know the carrier oil isn't I mean in general castor oil is going to extend your halflife as we see here because it's so thick. That's the idea of the the viscosity of the carrier oil will change the relative physical movement um and the the potential for that eststerified um testosterone or this case testosterone deck to make its way out. So it basically sort of entraps if you have a fluid oil carrier oil like MCT it's moving around it itself is leaving the injection site more rapidly. So with it the testosterone echendonoi will also diffuse from there more easily because there's no carrier oil in with which with which it is in solution so to speak. So there's that. Um hold on here. Uh and then then there's the human body. This is this cool study I've talked about many times. Um this is was a uh um uh testosterone enanthate um a 500 mgram injection. I thought it was 200 but it's 500 milligrams in this case. Um uh this is from extramol 2011 and they looked at so this is baseline testosterone. This is this is just the the testosterone levels in nanograms per milliliter. multiply that by like 29 you'll get um uh oh that's nano no never mind that's nanogs per milliliter we can just yeah we can just multiply that by 100 and we get up pretty high levels I was thinking this is nanom moles per liter so that's pretty high obviously this is super physiological um and uh or multiply sorry about yeah by 100 for nanogs per deciliter and here if you have the right gene for this particular enzyme phosphodieststerase 7B, the enzyme that cleaves away the enanthate, the enanthic acid from the testosterone, so frees the testosterone to be active testosterone in the bloodstream. Then if you have the right enzyme with the right activity in that case, you end up with about 60% higher levels two days post. you get a greater area under the curve simply because of the genetics you have for the enzyme that frees the testosterone from the from the fatty acid um uh esester and makes it available is that something we can test for that yeah no I mean I I don't if you know I wouldn't go with who's the guys people who who shut down um not my family tree DNA the other one the genetic testers I don't think you can get them anymore. But yeah, you could get that tested, I imagine, for sure. Oh, by the way, I just looked it up and it said tea seed oil is comparable to olive oil, which I would believe is thinner than castor oil. Yeah. Everything's it can't be any thicker than castor oil. Otherwise, it's just tar. Right. Right. It's a solid at that point. It's just a solid, right? It's not even not it's not a liquid whatsoever. Um so so having this enzyme means that if someone is you know using 200 milligrams per shot on a TRT basis let's say then they're going to get 320 basically out of it compared to people who don't have that favorable the favorable gene for this particular enzyme. So this one enzyme means you get a much greater area under the curve. So you can imagine then if someone is has chosen the right concentration and the right muscle and the right cury oil and they have the right genetics. The difference is when you sum all those things together and maybe there's some synergism u maybe not but when you sum all those potential advantages together you've got a situation where someone could get much more out of an injectable than someone who has all those things working against them. So the verbocinetics are valuable on the depend on the volume of concentration, the sight of injection, the carrier oil, the genetics of asterified fatty acid removal and there's also other things that we don't have I don't have slides on but I've talked before the genetics of hpatic glucaronidation 2. So once you've processed steroids in the liver um one of the the fir the phase one is that's with um uh P450 enzymes and then the second phase is gluconidation is one example that you conjugation is the name of the the process and you add something to the molecule that makes it more um water soluble so then it can be lost in the urine. So three years ago when we first did this, I didn't know what glucaronidation was. And that's something I've learned about since in the clearance of estrogen. You know that I've talked about that with Dave a bunch of times. You know, talk about not only reducing levels of arom of aromatization with an AI, but also trying to clear estrogen faster through glucaronidation. Yeah. Yeah. So um I'm going back and forth between screens here. So yeah. So that's that's something that does vary. Um SHBG the promoter region for SHBG varies as well. So how much how much you have bound versus free aromatase varies depending on body fat age for instance. Um and then the next thing is metabolic adaptation to chronic use. So a lot of this stuff is like this is right out of the gate, right? They just go and they give people a 500 milligram injection or a thousand milligram injection, 100 milligram injection, you know, and then they just look at what happens over the next month or few days, right? Or weeks. Yeah. But what happens and now the question is for the people who are listening who's like, well [\h__\h] I started using gear years ago, right? Is how does this how much this apply to me? And generally speaking, we would expect that enzymes of metabolism are typically induced by their substrates when it comes to clearing things and processing things. So um we're talking about the phosphodiest 7B. Its job is to deisterify. So the the the fatty acid could probably be oxidized. Then the testosterone could be cleared elsewhere through those phase one and phase two process I just mentioned. But these sofo transferases the gluconorosal ter this is a hard one for me to pronounce even glucono gluc gluc glucuronosal transferases five of reductase SHBG all of these things are basically enzymes that are metabolizing or processing in a certain sense these xenobiotics these drugs that we're putting in the body or testosterone but it's still a drug when you have when it's a steroid ified your testes don't make a sterified testosterone that I know of at least. So these things are potentially then upregulated so the body adapts to an incoming xenobiotic or an elevation of um in this case testosterone so that it can maintain its homeostasis and bring you back down to whatever the normal level would be around which evolution has suggested this is where the body should be functioning. Right. Yeah. So, like here's a more I took this from a um a review by you. Not you, but you is the person's last name. 2004. Um I love that last name. It's like who's on first? You. Who Who did that? You. No. No. Who Whose paper is that? It's It's you. I know. I know. I know who I am, but who did the paper? You. No, I didn't. Me. Anyway, so the liver, these are potential areas where the li where other drugs could come in xeninoiotics, right, get processed in the liver and then upregulate SIP 3A like SIP 3A4, five or seven that are involved with steroid metabolism, um sulfonation, um glucaronidation, all these things we just talked about, these processes also um get upregulated by other drugs. Yeah. Okay. And various other things you might be getting like gosh like um uh or hormone disruptive chemicals from plastics or from textiles, right? Or [\h__\h] that's they put on that that appeal stuff that they put on fruit. Now, I don't know. I'm I'm not saying particular about that. I've looked into a little bit, but there's all sorts of xenobiotics, formal chemicals, things we know we're adding and things we don't know we're adding that are impacting the liver. And then we have this sort of orchestra of the drugs that we're trying to get a bodybuilding advantage with. Yeah. That are then um metabolized potentially differently. Yeah. Because of all the other stuff that the liver has to handle. So it's a it's a processing plant not just for the drugs that you put in, but the drugs that you don't want to put in. There substances you don't want to put in. Um, so, um, sorry, there's some stray text in there, but anyway, this sort of shows, you know, what happens in the liver. Steroids come in, they come into the blood, SHBG and albumin levels can change. So, all of this whole this whole concert of things um, can potentially be altered by the different drugs you have, the genetics that you have, and the different drugs you're intentionally using, and the different compounds, the xenobiotics that might be coming in. So here is a study um with testosterone undeino8. Um so this one is used in uh it's not used that often from what I've seen in TRT people still using enenthate cipate. Um but undekin08 does seem to have some advantages and and this is what you typically see when you get online look at these like steroid calculators. Yeah. Right. Right. You type in the numbers and you know the levels just keep on going up and they should just climb forever. Right. just if you just keep on adding and and you're taking in a larger dose, a large enough dose and you're taking it more frequently than your halflife, it should just stair step its way up until you just, you know, you basically have nothing but gear in your blood, you know, if you did this for decades. Um, so this is uh undecinate and and first injection creates a level thousand milligrams every six weeks. It's a very long acting esser and it comes back down. The next injection it comes back down again. This is kind this is the typical half. We saw this in a previous slide. Comes back down and then it comes up and we're starting to get to some sort of base. So it's eventually kind of tapers off, right? Okay. Um so that in of itself suggests there's some adaptation, right? The body is somehow putting the brakes on what would have otherwise been an ever climbing rise in blood levels shot after shot. The fact that blood levels don't just keep on going up month after month or every with every six weeks dose suggests the body's handling that more efficiently. When you get enough elevation of the testosterone that there's an upregulation that puts the brakes on further elevation to some degree. So I wanted to look into this some more. Um and uh so here's a kind of a cool cool study. Um they had uh there's a couple different situations here, but they were comparing 250 milligrams of test enanthate IM. So this is a weird dosing schedule, but this is they do weird stuff sometimes, but this is this is what happens to test enanthate at that dosing schedule for like um six, seven months, right? Okay. Levels are pretty steady. I mean, obviously you're getting every 3 weeks you're going up and coming back down. I think they're measuring that like a few days after the initial injection, right? Um, but it's you reach a steady state at least going out like seven months, no problem. And that's I mean a seven-monthl long study is a long one, you know, that's you don't typically see that. The other uh and there's a an issue here which I'm going right now. The other condition or the other data that's plotted here was again a thousand milligrams of testosterone on decanino IM every six to nine weeks right so this is like it's like okay you know you can come in six weeks you can come in nine weeks there's some variability there that were the parameters we just need to get you in about you know a little less than every two months right and values um go up and then in this particular study the the values are here. And I read and read and I tried to find out um any details about what may be happening here. Yeah. Right. Um whether they change the dose, whether this is coming down for biological reason, but things stay pretty steady here. You go out to about two, this is this is 24 months, so two years, 120 weeks, and things are pretty good. um maybe starting to drop off there. So there is another study this t same dosing regimen um 6 to n weeks so it's not very exact and um you see the same sort of scenario they were up here and then starting at about 100 weeks so this is 120 weeks starting about a 100 weeks values start going down right there is some variability here as some of this may be seasonal I wouldn't be surprised If I did the back calculation, it's summertime or it's springtime. People are getting ready to go out in the beach. I got to go get my test shot. Feel like I need a little more. That might be part of what's going on here. Consistency. Yeah. Um, you know, they have some error bars here in terms of weeks, too, because these values are are um based on averages at a given particular week. So some of these values that are represented by this level for instance did not take place exactly at 272 weeks or whatever it is. Some of them were more like 268 weeks and some of them more here. So they they plotted the values but this is over an 8-year period. Um and what started to happen seemingly um and this is with the I think in this study the number of subjects changed too over time because um that's that's the case that some of these studies they I really don't these are just in summary reports so they don't really tell you all the details like what's the N here initially versus here but at some point in time these values especially at the end the 8year period we're down here at 10 nanomles per liter, right? So multiply this by about 30. We're getting kind of kind of low here, especially compared to this. We're up at 17 18 values are lower. So the question I have is this is there's some adaptation happening here. So just as we suspect happens eventually, you do reach a plateau and things don't just continue to rise um like they do initially. There is some asmmptote that gets arrived when you use a arrived at when you get when you use a consistent dosing schedule. But is this due to an adaptation and is actually at this point in time because this is higher than what we're seeing in large part after the two or three year mark, right? And especially when we get out here many years into it. Is this because of subject of dropout? Is this because they've changed the dosing schedule or the people who kept on coming in were the ones who who um maybe felt like their testosterone levels were too low? Is there a selection bias here? Like what the heck's going on? Or is this representative of an adaptation? Right? So that's hard to know, but this is the best long long-term data that I know of looking at this potential um in humans looking at this potential phenomenon. But we have Reese's monkeys available to us as test subjects as well. Hey, what's up guys? I wanted to take a break from the podcast and do something that would be a little bit different to keep you entertained while I do my True Nutrition ad. So, I brought Maddie with me. I want to let you know Oh, she doesn't like the mic. I want to let you know that uh the code think now offers 10% off at True Nutrition. That's the main thing I want to tell you. You know, I talked to the people over there. We got that set up and now I get commission on orders. So I get 5% off or you guys get 10% off. I collect 5% commission. There's people coming. Don't you bark. There's a dog walking by. It's okay. You're all right. Anyway, uh I'm going to put a link in the description and uh I think that if you use that link, it'll add it'll put the code in automatically. But uh it's code think. It helps to support the show. You guys get awesome supplements in the process. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm going to place an order myself this weekend for the cookie butterflavored whey isolate cold filtered. Maddie, she's got nothing to say on that one. Anyway, that's it guys. We appreciate you guys watching the shows. Appreciate you supporting the programs. Let's get back to it. We have Reese's monkeys available to us as test subjects as well. And they are they're pretty they are primates. They're pretty close to us. So there's a study that was done um where they gave and these poor reesus monkeys they gave them 50 milligrams of test e every two weeks. So they put on a hormonal roller coaster um for 32 months. And this is the the data that they have here. So again 50 milligrams every two weeks. And these three plots, I know they're kind of jagged, show measurements taken one day of testosterone taken one day after the injection. H 3 days after the injection. So these values are this is these are kind of the peak values, right? And then 14 days after the injection. So when they came or then when they were just before they given their next shot, right? So these values are all much lower, right? So test went up one to three days and then it came back down. And we see that just in these graphs. Um but interestingly enough, um I can kind of read through this. Um the peak day one and day two levels were steady until just over two years, right? So um we're getting here. This is every two weeks. So 52 weeks would be a year. This is 52 times two weeks. We get out to about this point here. somewhere in here, just over two years. And let me This This kind of matches up with what we were seeing in these previous graphs. This two, three year mark, two year mark, ah, something's going on maybe. And now we're still getting a peak at day one, but three days post, it's a lot lower. Yeah, no kidding. Um, and the the test testosterone level trough levels rose initially. Um so they were kind of going up for the first period of time and then at somewhere around here things started declining and by the time we get out there's a little blip here but by the time we we get out to um you know two and a half three years the the lowest levels of test after that 14 days after the injection are are are lower for sure than they were initially in that first year or so. Hm. So, this suggests after couple three couple and a half years, there's faster clearance. And gosh, what does that say for those of us that have been using like legit cycles for the past decade and then go back to TRT and feel like, hey, I'm just not getting what I used to out of testosterone. Well, there you go. You know what? You know what? That's the question I just posed right there. You just asked the question for me. The old school gear was so much better than it is today. Is it really or is it you? You know, exactly. Exactly. That's one of the things like that's one of the one of the questions that that is raised here. So, how would every two week recovery like the thing thing here too is like this is allowing like it's two weeks. We know the the halflife. I I think it's roughly the same in Reese's monkeys, but obviously they're getting an elevation testosterone. It's coming really far down. And if I remember from the numbers from reading through the paper, they're basically back to baseline with the with the control group at 14-day mark. So they're getting a little bit of a a need to deisterify and clear the testosterone, but then they come back down and maybe for a few days they're at baseline. So they're getting kind of recovery periods in between, right? They're on a roller coaster. This I mean the the monkeys probably didn't feel great this way. Maybe they felt great for a few days and not so great for like this last four or five days. But that is categorically different I would say than a constant elevation with super physiological amounts. So what happens to pharmacocinetics halflife curve testosterone to estrogeneration phicodamics when with a bodybuilder's TRT? Hold on just a sec. Um did I turn off the uh Nope. I still see it. Okay, I just move I guess got rid of a little something that was on the in the way there. Um, super physiological stimulus a higher level. So just doing TRT at 300 milligrams a week. Yeah. And doing your shots every other day or what have you, right? That does that has there's a different profile in terms of pharmacocinetics versus doing a shot in this monkey with the monkey. So I would imagine that if there's an adaptation that's going to be happening, it's going to be less stimulated by a very intermittent protocol like that versus a continuous constant stress of super physiological testosterone. Yeah. Where the body say, okay, we got to we have got to put the brakes on this. And then we've got, as I mentioned a couple slides back, we've got other steroids that are competing metabolically for the antigen receptor for clearance pathways, etc. So what do those things do in terms of of elevating these clearance pathways? Because now we've got not just test but we got the other xenobiotics, other things that might be further increasing our ability to clear things. But on the other side, double-edged sword perhaps there's a potential of accumulation of toxic load, liver stress that might impair this adaptive capacity. M if you've gotten that far, you probably are could you could be so toxed out that you're not going to be making gains from from the gear that you're on because it's too much or it's the wrong kind for you at least. So, some closing thoughts on this um steroid metabolism and how effective they are for you. The steroids, whatever formulation you have is highly complex. It's a function of genetic variability and all these things. Five five alpha reductase antigen receptor um five htb that c ag should be uh next to the androen receptor not five alpha reductase sorry um uh pde 7b this the the p450 enzymes the esester the muscle the site the concentration the carrier or possibly activity of the muscle question is like if if you massage like a side question if you massage a muscle to help with post injection pain Are you then and you're clearing the bolus like that suggests you're getting rid of the irritant. You're getting rid of the you're freeing that steroid that would otherwise just dissipate, right? What do you do to the half-life if you massage if you like vigorously massage or apply heat or what have you to your injection sites and what does that do to the area under the curve and how much you get from them? Yeah. So there's that. Um and then there's this idea of time adaptation to a chronic drug load. There's limited data here. It may take several years before the adaptation seem it seemed like like just putting the grand picture with very limited data together is that at least with TRT like um injection schedules test testosterone after a couple years something's happening to the pharmacocinetics right where and and this explains why many times you heard this Scott like body bodybuilders are now retired they feel like they need to be on like 300 milligram of test to get to feel normal. Yeah, absolutely. And maybe a little bit higher. And if they don't test their blood weather, maybe they're getting good blood levels. Some of that could be that they've got some downregulation of the signaling, the pharmacco dynamics, but it could be if they're not testing blood levels that they just need that much because they're so they're rapidly clearing things um because their body has adapted to having been on for 15, 20 or or years or more. Um so there's this idea of you know patraasal adaptation too. If you've got accumulated toxicity um that could then impact do like basically create this sort of um this spiraling into worse toxicity. If you overcome the liver's let's say ability to detoxify something and then you could end up with more toxic effects because you end up you know creating massive liver stress. H. So maybe greater side effects could sort of paradoxically create greater drug bioavailability but not help you at all because you're toxed out already. Right? So you don't you don't have the anabolic you don't have IGF-1 release for instance from your liver. You're you're just not in a good place to grow when you you've got a toxic load that you're dealing with. Yeah. So um polyfarm pharmacy a super physiological engine load. Um so as a reference men produce like 10 to 20 milligrams testosterone a day. I've seen values as low as four in one study. I've yeah but difference these were not hypogonatal men in this case. So the values are pretty pretty variable depending what study you look at. But we're talking about less than 150 milligrams of testosterone a week. That's why TRT would be 100 some cases or 150 200 maybe. But as we know total weekly milligrams of gear is going to be way beyond this in many case. And then how are the phocinetics and dynamics affected? That's the big question. And this first cycle effect the thing you said you know maybe the the good old days were so good because you've been on for so long. Yeah. And how much is the also related to that how much is the enhanced effectiveness of having been off for a while simply due to the previous adaptations and clearance? And by that I mean if you're on for 5 years and your body had upregulated all these all these processing mechanisms we just talked about you come off for a couple years you've reensitized but you also may have different pharmarmac you may get actually more area under the curve you g may get more bang for your buck for the drugs because your your body is not used to processing them as it once was. Um and then another question just just lots of posing questions here but do epigenetic changes persist after years. So this is what we this is what epigenetics are about right you have um some sort of a a stress that is a highly relevant one for evolutionary reasons perhaps and then the relative ability of genes to be upregulated or be expressed is improved by these epigenetic changes. Um so that someone who has previous steroid experience might have you know the a honeymoon period of you know four eight weeks right but they have epigenetic changes so that that is gone pretty quickly whereas the first time when their real honeymoon you know they enjoyed greater um elevation of injectables at least this what we're talking about here for a couple years or maybe a year until their body finally said okay we need to put the brakes on this this is just too much gear floating around in the bloodstream. Yeah. So, I thought this was kind of cool information. Um, I advertise for myself here. I do seminars. People like this [\h__\h] I'd be happy to do seminars. Oh, hire Scott for a seminar. Bring them out to your gym. Like, seriously, I And I every seminar that I've ever been to that you've done, I've walked away with something. Some of those seminars, Scott, were God, you know, five plus more years ago. And every single one of them I can think back and there's been at least a few things that really stuck with me that I still now apply today or have altered the way I coach today or the way I apply a certain compound, you know. Yeah, that's that's what it's all about. It's that's it right there. That's a huge win. It's a huge win. Couple things, man. I'm happy. Hey, let me ask you a question. Yeah. So I mentioned um you know glucaronidation is something that I kind of dove into in the last two couple years. Looking at it from the perspective of clearing estrogen so that we may not need as much AI. You're posing it in the context of androgens here as being a factor as to how high your androgens are going to uh build up. Um if we are better at clearing estrogen, are we also better than clearing androgens? Um the sequence of events you're talking about is let's say just take to testosterone. Testosterone is aromatized estrogen and then it gets cleared, right? So So that so this is when it gets complicated and fun. And I'm I'm no expert here, but you've got this massive Scott likes to start conversations with I'm no expert here. He says a bunch of stuff that only 10% of we get 10% of it. Yeah. But it's the it's the truth really. There are people who have spent their entire research careers looking and understanding this stuff. So I understand I have a very superficial level compared to people who are really experts. But testosterone itself um before it's aromatized could undergo glucaronidation. Yeah. Okay. A after it's been processed in the liver. Right. Um yeah. through the phase one enzymes, the P450 enzymes and then it could be glucaronidated and then okay lost um it could it could end up a different place but you might think the urine it could actually empath feces or the testosterone before it makes its way to the phase it I mean actually aromatase is is kind of like a phase one enzyme um but it could then be then aromatized and then estrogen would be processed processed in of itself and glucaronidated. So yeah, so you have if you the way that big way to think of it is you've got potential fates of testosterone. This is in one of the other um presentations I give. I thought about including some of this basic stuff initially, but we've been talking for forever, but testosterone can be um five alpha reduced. Yeah. DHT, it can be aromatized estradiol. And then they and then you've got and and it can go go to andro there's various other androgens that can be metabolized into. Right. Yeah. But then you have different fates of DHT. You have different fates of estrogen and then you have the fates of testosterone that doesn't go those two routes. So it's not directly glucaronidation isn't directly happening to estrogen or testosterone. It it can absolutely it it would happen to the modified testosterone that isn't considered estrogen, right? Okay. Yeah. But that's already been through the first phase. So that first phase has to happen and then whatever is available after that first phase then can be further like better eliminated more effectively eliminated. It's a methylation at the sixth carbon I think through P450. So aromatization is it carbon 9 I if I think someone's gonna correct I think we know as much about this guys. Yeah. Anyway. Yeah. So you know all these I have a a picture actually it's a slide. I we can pull it up if I want to. I left the slide in there. Um I'm going to go look now because I want to see if I was wrong. All right. Um No, that's 19. Ah, it doesn't matter. Um Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Nine. You want to try to squeeze something else in here, Scott, too, today? Yeah, it is nine. Yeah, it is nine. It is nine for aromatization. Yeah. Um, I nailed it. Yes. I jeopardy point. You still got it. You still got it. So, so yeah. So, you take the testosterone and then it can be converted DHT, estrogen, and then those things can then be converted into something that could be glucaronidated. Okay. And gluc Yeah. So you can go through door you can go through door one as testosterone or go through door two as DHT or go through door three as as estrogen and then eventually the next door in those rooms would be gluconidation potentially. Gotcha. Um gota and there's dynamics to whether you um well sulfate sulfonation happens or glucaronidation happens or what have you. So it depends on what you're left with after the with the molecule started with and after the phase one enzymes have had their way with the molecule. So, all right. Yeah. Cool. Um, did you want to cover I know we had a couple other things that you had pulled out here. Was there something else you wanted to talk about? Oh, uh, for today, you know, I working on I was working on that other pro that other presentation, but I don't have we wouldn't have time for it anyway, I don't think. Yeah. The other one that we were talking about big bigger one. Oh, the bigger one. Oh, um, you were talking about that's not that's not ready yet either. Okay. No, no, no. I knew that wasn't ready. Yeah. All right. Yeah. All right. Cool. Well, I think we could just call it here then. That's probably good, man. Okay. Yeah. Unless there's some questions coming through on the on the chat. I haven't seen Are we live? We are live and we've just been hanging and and people uh basically were just uh relaxing with us. One person had a question that we asked on uh drugs and stuff already and I told him that that one was going to be out on Monday and uh I I don't think it was really in the wheelhouse here for this show any about like minimal effective deca for joints and stuff like that. It's more of a a Dave type, you know, topic. There was a question on professional muscle that I actually responded to like Yeah, there's a study out there on this question. There's a study out there. Oh, okay. Yeah. I think it was 100 milligrams. I I posted the study like n there was there people used varying amounts and they uh they made some subjective measurements of reduction in joint pain. Okay. And um so there's a study out there if Dave's probably aware of it, but it's out there. It kind of answers this question directly. We he we guessed he said I think 50 maybe 100. I said 100, but more is always better. Yeah. 300. Dave, 300. Dave, you got to go 300. No, hold on. I'll look it up. Oh, okay. Let's see here. Minimal effective DECA. And thanks for everybody hanging with us on the live stream today. Surprise, it's Muscle Mines. Maybe I haven't. I love hearing the birds at Scott's house. Ah, it's very tranquil. I know. It's so nice back there. Oh, it's somewhere buried in here. I may not be able to find it unless we want to wait for forever. That's all right. Yeah, let's just call it good here. Well, we'll leave on a high note. Okay, George would stay. I like it. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Uh, as I mentioned, bobbcoach.com. That's Scott's book. You can get the ebook there. I'll put the link to the hard cover. So Scott generally sells the hard cover through Amazon, Barnes & Noble, but right now he's got a few copies that he's putting up on eBay so that he can sign them. Seven left. Okay. Seven left. Uh you can sign and he'll sign them for you guys. So definitely jump on that. It really is a great book. It will take you through figuring out putting together a plan for your offseason, literally through the day of your contest and beyond that into the rebound again. So, you'll learn a lot. You know, if you feel like you picked up a lot from this show, you'll pick up a even more from the book. It's definitely worth it, especially for somebody who can't afford to coach, you know, pay for a coach or you just want to do it yourself, you know. I think it's a a great way to to give yourself a leg up on that. Of course, check out uh true nutrition.com and use our code think over there. Um they've got great supplements that uh you know, like I said at the beginning of the show, I suggest them because I want you guys to reach your goals. We had somebody on Patreon ask um you know, what are some good joint supplements besides the stuff that I hear you guys mention for advertising? I'm thinking I mention it because I believe in it. You know, I believe in collagen. Uh, and and I've mentioned that specifically because it's something I believe in. True True Nutrition wasn't like, "We got to move two kilos, you know, 20 kilos of collagen this month, guys. You know, you guys have to you guys have to promote it for us." They never say to do anything. I just tell you guys about the stuff that I truly do believe in. And I believe that highly brand or excuse me, uh, that uh, hydrayzeed collagen is one of the best joint supplements that you can get. And, uh, use our code think over there. We have a new affiliate. That amino company is no longer around. There's a a modern Amino company that you can go to, which I, you know, won't break down here on YouTube, but uh we do have a code for them. So, reach out to us on other areas, Instagram, the pod audio podcast app, the Facebook group. You can find out more about that. And uh of course uh supplements.ca for Canadians, guys. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. Scott, thank you for your time, man. Like, this is so cool. Like I said, all the way years back, man, you know, listening to you talk from since 2016, I have learned so much from you. My whole outlook on training has evolved. Uh, and I at first, man, I wasn't really down with the progressive overload and the high fre wasn't down with high frequency. I'm going to be honest with you. Yeah. Yeah. You and Jordan were talking all about it and I was like, "Yeah, I don't know about all this." Dante was sort of higher frequency too than at least this the uh the bros split. I didn't do that though. Yeah, I I was doing more of the Meadows creeping death type plan where we trained back on Wednesday. We trained chest on Tuesday or Mon Monday, you know what I mean? That's just the way it worked. Like once weekly though. Yeah. Oh, that's what I meant by the bros split. Like the pros split. Bro split once a week. Yeah. Yeah. We were doing more of that, you know? So, it took me it took me a year and a half of listening to you talk before I actually gave it a try. And guess what, man? I did it for just chest and my chest blew up over the course of a year and I was in a deficit for nearly that whole year, too. And I came out of that year with a much better chest than I ever had. So, that that led me on the path, man. Yeah. I I have this this upcoming uh thing is pretty interest this this talk I put together on um the law of diminishing returns and do advanced trainees still have uh some room for improvement so to speak and the research is some there's I found an interesting meta analysis that that I haven't seen people talk about and okay part of people part of what one of the main findings they have is a really interesting one because it kind of shoots a hole in some of the research that's out there um we wouldn't have time for or it would take like an hour if we started it today or so. Yeah. Um so yeah, that's going to be fun. We're going to we'll talk about effort and log booking and progressive overload, that sort of stuff. We can Okay. Well, I'm going to look forward to that one. And I found the Deca thing. It was a a study uh who was it? Um the first author is Tatum. T A TM. And these were um participants using 200 milligrams to test sip a week and then they added 100 milligrams of deca and a good number of them found it was there was some variation but that's basically the protocol. A good number of them found reduce redu reduction in joint pain. So not that I'm saying you should do that but the study is literally for the guy who's like okay I'm on TRT I got joint pain could I use Deca? I think there are better things that you can do for joint pain before just adding steroids and deca has its negatives. But if you're dead set on doing it, that's a study that it doesn't say that 50 won't work. Yeah. And doesn't say that, you know, you need wouldn't need 120 to do this. Um, but there are also other avenues. Should you use BPC? Should you use like the joint product that they have on True Nutrition? Dante's Dante's um That's a great formula, too. Yeah. Um I put a friend on it not too long ago and she's in her 70s now and she's like, "This is stuff's amazing." Yeah. Yeah. It hits everything from all the angles. What's it what's what's it called? Uh flex. Yeah. It's got Joint Flex. Yeah. Or joint. Yeah. It's got UC2 in it. So, you get if you use regular hydrayzeed beef collagen with it, then that's going to give you type one and type three collagen. And then UC2 is in that product. Plus, it also has like a full dose of of uh curcumin like 400 milligrams I think of curcumin in it. So that's going to help with inflammation. It does have all the other like things like MSM, chondroitin, all those things that help to also um put water in the joint, you know, to soothe the pain. Um, so it has it kind of hits everything from all the angles. Inflammation, adding fluid, and actual materials that will help it to rebuild. A different collagens. I mean, it's interesting because there's literature suggesting that they will end up where you would hope them to. And then, um, Stu Phillips just posted a study. Um, he doesn't believe in it at all. Steuart Phillips is a main guy looking he's done like some of the basic work back in the day with um Tipton for instance who did a lot of the early protein synthesis studies and he's a not a fan at all of collagen for helping um with protein muscle protein synthesis at least or or the idea of it getting into connective tissues. Yeah. I don't know because I I'll tell you what it's mixed data. Anecdotally, I can tell you this that when and so I've discovered like when I tore my super spinatus, I was able to recover, I'd say, quite rapidly. And of course, it wasn't the only thing I was doing. But here's what I noticed is that when I've used growth, my hair would grow faster, my nails would grow faster, and I'd say to myself, okay, yeah, I feel like, you know, this is a good sign to me my growth is working. I have to trim my nails twice as often. there's something happening here internally and I noticed all of the exact same side effects when I started collagen. Uh plus I did get improved recovery like I I you know I also did all the physical therapy for my super spinatus. I you know was using BPC as well but I I feel like the collagen gave me the bricks to allow the you know all the other work to to actually happen. And then when my mom started using it, she literally started reverse aging her within within like two months, man. She started using a scoop a day. I was like, "Just take it, mom. Don't ask questions. Here's a 5B bag, you know, expensive. 250, you know, 200 bucks I'm spending on her." And she told me that the girls at her uh Jazzer size class were they're all like in their 30s. She's about 70 now. The peer review of her jazzer size class. Yeah. The peer review of her jazzer size class. all these women in their 30s, you know, they had like their first baby and they're they were saying like, "Betty, what are you doing because you look so much younger? Like, what's going She said a number of the girls were just fawning over her." And she did. She started reverse aging. Her butician said she had to cut her hair. Your hair is growing so much faster. And then to top it off, she had a woman she didn't even know ask her at the checkout line when she's at the grocery store and she said, "Excuse me, you know, what's your beauty regimen? what do you do? Because you just are glowing. And so, man, I'm telling you, just the experiences I've had personally hearing that from my mom and and and believing in Dante cuz Dante is a big believer in collagen and, you know, I do have a level of trust in what Dante says that I, you know, if he says it's legit, I'm going to believe in him because I I know that he's put in his due diligence. And I'm not saying he's got to always be right, but he's been right about a lot of things, especially when it comes to the human body and health. So, I'm going to lean into what Dante says versus somebody who's looking at a study. That's just Well, I mean, I'm looking I'm looking at the studies and the studies are mixed from what I know. I'll look into this. This is Luke Van Loon's. I looked it up. It was Stu Phillips who posted it that I saw the other day. Luke Van Loon has done a lot of this stuff and it was muscle connected tissue protein synthesis. Okay. Okay. And I haven't read the study, but there's a difference like your mom like like if you have someone who's got a a vitamin deficiency and you replete that. Yeah. Yeah. Huge. So, who knows what what may have been missing from her diet that they absolutely I've considered that too. I don't think she got a ton of protein to begin with. Well, there you go. You know, so I that's what I'm guessing. Like that's I'm trying to p poke holes in my own, you know, theory here. But that said, man, it's like Yeah. I don't know. I I I feel like it's been beneficial. And if there's one supplement based off of my experience that I would have started 10 years years sooner, it would have been collagen. I I'll maybe I'll look into I'll put that in the in the list because like I said, the idea is that the collagen will end up in the connected tissue where where you see those amino acids and there are studies that have suggested that's the case. This study, I don't know what the parameters it's. It's all the question that's answered in this study on muscle protein synthesis and people who already have plenty of protein. Let's let's take the scenario. This may isn't the study, but I'm just I'm just going to imagine that it might be. You've got you're meeting your protein needs, even if you're a resistance trained person, and then you add collagen, and you may find on average that it doesn't do a dang thing for those individuals, right? Yeah. But you also are you fighting something in your body that's um right that we talked about when you got sick that might elevate your need. This was before that. Even before that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I tore my superpinatus a year before that. Okay. So this is so but the still scenario in that in that scenario you have an elevate so that's an injury scenario. You've got localized elevated protein synthetic need in repairing connective tissue. That's what you do with muscle training with with training your muscles. You've created elevated need there. So you need more of the proteins that are specific for that. Every muscle is actually an organ, but for that organ that's been impacted, you're super spinatus, you tore it, but you're talking about tearing not the muscle in the middle of the belly and not training it like with resistance training with concentric eccentric repetitions, talking about a tear that is being repaired where I can totally imagine there's an elevated connective tissue um pro amino acid specific need that would come from collagen. So, so it's all like this is the thing look at a study what does the study actually tell you and what are the parameters of the study and that study I haven't read it but like the study looking at protein synthesis connected to protein in in um skeletal muscle in many instances I can see where having has no effect but initi but in your cases in your case with your supermas or with your mom I can totally see where it has an effect and that's why the studies so the the questions that are asked are different the question that your mom had or the the problem that the situation your mom had is different than what these subjects were sub subjected to in their study for instance and then I would wonder so what would be the population besides say an injured bodybuilder what about a bodybuilder that isn't injured but has been how many bodybuilders don't have fraying and damaged tendons you know what I mean yeah you know all of us put us under an MRI or you know ultrasound there's going to be fraying on just about everything. Yeah. And it's it's difficult like to measure to go in like if you've got a damaged tissue, especially in a human, you're not going to go and biopsy that to try to look at what's going like, you know, because you're just damaged again. Yeah. So there's limitations there. So that's this the important thing is you take this this is like you have you have your mom's report and the the people at Jazzer size class you have your report and then there's these guys who are doing something in the lab that's another report and it's got its relevance and you have your relevance and her stuff has a relevance the other studies have their relevance different scenarios different subjects different conditions and you have to say okay you know this person was eating oranges you know in a tropical climate where it was 115° and 80% relative humidity and he felt great in the oranges. This other person, you know, didn't want to eat an orange cuz he's in the Arctic and he's in an igloo, right? And he just wants food. Like there's so many things that could be different and you're going to get a different result because of the parameters. Yeah. The other thing too that's interesting about the UC2 that's worth noting is the undenatured collagen type 2 supposedly last last I've looked they this is the the going the theory on this is it acts differently than collagen peptides would in general where you're providing the building blocks okay for the tissue um the un the idea is is that there's kind of a subclinical um reactivity in those joints that's of an autoimmune nature Sure. I'm not saying everyone who has sore joints has an autoimmune disease, but we have rheumatoid arthritis, for instance, as an example of this sort of thing, right? Is that there's subclinical or nondiagnosed autoimmune issues that are creating a chronic chronic inflammatory scenario in those joints and the situation is that the joint is creating inflammation in response to its own um collagen proteins as one particular candidate. Yeah. And when you take undenatured, so intact collagen that has the same structure as the collagen or very similar to the collagen in your body and unaturated collagen type two is like 60 milligrams. It's low. It's Yeah. And we're not talking about like that's that's nothing like that's that's not even a tenth of a gram. Yeah. Right. It's zippo. But what that does presumably it makes its way into your gut and it and your gut has a is a large component of your immune system and it goes through these particular um immune cell concentrated areas called pyers patches and the pyr patches are like gatekeepers for the immune system to say okay what is what is xenobiotic what is foreign and what's okay and if you take that in and it comes through the immune system in the pyrus patches is you retrain the immune system to say, "Hey, UC2 is cool. Undenatured collagen is cool. That's not a problem anymore." And then you train your immune system to stop being reactive to its own connective tissue collagen. And then you limit the joint inflammation because you've reconditioned the immune system by taking it taking in the UC2. So, it's a completely different mechanism supposedly with UC, which is really [\h__\h] cool. You're like, you're like basically re-calibrating your immune system. The idea is at least to the connective tissue, the collagen that it's been um falsely immunogenically reacting to um and causing inflammation. So, it's it's a totally different deal with the UC2. So, um that's why he's got it in there is UC2. UC2 you wouldn't use like, oh, I got I got collagen peptides. I don't need UC2. UC2 is a totally different totally different ballgame. Oh, you're muted for me at least. Yeah, there we go. Sorry about that. I just looked too. I uh I I because I couldn't remember the name for sure. It's JLEX over at True Nutrition. And it has UC2 in it. It also has It was Mariva. Mariva. That's the curcumin. Yeah, that was the curcumin that it had and some vitamin C and some other stuff in there, too. So, yeah. It's a good It's a good product. It is. Yeah, I got a lot out of that. I used that for like 3 months to start my collagen, you know, cycle out. Uh it was three three months or it might have been six actually, but uh it made a difference, I think. Anyway, we appreciate you guys tuning in. And I've got a bunch of studies, by the way, Scott, on collagen. So, I'll send those over to you, uh if you want to check them out. I've got a bunch, too. They're they're pretty mixed, you know. I'm going to read this one that just came out, but yeah, it's uh it's it's people are asking different questions. It's the funny thing. It's like, you know what? What what vehicle should I get? And the guy who's like has a truck and he like I got a pickup truck. That's what you need. Like it's like, no, I want 4x4. I can get through the snow, but I live in Florida. Exactly. I need mud truck, right? Or I live in a big city. I need to have something small I can park in the parking garage. Like, yeah, they're use cases, right, when it comes to this stuff. So, we tend to black and white and compartmentalize and that sort of thing. And science also it gives you in the context of that question the idea is to take something where there's a wide distribution of answers and to say we can say with some probability that the answer is going to be yes in this use case or no depending on what the results suggest and we say that with some level of probability and certainty. It's like okay well this is how it is black and white. It's like no that's that's not it. And that's what I appreciate appreciate about you, Scott, because a lot of times in our space with fitness, that's what you get is this now proves that this thing does or this is what how you need to train, you know, eight reps. No more than eight reps. Yeah, I have no less than eight reps, right? Eight reps. Yep. Exactly. Eight reps. Yeah, that's the new thing. So, yeah, I have some thoughts on that for maybe the next the next one. All right, awesome, guys. We appreciate you tuning in. Thank you for hanging with us and for another episode of Muscle Minds. I'll see you soon. Adios.