 P5P, I find, I find, I find, helps, I find, helps, I find, helps, I find, helps, I've taken, for a couple of weeks, beforehand, I find, it's not as effective if you bring it as an afterthought, I find it's not as effective if you bring it as an afterthought, I'm very often you might need to go the caber route then, because P5P increases the dopamine transport proteins, but when the nandrolones lower the dopamine transport proteins, it's difficult to bring them back up using P5P, but if you get them high first using P5P, then the reduction from the nandrolone brings them back down into a user a simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation in the UK and the US and of course evalbloodanalysis.com you can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK Dave this is our last episode before Christmas in fact as you mentioned to me before this is technically our Christmas episode isn't it it is yeah so well how about that yeah and I don't have a Santa hat and no I'm not gonna go around giving out presents we this is all right we didn't expect you to we we know that you're we've we thought of you more as like the Scrooge you know what I'm saying Dave right I am no no Chris do you like Christmas Dave I like Christmas yes yeah I don't like the over commercialization of it and I don't like that the stress it's like Christmas is I'm not religious I was brought up religious I was brought up as a message so so Christian faith sort of the background of my upbringing but and my mum was a very avid and very supportive of the church I'm not active myself but I don't have an issue with being right with people at the end of the day um but it's like this time of year you can't you know you can't get parking people park like assholes people drive like assholes everybody's straight I mean like we get deliveries all the time here because of eval and the business and everything else and the delivery drivers have gone from pressing the intercom for the gates to open to come in to just throwing them over the fence and fucking off yeah and it's just like whoa what the fuck's going on and and it's for the season that's supposed to be goodwill yeah it generates a complete lack of it um and people get super stressed and this is why we started going away I mean one is convenient because we closed but two it was like oh last we'll get so stressed about prepping a Christmas dinner and though it's nice and I enjoy it and I you know I appreciate the effort it's like it's not worth the grief and the stress all right well listen I'm with you 100% let's jump into this thing man we're going to give them some uh some anabolic education today as always and uh you know I hope you get everybody does have a good holiday maybe we got some more Christmas talk at the end of the show plus we do have like a do you remember our segment dear Davey where people would write we have like a relationship advice question that we'll throw in at the end but I've got something I wanted to throw at you here now we've talked about this topic before just real briefly let's retouch it um so last week we did the episode 25 milligrams of anivar surprised me to see how fantastic a national level competitor did with that I've since seen other guys do really well kind of like a tail end added into the cycle boost morale boost progress as when things were slowing down and it's worked really well that brought the question from one of our listeners um says another great podcast funny banter between you two as always interesting stuff about the 25 anivar I'm wondering about other orals would they do the same thing at smaller doses so that made me think Dave we've talked about it before but real quick can we run through let's say minimal effective dose of each oral compound okay uh there's a relative relativity uh to development experience time using gear obviously a newbie is going to get away with significant impacts of lower doses but I would say d-ball could actually be as low as 10 15 I go with that uh t-ball I'd say 20 okay oxy I'd say 25 okay yeah uh winnie I would again be 20 25 I'm I'm kind of pretty much with you so far across the board anivar I'm gonna say 25 30 for the most part and less female obviously female doses are significantly lower but yeah anivar I'd say probably 25 I'm not I'm not a big mad fan on anivar I think it's all right I think it does a nice job I just don't think it's anything special I think it's a safe mild easy to run no hassle drug that will give you some benefits but I think you'd get if you were going milligram for milligram I think you'd get more out of pretty much every bloody oral there is yeah personally that's where I sit with it other people may disagree I mean it is incredibly popular and used a hell of a lot I I you know man after this last uh you know last week that we talked about it I feel like I got really good results with this guy and a couple others now keep in mind this 25 anivar was part of a bigger cycle I'm not saying like you're completely natural and now you're adding in 25 var um but you know as an addition to something else that was already going on last six to eight weeks getting a nice boost without really throwing things off too far hopefully you know because that's the other factor man you don't want to like get through a cycle and then completely cripple your liver values at the end and completely destroy your cholesterol right no no yeah I mean I I like it I've not had experience with what we were discussing in just tickling in a little bit of aurels I've always run aurels at the end but I have tended to run them a little bit higher than the the you know the low dose 20s um it's something I'll probably play with moving forward and just see how um it goes but I I think it's it's like a lot of things in it with this it's how where is the person you're adding it into you know we whether we like want to admit it or not we all know that we we sometimes lean into drugs as a compensatory for trading not quite being right a diet not being right if it's that sort of client then a low dose is probably not going to do a great deal but if someone's on point and then nailing everything else then yeah I mean I can see it really being effective I really can how about the stronger compounds like somebody in the live stream said super draw or I'll throw halo testing in there or yeah let's start with those two halo I think you can be as low as five and tens um halo is particularly impacting I mean I've used even 10 as an actual dose you know yeah yeah two weeks of a prep so I would say five and tens in halo I would say super draw probably slightly higher maybe 10 15s um but um yeah I mean they are definitely going to be at the AI mean I think the the low low end dosing stuff that can work is d-ball halo and estrol um and then I think you run into this sort of 20 to 30 range with an of our t-ball wouldn't you know when he maybe slightly lower on the an of our slightly on the higher there was on a slightly lower yeah maybe the DHT is a little bit more is what you're kind of getting at yeah I think the dh and obviously bear in mind because people think t-ball is DHT it's not it's testing based but yeah I think like you're out of our um so winnie oh yeah winnie winnie's AI think an underutilized drug because it's limited with his exposure but I think winnie's probably got a bigger kick that people give it credit for well we we discovered that it was much more anabolic with Scott Stevenson uh on muscle minds it's much more anabolic than a lot of us have given it credit for we just don't generally see that because we're not using it in an off-season cycle that said after discovering that I have thrown it in with a couple guys that were interested in doing it I I will tell you Dave I hadn't seen it wasn't like all of a sudden we added winstrel into an off-season cycle and we had unlocked these crazy gains that we never would have had previous you know what I'm saying it yeah it wasn't it wasn't like magic or anything like that I will be honest but I have a question really good anabolic effect to it yes question Dave I need to know if I need to be insulted or you need to be insulted um for the person watching this live who's on the left me or you um I think it it depends on how I edit the show when it's done um but you're technically for me you're on the left right now and I'm on the left for me so it's me saying he's got a small dick I do have a small dick but I'm not unhappy with it I'm quite happy with the size of my dick to be quite honest dude on the left looks like he is very unhappy with the luck of the draw he got with his penis  Okay, classy, classy, all right, Dave is on the left. So I look like a bloke with a small willy. Okay, fair enough. That's what I've always thought about you from the minute I met you. That's what I've always thought about you from the minute I met you. That's a bloke with a really small dick, yeah. Poor Dave. It may be small, but there's a lot of weight hitting it home. All right, listen, let's move on here. We've got a bunch of stuff and this is our Christmas episode after all. with anabolic Santa here. We had a bunch of stuff and this is our Christmas episode after all. We had a bunch of stuff and this is our Christmas episode after all. We had a bunch of stuff and this is our Christmas episode after all. We had a bunch of stuff and this is our Christmas episode after all. Yes, opposite to males, generally quite attractive and definitely my preferred. What is your favorite fat food stack for a female that carries a lot of fat in the lower half? Upper body is absolutely shredded, just var and clan not cutting it. I'll tell you what, man, first of all, this is super common. Women, you know, females in general tend to hold more lower body fat. So there is that, right? And I will say this, that in order to get a female into shape that has this type of body composition, or really anybody, dude, like men, we tend to hold more like lower back, love handles, lower stomach fat. You just have to keep dieting further in order to get those areas in shape. I'm working with a woman right now. She still has like some, you know, greater deal of fat through the hips and the glutes, but she literally has like upper back, not quite striations, you know what I'm saying? But like great detail in her upper back, great detail in her abs. You just have to keep going because you're only going to be as fat as or as lean as that fattest area. You know what I mean? Judges see that you can't have like loose glutes, right? So you got to, you got to keep going and tighten that up. You've almost got to over diet and then come back in afterwards to get rid of it initially. And then you can build back up afterwards and fill out a bit more. And you could soften the upper body up to, you know, through water manipulation, carb up, you know, for a contest. But yeah, you got to just keep pushing. Is there anything specific that you would say would be like, oh, yeah, here's your female fat burner stack? Because I kind of feel like I use the same tools as I do with with a few variations. Yeah, I would have said the only the only thing that's possibly a little bit more influential in a female. And then again, that would depend on the individual is estrogen management. But most females are going to have a complete shutdown of cycle anyway if they're in a diet phase because it's so much more sensitive to body fat levels and body fat intake. So you'll see female menstrual disruption in a diet phase quite early on in most women. As soon as you start to cut that fat intake and start to bring the body fat down. I don't think there's a particular compound that I mean, the reality is a female can take any anabolic. There isn't an anabolic that a female can't take. There is just the fact that the sides, particularly around virilization, are generally undesired by most female users. There are a few that don't give a shit. And there are a few that I've actually found or seem to be particularly resistant to them. I know one female user that ran some pretty hefty doses of Decker and Trent and didn't really have any virilization issues from either of those drugs, possibly some mental health stuff, which all done and dusted. And then I know I know someone who leaned into Trent very, very heavily as a female, very effective for what they were trying to achieve, but has left them quite damaged in the sort of paranoia and anxiety and that side of things. I mean, there's more there's more there's more at play than this, obviously, there always is with these situations, but there's no doubt that there is a, you know, that drug had a severe influence in her behavior and in where she is now post. But yeah, I mean, females do tend to get on well with no 19s. But dosing is obviously going to be significantly reduced to what you'd look at with a male. They don't have the same issues that men do with the progesterone instigating drugs. So like Decker and stuff, they actually get coke quite well with that. Oxy issues male, female anyway, Primo used in male and female anyway. So, you know, there isn't really drugs are out of bounds for females, even though we tend to gatekeepers males quite a lot around around drugs for females. But it is just that the sides can be more impacting. And as a result, more masculizing for women on certain compounds. But it all down to the woman and what what they wanted to achieve and what they're willing to risk in achieving that. Yeah. No, when it comes to fat loss, I don't even think of anabolics. You know, I'm going to Klen. I'm going to ECA. I mean, depending on the situation, possibly T3. Yeah. I've found I will say this. I think that. Excuse me. I, my brain just went like injectable L-carnitine, I think, can be a great addition, especially for females. So, I, what's up? How do you find your hymbine with females? Oh, your hymbine. That's a great point, man. Absolutely. Your hymbine is a great addition along with Klen. Scott Stevenson had a really great analogy on combining your hymbine with Klen that if Klen is putting your foot on the gas of fat burning, your hymbine is like taking your foot off the brake. So, there's definitely a synergy between those two. You know, I think that's a great combination. But realistically, though, I think it just comes down to, unfortunately, a lot of times females in those positions just have to continue to diet. Their diets have to be longer. And a lot of times their diets have to be a lot harder, too, you know, in order to get in shape. I think it's a problem or a mistake across the board where people will look to their best body parts to gauge their condition when what you should be doing is looking to your worst. Yeah. Get your worst in condition. Then you know you're in condition. And then if you need to, you can fill back out the smooth out the areas that are probably over detailed depending on the class of where you're looking to work. Here's a question that and by the way, I think all that stuff really does apply to both men and women. For fat burners. Here's something interesting, Dave. I remember wondering this myself. He said, I had a question about ampoules. I've used them in the past. Just wondering how common is it to get glass particles in the ampule that you crack? I've used 20 gauge needles to draw it. I've definitely seen the larger fragments. I do think that there is. Mm hmm. Never really thought about it. You've never thought about it. I've thought about it, man. But because I'm afraid, dude, like you're taking this glass bottle and now you're going to like snap. You know what the other thing is, too, is that amps aren't as common anymore, especially here in the States. Like we're not getting a ton of stuff, you know. I mean, I think that the design of the ampule has considered the fragmentation of the glass when it comes to the draw of the fluid. I mean, this, you know, generally speaking, farmer stuff is pretty well researched in how it's used in this application. Not always grounded. And I have definitely seen some of the larger fragmentation end up inside the ampule. Have you? Yes, I have before now with my own personal use. Yeah. But it's never been something that I've ever really considered as a problem because my old sort of attitude has been, well, if it's fine enough to travel up the needle and I can't fucking see it, then it ain't causing me a major issue when it goes in. But, yeah, I mean, the pre-score, yeah. And pre-scoring the vial. Well, I remember when the vials used to come with the little file. You used to get a little metal file or a little almost like a nail file. Ah. So you could score them and then you used to get the, the antonym, Chinese GH, used to come with a grit wheel, a scoring grit wheel. It's like a small wheel. Yeah. That you'd score the ampules with. So, yeah, I mean, there's a few approaches or you can get a neck snapper, which is a clean break. You know what I used to do too was like a, I don't have one here, but a pen cap. If you just put a pen cap. Well, that's what the, yeah, that's basically what the amp snapper is. It's, it's a little plastic thing that the amp fits in and it falls over the top and then you're a bit at the top that allows you to the neck. So, yeah, there's, there's a few things you can do. I mean, I've, I've scored amps on walls before now to try and make them a bit easier to snap. I used to be really bad for just shattering the whole fucking thing in my hands. Oh God. That was always my biggest fear, man. And I never, I've cut my fingers a few times from shattering them completely in my hands. All right. Jake says a great show is always guys question for the next episode. Have you ever had guys deal with anxiety from running NPP even when running P5P? If yes, what do you do to manage that? Um, breathing techniques, et cetera. Dude, I just had a guy who started NPP. He was a few weeks in. He noticed that his. He noticed that his. He noticed that his. 座se on the MDB transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer transfer like Tren and Decker, is that they are high binding affinities and they do bind with a lot of weird shit. So I don't think it's just the dopamine down regulation that is the issue. P5P, I find, helps if taken for a couple of weeks beforehand. I find it's not as effective if you bring it as an afterthought. And very often you might need to go the CABA route then. Because P5P increases the dopamine transport proteins. But when the nandrolone is lower, the dopamine transport proteins, it's difficult to bring them back up using P5P. But if you get them high first using P5P, then the reduction from the nandrolone brings them back down into a usable range. Where when you've only got a low number and you're trying to build them up with P5P, it doesn't seem to work anywhere near as well. From a point of view of managing low mood and those sort of things, yeah, you can employ all the things like meditation and positive mental reinforcement and all that sort of stuff. Definitely isn't going to do you any harm. And it's not a bad thing to practice just in general anyway. Anyway, but the other thing that I found that this is a very suck it and see approach and unfortunately doesn't work for, you know, as many people as it does, is actually running a higher dose. And this seems to be something to do with DHN and DHT. DHN supplants DHT very often. And I think that's some of the action where you get low mood from an androlone. But if you bring the nandrolone dose higher. Then you have a surplus of DHN and just the sheer volume of DHN then seems to be enough to overcome the fact that it's less effective than DHT. So I've seen a few people that have run nandrolones that's like 300 milligrams, had problems with them, but gone up to four, five or six hundred and no longer had a problem with them. But obviously that doesn't work for everybody. And it's definitely not a, you know, across the board solution. So there's a few factors and it just really does depend on which elements of that are not working for you. But obviously there is always the option of not taking the shit in the first place. Yeah. Yeah. And that's generally what I've gone to. If I have somebody who tends to maybe get mood issues and now they're getting a mood issue related to a 19 or related to DECA or to NPP, we're just going to switch it out. Because there are so many other steroids out there that we can get the same job done without having to try to go work with breathing techniques and all that stuff is great. But I'd prefer to just, you know, not have the issue to begin with. If we can have a smooth cycle that like uplifts you, makes your life better and enhances everything, I'd rather have that than something you have to like combat all the time, you know? Yeah. There's no point in making life hard work for the sake of it unless there is no alternative. Yeah. Oh, we got a bunch more comments about people who got into bodybuilding after being into recreational drugs. Just one comment from Wayne. He said, I've got seven years clean this last week, still active with my recovery, got into bodybuilding about 2.5 years ago. So shout out to him. What about this one? Oh, no, that's our relationship question for the end. We'll save that. Question for a future show. I did a bulk cycle but didn't eat enough to see great gains. I only upped my calories the last four weeks. I am up about 25 pounds. I'm in a maintain phase or a maintenance phase of eight weeks now, eating enough, the same higher calories. After, could I do another bulk cycle with better calories this time? Or should I cut and chalk it up to the learning process? I went from a lean 200 to 225 now. Okay. So he's up 25 pounds. Yeah. But he's not lean. That isn't light. I mean, that's a decent chunk of change going up 25 pounds. So I would question the I didn't gain well unless you've just got fat as fuck on that. And that's just 25 pounds of pure chup. I think so. As body fat increases, returns from cycles will, to a point of a degree, diminish. Yeah. Because fat cells have androgen receptors. So some of the gears getting bound in those fat cells. It will get re-released afterwards and go back into the system. But obviously, you're minimizing the active open gear floating in your system that can engage with androgen receptors in muscle tissue. So higher body fat, more gear wasted in fat. And you get less responsive insulin sensitivity wise. And I think insulin sensitivity is a very key process around growth and around allowing the calories that you are consuming to go where you want them to go. So if you've gained 25 pounds on a bulk, and we spoke about this loads of times, second bulks are never as effective as the first bulk when you run them back to back. You always seem to get more of a re-comp consolidation of your gains in the second bulk rather than the rapid weight gain you can get in the first. So on basis of all that, I would probably suggest do a cut, tidy up, push again, and learn moving on. 25 pound is a decent gain off any cycle. It may know what you were expecting. Are you being unrealistic about what you were expecting? Or is a lot of that 25 pound muck? If there's a lot of that 25 pound is fluff, then fair enough. Valid point. If that 25 pound is not so much fluff and you've gained a good 10, 15 pound of solid muscle, you've had a very successful bulk, my friend. And you should be very pleased with that. That's not to say you can't push for more. You can. But, you know, I wouldn't be unhappy about that level of progress out of a bulk. If it's five pound of muscle and a shitload of fat, then, yeah, tidy up before you push again. Yeah. Yeah, I'm with you on that, man. Yeah, 25 pounds is nothing to laugh at, dude. That's a lot of freaking weight to have gained. Yeah, I would be happy with that. All right. Let me see. This is a long one here. Oh, Cornelius Parkin has one for us. What does he say here? He says, oh, I actually have a coaching question for you, Scott. My question is, let's say the guy who took the low dose dbol, he had great effects. That's awesome. But my question is, what happened to him when he stopped? I mean, surely, how long could you have done that for a few months at most? So what would you had to take that out again? What happened with his estrogen? Did you ever come up with a long term fix for that guy? He's got more there. But I don't. Oh, this is a guy that you had a dbol in to increase his estrogen, wasn't it? Well, I don't know if I did that. We had had we did have client or listeners that have talked about doing that. We had a guy say that he did that on his show on the show. I talked about a guy who just has low estrogen to begin with. And he's on 750 tests right now with no AI. And his estrogen is still like not out of control, man. We were going to add EQ, but we decided not to add the EQ because it would, you know, cripple him, basically. Yeah. Let me see. He has more here. So let me get to that first. He said, I asked this question because I have also coached for over 20 years. And we all take a slightly different approach to when it comes to this topic. Everyone has their own approach when it comes to pharmacology. But it is very tricky thing that we do. There's actions that have dire consequences. We have all seen it. People being reckless with other people's lives. And that's literally what it is to tell another human being to take a drug beyond what a doctor does. It's a very niche thing to do. Let's put it that way. Everybody handles it a little different. But when people say things like, oh, this coach is terrible because he made this person do X, Y, and Z, that's ridiculous. The exact same could be said about that coach. People see themselves as minor deities telling clients to take a cocktail of various drugs. But go 10 years down the line and see what the result is. It's often not very good. Because at the end of the day, the client knows what they're signing up for. They're signing up because they want you to tell them exactly what I think they should do. The problem is most people are already not healthy to start. We have these ideas about drugs. But one thing I have realized more than anything, and that is everybody responds differently. Very true. So to say I take this drug.  So I thought Thirsty was suggesting that you had told someone to take D-ball to manage to increase. You know, but there was a urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine urine Now, here's a thought, too. I think that some of the stuff we're talking about is managing things on cycle. You know what I mean? Like that's not a long term plan. Like if you were using compounds that say were to to to lower your estrogen, you know, maybe you have high androgens, but your estrogen ends up getting smashed in the process. Then maybe on that cycle, you know, in that situation, we're talking about finding a fix. But that's a temporary thing. That's not for a long term solution, because that person isn't going to be in that same anabolic environment that's causing the low estrogen long term either. You know, now, on the other hand, in the case of I mentioned, I had this client that's taking 750 tests. No way. I like here's the one thing I can say is that, you know, number one, I wouldn't ever say that I ever tell people like you need to do this. It's always their decision at the end of the day. If anybody ever feels like that, their coach is forcing them to do something, then they need to reevaluate that relationship. I think, you know what I'm saying, Dave? It's it's a very difficult area because there is a commonality where when a large number of people do fall into generally having the same to a varying degree, but the same reaction, I, you know, high test for most people is going to create high estrogen, high estrogen for most people is going to create certain side effects. Yeah, there are those that tolerate it better. These are those that can't tolerate it at all. Yeah. But there is this this commonality area within the middle, which is what we base most comments on. It's there will always be those that are outliers. There are always those that have problems. And some of those problems can be severe. You know, there's no doubt I've seen people end up in real messes with anabolics, both physically and mentally. So here's an example, Dave. Imagine this. So I've worked with like one guy recently who was over 300 pounds. OK, and he's we dieted him down. Now he's like 200 pounds. Right. And he looks a world different. He's got abs. He's walking around as a bodybuilder now. But that doesn't mean that he wasn't 300 pounds for most of his life. And he's not now free of all the ramifications of having been 300 pounds for all his life or a guy who maybe has had like a lot of, say, abuse from recreational compounds and drinking and stuff like that. You know, you might not be doing that stuff now. But if he did that for 15 years, maybe his response to orals is, you know, like maybe we want to rethink that. He's we're not all on the same level playing field, I guess, is what I'm saying. You know, we all as a coach, I think you try or a decent coach is going to try and be as responsible as possible. And he's also going to try and discuss options with the client. I tend to. Give a client or I try to tend to give a client, look, these are the options. This is what we're looking at. This is the risk factors. If you go this way based on most common responses, this is the risk factor. Go this way based on more common responses. However, how you respond. We don't know till we get there and I always have that sort of caveat in there that, look, you know, and I don't. I don't think I've ever told someone they have to do something when it comes to going on cycle. I have told them they have to do something when it comes to managing a problem. Yeah. Generally speaking, most of my clients get pissed off because I don't give them drugs soon enough or quick enough. Yeah. Or enough of them. Yeah. Most of them. You know what, too? And there are. I haven't got on cycle yet. Well, no, you haven't got on fucking cycle yet. There are people that want to take a lot of gear and they tend to gravitate toward the coaches that are. There's some aggressive coaches out there. Right. And there are people who are like, yeah, I want to work with that guy because I want to, you know, throw everything at it. I tend to get people who come to me who say like, yeah, I want to I want to do, you know, what it takes, but I don't want to go crazy and need. Like I get people who are, I think, a little bit more conservative nowadays, it seems, you know. I get people that are expecting a certain thing because of what I did to myself and they very quickly realize or find out. And I'm usually quite upfront. Look, don't put people on drugs straight away. Don't like taking people on for coaching that are already on cycle. I will do it, but it's a conversation. I like people to be at least TRT and legit TRT. I'm not, you know, my standpoint on the heavier stuff and take some time to assess them and how they respond to diet and training changes before we start looking at drugs. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows, too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast? I like those guys, too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look freaking jacked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. Bam! There we go. Get the good light. All right. We got a bunch of stuff still. What about besides Accutane, what's the biggest needle mover for treatment of shoulder and back acne? Have either of you seen dietary changes or over-the-counter supplements make noticeable changes? Thanks for the show. I think it's really individual, number one. But I would say this. If you're already kind of like things are out of control and you're dealing with a breakout, you're probably going to have a hard time getting that back under control while you're on cycle. Especially like if you're on cycle and you're getting acne. Sometimes it's a matter of like, hey, let's come back off. Let's get the androgens down. Let's retool. And then maybe approach it a little bit differently next time. Like maybe it's a compound choice or maybe it's an injection frequency. Dave, that's when I discovered high-frequency injections. You know, 15, 10 years ago, I was doing two shots a week of long-acting compounds and I went to every other day. And guess what, man? And I found that that helped my acne tremendously by, you know, trying to keep the hormones stable. And we've talked about that before. But maybe it's something as simple as that. That said, you're going to have a hard time fixing that if you're already in the thick of it and you're dealing with a breakout, you know? Yeah, I think the first thing is to try and determine the cause. Yeah. Otherwise, you end up just throwing shit at it. One thing that I found is a little cheat that's quite useful is using head and shoulders and other dandruff-medicated shampoos as a body wash. They will help manage a breakout to some extent. But there's, again, it's this, you know, there will always be those where it won't work for. But I found head and shoulders quite useful for a lot of people. Yeah. What's this one from Lucas in the stream? He says, Scott, question to Dave. He is from the Dorian era. Plus, he is a fine English gentleman. I don't know if I'd go that far. So what are his thoughts in regards to his current comments? You probably don't know about this because you don't follow. Current comments regarding Derek's win in the current bodybuilding scene. By the way, Lucas, we talk about that on the next. It's just bodybuilding coming out this week. I know what Derek's response was. I don't know what Dorian's initial criticism was. He said that basically that, like, come on, the dude is 5'5 and built like a refrigerator. And this is like the best. This is not the best of this is not the best bodybuilding there ever was. I'm always uncomfortable with commenting on pro bodybuilders because they are light and day much better than I've ever been. You know what I mean? So it always feels a little bit out of order saying it. I know what you mean. I do, if I'm honest, sort of. I think Dorian's going through a little bit of a reinvigoration of his profile in the sense of getting noticed again and getting back out there into the thick of things because he seems to be opening comment quite a bit on a few things. Nothing against it. You're right. He is, isn't he? First evening after, like, Mike Esretel. So he's kind of putting himself out there by talking crap about. So is he clout chasing? Is he clout chasing? Well, I don't know because at the same time, I think he had very valid points with Mike because he was actually in defense of Menza that he came out against Mike.  and I think Mike had particularly overstepped the boundaries with that one. He's like Mike, come on, you're being a dick here. You're being a dick here. You're being a dick here. You're being a dick here. I do tend to have to agree with him on Derek in the sense that, don't get me on Derek, Derek's far better bodybuilder than I've ever been, will ever be, but he isn't somebody that I look at and go, wow. He doesn't inspire me, he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't in any way, intrigue me, his physique, his physique, his physique, hisобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобобоб parable because you can't physically take Lee Priest in his prime in his early 20s and stick him next to Derek and say who's the better but I mean Lee's a prime example of someone who I think had an incredible physique for his you know when he was I'm so I am yeah I am sort of with Dorian on it I did see Derek's return which I thought was a little bit yeah fuck off but he had to return didn't he had to say something he had to defend himself it's all the nature of it but yeah from what little I've seen of it I am sort of sitting with Dorian on that what happens to me can we get an episode about injectable orals for example injectable anadrol or superdrol or msten seeing there are a lot of confusion out there if they bypass the first liver pass or not or if it is just a case of increased availability so what you don't get is the issues with fat binding in the stomach and therefore potential for some of the compound to just pass through you don't get the stomach information because of the compound having to go through the stomach and then be absorbed into the system but once it's in the bloodstream it pretty much runs the same journey as everything else it's still got to get processed by the liver it's still got to go through the liver yeah it still has to go it doesn't go from your stomach to the liver then to the bloodstream it goes from your stomach to the bloodstream then to the liver the difference with injectable is it goes from the muscle into the bloodstream then through the liver so you're still going to get that process so you bypass the stomach stuff and the potential for fat binding and not getting the full dose so you are getting a stronger dose you're getting a more direct dose but it's still going to go for the liver it's still methylated it still has that action so you're not getting rid of any of that yeah will you fellas be at the Arnold Classic in Ohio and if so what booth? Dave are you coming? no no can we get you doing your paperwork to come over and visit? I will be at the Arnold's UK because I just agreed to that oh so it is happening well yeah I'm still a bit so I got a message today saying I hadn't I've completed the application form for the stand I have not even got the application form so I'm not sure what's gone on there but I've asked for a new one to be sent out but we have we have picked a slot we've agreed to price and everything so yeah all right well listen anybody in the UK if you want me to come out there reach out to Mutant comment on their stuff and say bring Scott I really I would love to come out I would love to come out for the Arnold UK we have a distance relationship works very well the other side of the money I do not want to meet the prick in real life please do not send him you should come out here Dave and come to the Arnold Ohio the real Arnold first of all it's the real first of all that's the real Arnold Classic I agree yes I can't deny that it is come to Detroit we'll do a whole video about it me and you driving down to Ohio well I tell you what you get Mutant to lend me their solicitor okay to put together a proper proposal of we we want him here on a business trip and I will go to the embassy and get it sorted but I need some help all right yeah I'll probably be at Arnold Ohio and if I am I'll probably be at the Mutant booth they haven't said anything to me about it yet so we'll see but regardless I'm definitely going to show up so when we get closer I'll probably comment on wherever I'm going to be at my favorite part of the podcast is Scott and Dave busting each other's balls what are you talking about well just remember I only have small balls with a small willet so just remember that you didn't say anything about your balls you know well yeah but it comes to standard if you've got a small dick you've got a small balls I mean you're not going to have big balls and a little dick are you? you could I guess possibly I don't know I mean I suppose you could have a big dick and small balls if you've been on gear for a long time you could sort of be a decent member of a small willet small what balls but god that would be weird can you imagine it the other way around wouldn't that be painful? can T-ball be used as PCT? I don't even know where to start with that one Dave I don't even know no leave that out no you're right it's the part you do before the PCT okay this was a comment in Czech I actually copied and pasted this comment into chat GPT and I said what language is this? and it said that's in Czech so then I went to Google and I did a Czech to English translation that's how much work I went through with this comment Dave I don't think that they got it right though okay he says I'm curious about that if there are lions I won't inject more than 100 milligrams of testosterone into my body I'm not going to have estrogen shot for a month if you give lions shit again you won't achieve anything do you think that they got that right? does that sound right to you? I'm completely confused about the lions bit yeah I don't think the translation was accurate no what have lions got to do with anything? I don't know I don't think the translation worked for us by the way I did have just a little bit of insight who did we give shit to anyway? I don't know remember we were talking a little bit about injectable estrogen in the last episode so I talked to Victoria about it she doesn't want to go on record with like a big in-depth thing yet she said also too there is a lot more research coming out about it because of the trans population but one thing to keep in mind is that transdermal estrogen tends to be the most effective route that when you use injectable we can't predict that it is going to work the same in everybody and that for some people an injectable estrogen may convert to estrone so you might not necessarily get exactly what you want that often times injectable estrogen is not used as frequently as transdermal transdermal is the favor over injectable and over oral so oh right okay interesting because when you look at male hormone supplementation we tend to move away from transdermal because the bioevil is a bit naff so I find it interesting that the estrogen is actually better that way well there's good there's good there's good transference from topical testosterone it's just not you know it's just it's just messy okay you know I have a question for blunt force tanya what's that how do you know have you done a study on what on ball and dick relation size oh she says dicks and balls do not necessarily sink in size how much research have you done tanya all right we're not going to get into her personal life that's not professional nor is it polite dave i wasn't in that sense i was just curious you know have you seen a lot i mean i haven't seen a lot all right how about this one um okay i don't really have an answer for him so never mind anadrol over anavar it was a comment what do you think you would agree with that wouldn't you yes i would personally yeah if you had to pick one or the other oh i oxy hold that on dude they both destroy my appetite man yeah i mean there is there is that you do need a certain drive of of being able to drive food and if you're going to run oxy at any decent dose or length of time uh but from a pure milligram to milligram effectiveness i'd go on i'd go oxy over anavar any day yeah uh hey guys again a little question again if i may would you consider a DHT or bold controlled estrogen a healthier alternative to using an AI and or a cerm like if you're on let's say you  I don't know, I don't know how I read that there was no punctuation, like if you're on let's say, like if you're on let's say, it's easy, he's writing the way he talks, you know what I mean? I can't comment my type in is terrible. Oh yeah. 600 test in 400 DECA. So basically, here's the deal, are you better off using a DHT? Is that going to be healthier than using an AI? No. I would okay I would okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI okay with an AI If I run an AI and my estrogen is still not where I want it to be, I can increase the AI without having any other things to compensate or worry about. Whereas if I run a DHT for my estrogen management and say my estrogen management is too strong, I need to lower the DHT. How many people do you know that are happy lowering the dose? People don't like it. They are uncomfortable with it. And what you'll find is they'll try and compensate in another way. Oh, well, I'll just increase the test. So I think if you plan to run a DHT because you're wanting that compound for other effects, then yes, take advantage of the fact that it has an EMT-edrogen effect. But if you're not, AI is all the way. I've got an issue with AI, used correctly. I don't see what the fear mongering is about it. I think it's a lot of bollocks. And it just seems to be one of these other myths that's gone into bodybuilding as an excuse to run more drugs. Yeah. Yeah. So actually, we have one from Necrophil that I think would be great for the future. I'll write it down. He said, we talked about the least effective oral doses. What about the highest effective doses? We'll save that one. And then one more question. We've got two more. One of them is kind of confusing to me. Could a mild ECA dosage override the hunger the 200 milligrams of Trenin, 500 milligrams of Sust should bring? I wouldn't expect hunger from Trenin and Sust. I don't get that. But if you were experiencing increased hunger, I would be more tempted to lean into GLPs. Sure. But then the stimulatory effect that an ECA is going to create. So I would be more tempted to lean into GLPs. Yeah. I've definitely used a low dose of ephedrine as an appetite controller for myself in the past. That said, I would definitely, it would not be my first option. No. It wouldn't be mine either. I have as well. And it also left me with some, not long term, but long enough term anxiety issues. Yeah. You know what? I even found a low dose of ephedrine was helpful, like 12.5. Were you saying that, that what, what caused anxiety issues? Long term exposure to ephedrine. Oh, okay. I gotcha. Yeah. And that doesn't surprise me, man. All right. One more, it was from the beginning about thoughts on test EQ, DHB cycle, 750 test, 450 EQ, 200 DHB for bulking. I love it. In fact, I've got a number of clients that have wanted to use DHB since we've been talking about it. A lot of guys that are experimenting with it on either, and these are more advanced guys, but let's say one guy who was around a gram a test, 800 DECA, and then he would run 300 equipoise or 400 equipoise with that. We've gone to, instead of the 400 equipoise, 300 DHB. Or in another situation, lower doses test EQ and then a lower dose of DHB. I'm seeing guys get great results. And by the way, Dave, I had bought a brand of DHB that was just crippling. Like, no matter what I did, man, I couldn't get these shots to be comfortable, and I'm only using 100 milligrams per week, right? And it was still to the point where I'm taking a half a mil with one mil of test, so 100 test and 50 DHB, and I'm getting crippled. Like, I can't sleep on that side. One of my clients slash friends slash listeners connected me with a different brand, and it's absolutely painless. Zero pain. So I'm happy with that. It would be worthwhile just seeing what the solvent and carriers and stuff were in the two brands to see if there's anything in that. Yeah. Hey, did you see that Genoshek report that I sent you this morning? I haven't had a chance to look at it. I saw you'd sent it. It was something was a pile of crap, wasn't it? Yeah. So it basically showed – it wasn't necessarily a pile of crap. I don't know what this means. But what it came out to here was – let's see here. Where is it at? There's the Riverside link. So it was a bottle of Genisa Pharmaceuticals NPP. It seems to have tested positive for – it failed for molds and yeasts. So I don't know what that means. You can physically see them in the pictures. Is that what it is? Yeah. It's – yeah, that's one of the big concerns around harm reduction, and this was always a big concern with peptides, was bacterial load of the vials. Okay. They weren't particularly concerned with the peptides as the compounds. They were more concerned with just the bacterial side of things because apparently they were prone to having it. I've not – I'm a bit surprised of seeing it in an injectable anabolic when you should have alcohol in there because, I mean, filtration is supposed to remove the contaminants and alcohol is supposed to keep it sanitized. So – Yeah. It would be interesting that there's no – is there a breakdown of – there's not a breakdown, is there, of what was in the compound from a point of view of everything else? It just says it's failed for – Yeah, and it doesn't tell you, like, by what degree, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Well, obviously, they've grown because that's what you can see there in that dish. They've grown it. Is that what that is? That's what they feel there? That's what I think that is, yeah. I think that's a culture. Hmm. All right. Oh, we had one more, Dave. This was our Uncle Dave's advice question. Let's see here. He says, Think Big has great shows, but I'm most partial to DNS, which is called drugs and stuff for anybody who doesn't know because we hardly say that anymore. I've been loving the throwback episodes between Mondays. Guys, if you want to check into the live channel, I've been posting old episodes that aren't available anymore over there. Think Big Live. I'm looking at some of Scott and Dave's relationship advice or looking for some of Scott and Dave's relationship advice. I'm 35. I have had all the toxicity that modern relationships have to offer. I'm new into bodybuilding. I worked out a lot in high school, and I've recently started weight training again three years ago. Initially, the low dose cycles, sub 500 milligrams total, but I've titrated up to one gram plus. I would love to actually build a real physique, but my love life always hinders progress in the way of growth hindering stress. I am better in the gym alone, but my window to settle down or to start a family is passing, so it seems. No wife, no girlfriend, no kids, and no intention on competing either. My question is, is this an improper time of my life to switch from chasing procreation goals to physical aspirations out of personal vanity and distaste for dating? Appreciation and support coming from Ontario, Canada, hyped three times. Oh, yeah. Thank you. Hit the hype buttons, guys. You can hit it three times, I guess. So there's nothing wrong with focusing on physique goals above a relationship if that's what you want to do. However, it sounds like it's more a case of you're falling into focus on training because relationship goals haven't worked out. Now, if that's the scenario where it's like, look, every relationship I've tried has ended up being too much like hard work or problematic, then I would suggest that your market stall is displaying the wrong goods. Now, you want me to explain that now, don't you? I like that. Your market stall is explaining the wrong goods. Yes. I think a problem that we often have in relationships or in developing relationships and starting relationships and the type of people we attract is because we're selling the wrong fucking thing. And we're not selling who we are. We're selling what we think people want. We're selling what we're selling. But that isn't you. So if you're. I'm not saying you need to be brutal with this, but I do think you need to be honest when it comes to starting relationships. ! R-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration-ration- that's fine. I won't train today and I'll break diet to do that for you. Now, relationships are about compromise. But if you set off on the foot that you're willing to drop training or drop diet at the drop of a hat to please your partner, then that's what they're going to expect. Where if you go around, well, that's fine, but I can't, my cheek window's not till Saturday, happy to do it Saturday, but until then I'm sticking to my diet and I'm training. That's your choice and that's fine. Obviously, the person that you're currently with may not want that so they may move on to somebody else, but you will find someone that does. So I think it's important that what you put out on your stand for sale is who you are. And then the person getting involved in you gets involved with you for you, not for what you're trying to be, pretending to be, or think they want. And I think that's where a lot of people screw up is they don't be themselves and they put on this, this false, not necessarily because they're trying to deceive. They just want to make a good impression. No, I get where you're coming from, dude. That makes a lot of sense. If it's not sustainable and it's not really you, then what the fuck are you doing? Because you're not going to attract the person that wants to be with you. You're going to attract the person that wants to be with this made up thing you've created. Right. What if he does this, man? What if he just tries to live the life that he wants to live? And here's the thing. I've got a problem with one aspect of this. He said, like, my selfish goals of vanity, wanting to... Is it really vain to want to better yourself? Is it vain? It can be vain to do bodybuilding, but it doesn't have to be. You know what I'm saying? Sometimes people are like, oh, man, these guys who spend all this time in the gym, they're just vain. But dude, honestly, man, some people are spending time in the gym because it helps build them up to be better human beings. There's a lot of positive things you can get out of it. You just have to ask yourself, how does it balance within the rest of my life? Could he be the person he wants to be working on his physique and attract maybe a better quality of person that, you know what I'm saying? That wants to be with him for who he is? That comment almost says to me that the issue or there's been an issue with a partner who is actually is vain and hasn't liked the fact that they're not getting 100% of the attention. So they've thrown it back on him as him being the problem in the relationship. Yeah, I could see that. You spend too much time in yourself. Well, no, I spend time on myself bettering myself. But yeah, also, you know, you've got to understand that if you want a relationship, there's always going to be a little bit of give and take. But that doesn't mean. But at the same time, you need to make sure that what you put out there is who you really are so that the people you attract are attracted to who you are, not who you want to be or are pretending to be. There will be an element of give and take. There will need to be an element of flexibility in a relationship. But it doesn't have to be to the point where you're not. Yeah, you're giving up on the fundamentals of what you feel makes you. And that just sounds to me like actually the problem is the partner was vain, not you. And they threw it on you because they didn't like the fact that they weren't the center of your fucking world because they want to be the center of your world because they are vain and they want that. Whereas a true partner is going to want what's best for both of you and allow you time to grow and develop as a person yourself as long as you allow time to share that with them. I remember being in a relationship with a girl while I was getting ready for a contest. And as I'm getting in shape, you know, you see a mirror at the house, right? You get your shots and all that. You can't help it. Like, that's just what you do. And she was like, you know, she was like, she said something about being vain. Like, you're just always looking at yourself in the mirror, you know? And I was like, it's what I'm doing. Like, I'm doing this bodybuilding thing. My body is the thing I'm working on. And it's like, I never thought of it that way because it wasn't like I'm looking at myself and be like, oh God, you're so good looking and looking. You know what I mean? It's not like that. You're like, oh, my delts look good. I need to bring my waist in. And you know what I mean? You're trying to perfect this thing. You got to look at it to perfect it. That's usually driven by the fact that they're getting more and more insecure because you are starting to look better and better and better. And they start to feel like maybe I'm not good enough. Maybe I'm not enough. I feel threatened by how good they look. And that happens, dude. Yeah. When it's like, no, just this is only for three months, four months, and then I'll be back to being a fat slob again. Don't worry about it. I'll soon be a sack of shit again. You don't need to be concerned. I worked with a guy who never competed before and decided to try it. And I didn't know if we're going to be able to make it to the show. And he is a guy I knew personally here in the Detroit area. I am certain that he won't hear this and his girlfriend won't hear this. His actually wife now won't hear this. She did not like the idea. Okay. And she started trying to sabotage him to the point where like he would go out and work for like 16 hours and then he'd still make it to the gym. And then she would say, honey, can you pick me up some Arby's on the way home and get me the curly fries? And, and he said, he was like, you know what? He was, she was trying to tempt me and I just wouldn't give in. And then it became a game where he was like, fuck it. I'm just going to get whatever she wants and I'm not going to crack. I'm not going to crack. And so she started laying it on thicker and she was like, Oh, stop by Dairy Queen today and pick me up a blizzard and get me a, you know, a banana split. She ends up two stone fire because she's trying to get him to break a diet. So finally we get to the point where I hadn't seen him in person for a little, like a month. Right. And he's sending pictures and stuff and all this. Then I meet him in the gym and we're two weeks out from the show. And on this night, we're going to decide like, can we make it to this show? And I see him in person and I go, Oh my God, his face looks like a skeleton dude. Like he was ready. Like he's so everything. The second I saw his face, I was like, Holy shit, dude. Like I already know you are peeled to the bone. Right. So we go in the locker room and I look at him. I'm like, yep, man, you're absolutely like, we're doing this show. It is going to be lights out. And then he texts me a couple of days later and he was like, I can't do it. She told me it was, she finally, she waited to that moment. Cause she had the hopes that he wasn't going to be able to do it. And after we finally said, yep, you're good to go. She said, Nope, I'm I, you got to pick. It's the show or me. You can't, you can't do it. It's either the show or me. She didn't want women backstage oiling him up and stuff. And yeah, I mean, the problem is that that speaks more volumes about her than it does about him. And it's unfortunate. It's human nature. We do it, but it's unfortunate that, you know, we do tend to look outward with our problems rather than inward, which is what we really should be doing because the problem is actually lighting us, not in the people around us, but we'll always look rather than face the reality of that face our insecurities and face potentially the hard work required to change that. We will always look outward for a causation of blame, something we can put it on. You know, I mean, this time of year is common. We touched on this earlier on and this actually falls really well into it. It's like, I have one more thing before you switch gears. I want to say this too, though, Dave, I feel like, uh, he, so this was over a decade ago. I've had a lot of time to think about it. I also put part of the blame on him because he didn't make her feel comfortable with the situation. You know what I'm saying? Like there's an element of like, if, if your significant other is feeling insecure, you got to go out of your way then to like, let them know, like, no, I'm only got eyes for you. This has nothing to do with me leaving. You know what I'm saying? I think that there is an element that maybe he could have worked harder at that. And instead, I think he may have been flaunting it a little bit. Like, yeah, I am getting in good shape. You know what I mean? If you haven't had it, it's like people that suddenly find wealth, they tend to flaunt it initially until it settles and they get comfortable being in that financial fund. And how many times have you seen where that actually does happen and then he leaves her? You know what I'm saying? Like he thinks he's the shit now that he's competing, but yeah, I'm sorry. As you understand. All I was saying was moving on from the, you know, taking responsibility for stuff and things and being honest about where you are and, and, and then working on fixing your problems instead of trying to transplant them onto everybody around you. It's, it's something that happens a lot this time of year with diet, you know, it's Christmas. I've got a Christmas party. I've got this, I've got that. So I haven't been able to stick to my diet. Well, no, you have, you've just chosen not to, and use this as a justification rather than facing the fact that you don't want to. Yeah. And it's okay if you don't want to, you know, this is, this is the stupid thing about it. At the end of the day, it's your physique. It's your appearance. Your actions are the ones that affect that. If you want to go to a Christmas party with work and stuff yourself stupid and get absolutely rat ass, that is your choice. You can do that. You don't have to feel guilty about it.  but you also have to, but you also have to, but what that's going to do, how you look and feel, but, what you don't do is go, Oh, well, I had to, because, No, you didn't have to, because, No, you didn't have to, do anything, you chose to, Accept that, Deal with that, Deal with that, and that's, the start of the process, of becoming, Responsible about your actions, around food, I know, I'm a great one, to talk on this subject, but, but, it is, because, you then, start, but, it is, because, you then, start, to, be, start, become, you know, I do have choices. Yeah. Now, if I choose to do that, that's fine, but I choose to accept what that causes as well, and that's where a lot of people start to struggle. You know. Well, we hope we helped him. That was some dear Davey wisdom that we had there. Dave, I hope you have a great time on your trip, man. So do I, sir. So do I. I hope you get to relax, unplug, you know, get rid of the phone for a little while, dip your feet in the ocean. Don't get bit by a shark, okay? I'm going to go and hunt one and eat it. All right. Yeah. Shoot some video of that. I want to see that. That'll be good. And guys, Merry Christmas to you. I hope you guys have a great Christmas. We'll see you in the new year, since Dave's going to be away on his holiday. You guys don't call it vacation. Call it holiday. Holiday. Yeah. I'm going to do, I'll end up doing a live stream, I'm sure, in its place. So I'll tow the rope while Dave's away, you know, keep putting out the shows. You are such a martyr to the cause, sir. I bow to you and your dedication to our generally unappreciative funds. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. And Dave, I do hope you have a great time, man. Go to evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave. Check out Strong Sports Nutrition. Get them in the U.S. and the U.K. They've got great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And of course, TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THING to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein, creatine, and intra-workout. Guys, for another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosland, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Dave.