I got to throw this out there for any YouTube reviewers that are watching this right now. Guys, there is nothing that we are trying to sell here whatsoever. This is simply for educational and I think entertainment purposes, too. I'm going to be pretty entertained by this. I think a lot of people at Walmart are too. Wow. I used to have those hydroropens. Are those the Green Giants? And yeah. What is that? Original organ on sus 250s three on. Holy crap. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Trucks and Stuff with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNell and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people at Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We have some Patreon questions today. We are also brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK and you're on cycle or even if you're not, you're gonna need to get your labs done. can get your labs done by Dave. We are brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think for additional savings in strongports nutrition in the UK, in the US, and I just got a message from one of our listeners that they're also in Australia and New Zealand now. So check them out. Uh so check out support max specifically uh if you're on cycle especially. And uh of course supplements.ca for Canadians. Dave, as promised, we have show and tell today. First of all, before we get started though with it, what what is like what is this box? You have a box with you. What what is this box for? Now I think it's an archive. Um but uh originally it was when I was doing presentations to show different types of anabolics um the different types of packaging, how they come, that sort of stuff. The John Mo University Hospital in Liverpool have an incredible steroid collection. Yeah. Did you get to use any of them? I I did actually. And were they good? I did pinch some stuff off them. Uh, no. They were they they were there was just this mad collection of gear that they've collected over in excess of a decade. Wow. Okay. Um, and there's just so many different types and and it's honestly I think they should all be put display box and make a little steroid museum. It'd be great. Uh, so this is my portable version of that, but on a much much much smaller scale. Okay, I love it. And hey, I got to throw this out there for any YouTube reviewers that are watching this right now. Guys, there is nothing that we are trying to sell here whatsoever. This is simply for educational and I think entertainment purposes, too. I'm gonna be pretty entertained by this. I think a lot of people at home are too. What do Where do we start here? What do we got? So, we start. By the way, this hasn't seen the light of day in several years. That's like a spy briefcase. Yes. Oh, I used to take it on airplanes and also, so uh How did that go flying around with that thing? Interesting. To be honest, never had a problem. Did you have to handcuff it to yourself? No. So, yeah. You ready? Yeah, I'm ready. Drum roll. Oh, yeah. It will postprouction. Oh, wow. I used to have those hygiens. Is that hyotropin box hygien or dot? So, it's from hygiene farmer. Huh. And it's a 100 IU. It's the 10 IU vials. Yeah. Okay. I see an expiration date of 2015 on there. They used to start out, they had a 200 unit kit that was a square box. I had that and I had it like saved. I put it in my background for a while and then I dated this stupid girl Lindsay and she was like, "Yeah, you can throw that stuff away. Why are you keeping that?" So I threw it out because I listened to her. One vial left in it. Yeah. Yeah. So they went from the 8 IU to the 10iou vials and that was their 100 unit kit. Those were fantastic, dude. When those first came out, they overdosed them because there was hydroropen. There was one the original and then another company faked them and they overdosed their product so that their version was stronger and so the original company started overdosing theirs. Bill Llewellyn tested those and they were like 99.99% pure. They were more pure than some Pharma GH and they were 14 units per kit or 13. So this is from 2009 and this is Winstrom. Oh wow. Who's the manufacturer on that one? March Pharmaceutical Company Limited in Thailand. Some Thailand winnings. And you got them in there still, huh? Still full. The difference is with my bottles, they're all empty that I had. Um, so we have, hold on. What we got? Oh, we've got ROM, which is a big lab over in the UK. Still going today. Okay. XX tabs from 2012. Hold them up. Hold them. There we go. XX tabs. What's a XX tab? So, XX tab was Debo, Winstrol, and Oxy Mixed. Wow. Total dose of 40 milligrams. Okay. And that's not bad if you took one a day, I guess. So, this is let 2.5 milligrams per mill sprayable bottle in a pump. Yeah. Research quality stuff. Uh then we very circa 2009. Isolabs Clomid. Okay. Who needs that? Throw that. This these were pretty big back in the day. Oh, are those the green giants? Andraulics. Yeah. Yeah. 50 mg. You got any in there still? You can take. It's empty. Oh, Dave was going to take an an and androlic right now on on TV in front of you guys. Chinese Glenn. Okay. I might have actually had those, Clint, before. What were those doseds at? 40s. Okay. Uh, empty. How many of those are you going to take today? None. It's empty. and then we've got Proviron. And this Wait, what kind of Pervyon? Bayer. What does the bottle look like? Are the Are they blister? Yeah, blister packs of 10. Genuine. Boring. Boring. Why did I get that little glass vial? Do you know the ones I'm talking about? They came in a little amber glass vial. Because they weren't real, probably. No, they were legit, man. And then I've got what we got here. We So this is Iranian test. Oh yeah. Okay. That's full. Those are in there. Let's see them. Let's see them. Can you take them out? Still got the instructions. Got the insert in there. Yeah. Ooh. Have they crashed? No, they haven't. They're still good. They're out. Oh, no. They actually expired this year. You better get those in you right now. There's 10 in total. Oh, nice. Cut out for you this year. Now, now we're getting to some real genuine stuff. Okay. What is that? Original organ sus 250s. Three in a bag. Susted on. Holy crap. I had one proper legit farmer. I bought one bottle of that and I took it and I swear to you it felt like somebody hit me in the hip with a baseball bat. That was that might have been the first test I ever took actually. Pure Trig HCG. Oh, you're off camera. I can't see you. Right, there we go. Okay. Yeah. And the Pragal stuff. Yeah, I've had those before. Yeah, proper stuff. MSD. Also, HCG. What's that one? HCG. Oh, more. I haven't seen those before. Yeah, these uh It's all in English, huh? Oh, no. It's uh It looks like it's Indian. Yeah, it is. It's Indian. dbol. dbol. Tell me you have some napison in there. Some Romanian original Dballs. I do have dbol, but not that. I have ROM Dballs and I have Cambridge Research Dballs. Ah, I don't know either of those. Uh, and then test prop 10 mil V. Ooh. So, that's what the original uh Injectable dbol was in. Um but they had it mixed in uh um B12 because it was a a what do you call it? Waterbased. So this this is this is a farmer farmer company out of Lagos. Okay. So is that more modern? They're still making those. This is No, that's 2007. I implore any UGL's watching this right now, come out with those little skinny vials like that of the 10 mil vials. Those would be cool. This is my favorite. What's that? This is Arnold testosterone. That's what Arnold took. That's That's exactly what Arnold used. And it comes in a little blister pack with a vial and a syringe and a needle and everything. They give you the whole kit. Huh. Yeah. Wow. Uh some people will be familiar with this. They went down a few years ago. I don't know that one. Alpha Farmer. Oh, yeah. Okay. No. So, I didn't know them, but you've mentioned them before. Yeah. Yeah. Um, what was that? A 10 mil vial of Nanderlone. That's That's Deca. Yeah. And then we've got Right. These are very old. These are candy stripes. Candy stripes. So, that's uh that's a real weird blend of test. It's 350 mg. Huh. SRT. Hang on. So it is 30 mg of acetate 30 migrams 70 milligrams of decanate 80 mg of um enthnate 70 mg of isocarb 60 milligrams of fennel prop and 40 milligrams of propanate. Wow. Okay. That's a really weird Yeah. Quite the blend. Ever seen trend that dark? Oh yeah. Yeah. in in my box that turns that dark after it's oxidized for a decade. Yeah, that's 2010. Yeah, I bet you it's still good. You could boot that up right now. You'd be good. The English guys will remember Pro Chem. Prom. Okay. It was a very big lab in the UK. No longer. What is that? Proponate. Yeah. test prop. And then the unfortunate named ISIS which are no longer with us for good reason. And they're like, "Yeah, they probably came out with that before the uh the terrorist organization." Early MedTech. Medtech is still going. That's a cheap looking label if I've ever seen one. Yeah, it is. It's got a hologram on it. What are you on about? Well, they stuck the hologram on after, Dave. It doesn't count. Uh, yeah. What's that? Oh, British Dragon. I know that very well. What was that? What was that? That is tren. Wow. Okay. I used their their test sip was the first legit cycle that I ran of tests. So, this is Zenic. Okay. No idea where that's from. And then this is another weird. So this is a Zaralone International Try 10150. Huh. Okay. Which doesn't look like tread at all to me. It looks like test. Yeah. Sometimes it doesn't It's not always dark though, right? Yeah. Yeah. But it's old. Is that so? Yeah. test prop candy stripe. What's the candy stripe? Is that a brand? Yeah. So see the lids? Yeah. Yeah. Wait, hold it up higher. There you go. So, there was no there was no lab there was no name on the labels, but they all had these stripe lids. And that's just what people called it was candy stripe. That's what I called it. I don't know if anyone else did. Okay. So, this is a Pro Chem Equaball. So, EQ. Okay. 300. EQ300 and Amber Vial. That's nice. XL Farmer. They might still be going actually. Yeah. Okay. That's not a bad looking label. Uh chemics. They were around for a short time. What size is that? A 20. That's a 20 mil. Yeah. Wow. You used it all up, huh? Yeah. I didn't use it all up. Uh CRS, that's a more recent one that's recently gone, actually. What was the CRS? CRS was um test SIP. Okay. Yeah. First test SIP we've seen today. AMD Labs. Oo, look at that fancy clear label. Test 450. Okay. Huh. Test 450. That's going to bite. Yeah, this one has dissolved the bottle. Oh, okay. That's M. Holy. Holy crap. What kind of super solvents were in that thing? That rubber stopper is literally exploding, man. And to think people would be putting that in their bodies. This was quite a good lab in its day as well. And this is this is still sealed. Uh so this is Oh, I can This is mass prop. You get you get a lot of money for that. Well, at the moment it's like rocket [\h__\h] Right. Right. Signature. Okay. So, that was a decent lab for a while. And then what are these? These are a bit brittle actually. Careful with these. Testo rapid test prop one uh one millules. Okay. Okay, that sounds good. Sorry, I'm terrible with the camera today. I didn't I keep getting it out of the way. That's all right. And and then the rest is just some uh Oh, goodness. HCG Italian, I believe. H Who cares about HCG? Who cares about HCG, Dave? Where's your D balls? You said you got some dbol. So, I got a a Cambridge Research 10 milligram Dballs. Okay. How many came in that bottle? Uh, 100. Do Yeah. Yeah. And then I got some ROM 10 milligrams. I never saw that company. ROM. Yeah. They've been around decades. Huh. Still operate in the UK. Okay. And I think that is basically it. Oh, yeah. And just I mean it's not but um Yeah, that one's empty. Yeah, that's real. Yeah, I I've got one of those. I mean my I have a Humatroe pen. That's one of my old ones. Is it memory of the money the money you spent on that? Yeah. In fact, I think I got my Hold on a second. Let me see if I can grab it. Could have bought a nice car for that. See if I can dig that out quick if I can find it. He's got suitcases full. It's going to be a while. Here it is. Here it is. This is from a 72 IU Lily Humatrope pen right here. Little kit, little case that comes with it. When you spend that kind of money, you get a case. I used to have one of the proper reusable cartridge pens, but the proper pens. Yeah. Not the plastic things, the proper really nice smart pens. So, this thing has little levers to open it up. And then you open that up and boom, here we go. This is what the pen looked like. And basically just take that off. And then here's the cartridge. So if you were to buy your human trope card, it'd look like that. And you'd have to reconstitute it. You get the dilutant, the dilluent, and then you just, you know, boom boom boom dose it in there. Yeah. I used to they used to do um nolva uh no Nord Nordropen did um they did a a proper like you know like the really nice fancy insulin pens you can get. So they're not plastic. They're like like proper fountain pen almost looking things. Really? I haven't seen those. Yeah. So Nord used to do these. They were they were about 200 quid for the pen alone. And you needed you needed to be on a proper script to buy them. Really? Um it was like a fancy item. Huh. Yeah. Yeah. And I used to have it was so people could carry growth hormone that were using it and not look like they were carrying drugs. Well, like they had a pen in the pocket. Somebody asked, "Is that an AK-47 behind you, Scott?" No. No. There's nothing to be seen behind me. Pay no attention to anything behind me. Could you see that? Yeah, I guess you could see that, couldn't you? That was it. It would How many have you got now? Uh, a handful. I got enough. Enough for what? A small war. Well, if we didn't lose the monetization before, we shall now. We mentioned a terrorist organization. We showed 100 different vials of gear, and now we're talking, uh, you know, weapons. Yeah. Anyway, guys, I hope you appreciated the tour. So, um, you would do talks and these would be your props, basically, not your test props, but these are your props. What what did you use these for? Like what kind of what was it for? For education. Basically, it was more, you know, this is how they look. This is what they come in. As you can see, there's a wide range of different packages, different styles. You know, some look a bag of [\h__\h] some look really professional. Yeah. Um and and you know, it was it was sure just an identity thing. um more of a just um it was a part of it was to have a bit of people work well with visuals. So when you're doing presentations and you're doing a you're deaf by [\h__\h] PowerPoint. Yeah. Um so having a couple of things that are actually tactile and real that they can touch and it just helps punch bits home. Did you pass them around? Yeah. Did you ever find that like there was an empty spot in your box at the end of the day? Like oh where did that ball go? I what I tended to do was leave the box at the front and let people come and view it. But I do think there was one occasion when one went missing. Yeah. But I'm not exaggerating. When when I went over Martin I went to meet Martin at Liverpool at the uni where he used to base. Martin Chandler, sorry. He's a researcher. Uh I believe he's a fellow of Birmingham now. Um but I've worked with Martin for years in the harm reduction stuff. Yeah. myself, Martin, Jim McVey, who's a professor of substance misuse, um, and a few others. And they had this room in Liverpool. It was full of filing cabinets, and every filing cabinet was full of drugs. Really? Oh, it was mad, mate. There was some [\h__\h] there. You're like, "What the [\h__\h] is this?" There was some great weird and wonderful stuff. Yeah. And I sort of at one point I wanted to sort of add this mad collection of different anabolics from around the world, but I just never followed through with it. But I thought it would have been fun at some point to just, you know, loads of different mad vials of different places and different blends and but never never actually followed through it. So I start I got me case and I started with that and then I was going to expand it and it just fell by the wayside. Oh, right on, man. Well, that's cool. Thank you for the tour. We appreciate it. Uh guys, if you want to take part in the next show, then uh leave us questions. We'd be happy to take them. And uh we do have I think a lead topic for the next episode, which would be the lowest doses uh basic no, excuse me, the safest the safest steroid cycles. So, that's what I think we're going to talk about next week. Um, but we do, like I said, we have a bunch of listener questions today and you guys can leave questions for the next show. Hey, what's up guys? I wanted to take a break from the podcast and do something that would be a little bit different to keep you entertained while I do my True Nutrition ads. So, I brought Maddie with me. I want to let you know, oh, she doesn't like the mic. I want to let you know that uh the code think now offers 10% off at True Nutrition. That's the main thing I want to tell you. You know, I talked to the people over there. We got that set up and now I get commission on orders. So I get 5% off or you guys get 10% off. I collect 5% commission. There's people coming. Don't you bark. There's a dog walking by. It's okay. You're all right. Anyway, uh I'm going to put a link in the description and uh I think that if you use that link, it'll add it'll put the code in automatically. But uh it's code think. It helps to support the show. You guys get awesome supplements in the process. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm going to place an order myself this weekend for the cookie butterflavored whey isolate cold filtered. Maddie, she's got nothing to say on that one. Anyway, that's it guys. We appreciate you guys watching the shows. Appreciate you supporting the programs. Let's get back to it. Let me start with a couple things from Patreon. Um, what's T3 look like during peak week and show day? Small tablet, usually white, but looks almost like a sweetener, like a saccharine or or that sort of thing. Pull some out of your box so you give it a We don't have any actually. Yeah, you guys have um and I'm sorry because we do have people that are like you guys take too long to get to the answers, but I am going to totally derail us, derail us. In the UK, your like sugar substitute looks like a little pill. It comes in a little plast or little paper sleeve. You rip it open, it's literally like a pill inside. It can come in that or it comes in a little plastic dispenser like a Tic Tac dispenser but smaller. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's wild. and you you press the button at the top and it just Yeah, ours is just powder. Ours is powder. We do that version as well. We do the powder version as well. Here's the deal with T3. I generally don't run it at high doses with myself or with people. It's more of a replacement dose thing to keep things humming along for fat loss. And in that case, we usually don't need to do anything with it coming into a show. Um, you know, formerly years ago, I used to use it more as a fat burner and we might push that dose up higher. And I do think that when you get to 50 mics, 75 mics, uh, or I've even seen people go higher than that. I think I ran it at up to 100 the first time I tried it. Um, just following like the message boards, it can get harder to fill back out. So, I think that that's the the issue. But realistically, if the dose is low, you don't need to do anything with it. You know, I I tend to cap out at 37.5. Yeah. Yeah, that's a pretty good dose. I might go a little bit higher for a short period of time if we need that extra push. Yeah. If someone's really struggling and they haven't put the work Well, that's a bit harsh actually to say they haven't put the work in. But it's usually the case that you're trying to play catch up because they've been lazy fox at the early part. But yeah, I I I I would consider higher, but I generally try and like cap out about 37.5. Um when you're Now this is this I'll be interesting to hear your take on this. How much of a risk do you think there is to muscle when you're at the real nittygritty end of a diet in running high T3? I think as far as what you see on stage, if you're pushing the doses up higher, it's a significant risk that if you're getting higher dose plus high cardio plus super low food, I I do think that there is more of a risk because you get flattened out and stringy on it. Um, is it real muscle loss? Yeah, I I would argue maybe not because then post show you come off the T3, you reduce the cardio, you're eating more food, and then you completely volumize back up. I've always looked at it as being like a sponge. And a sponge dries out, it all shrivels up and looks smaller. But once you fill that sponge back out, it's the same sponge it was before. I do think you can lose muscle, but it's a lot harder than than than we sometimes think. The visual loss though is another thing and I think that can happen especially with higher dose D3. I identify as a sponge. Hello. Yeah. Okay. Like Spongebob. I'm just in my filled out stage. Yeah. I I think so. And I think that that's a good case for growth hormone. I think growth is really great for countering the flattening effect that you can get from T3. But yeah, I just don't run it high, you know, to begin with. Let's see what else we have here, Dave. Um, oh, how about this one? Oh, before I while I remember, cuz we're talking about stage, I remember Ramana competed at Empire and got second in women's bodybuilding. Oh, hell yeah. Hell yeah. She looked jack. She looked shredded. She looked really good. You had shown me pictures of her uh coming into the show, man. She looked freaking incredible, dude. She looked [\h__\h] awesome, mate. Um, but I think she's going to bow out for the rest of this year and work on some areas she she feels she needs to improve. Okay. Well, good for her, man. How about I think she's made she's made a decision yet, but she has mentioned it. Um, uh, let's see. What's a Okay. How would a three-year plan look to get from 200 to 250 pounds lean? I mean, I think it's kind of hard. What? What are you thinking, Dave? Would I have a bugger? What's going on? No. No. One cycle, four gram, six months, sorted. Yeah. I don't know if that's good advice. It's doable. Yeah. 250 solid. No, it's gonna depend on the person, isn't it? Because it is. I've worked with some guys dude that are like 100 pounds in a couple years just straight line up and other guys it's like you gain and then you have to recop gain and then I've genuinely had clients 30 40 50 pound in a cycle with with more than a reasonable fat gain. But I've also had clients struggle to put five pound on in a cycle, you know. So it it genetics play a massive role in this but also your ability to work hard and that that's you can to an extent outwork genetics. Yeah. Uh it would depend is your 200 pound like I'm 200 pound I'm reasonably lean and I've never really done much in a way training or geocycles or is your 200 pound I've been slogging for 10 years. Yeah. I started at 125. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah, you know, that's going to have a huge significance on how achievable the 50 pound is in the period of time. But I don't think it's an unreasonable one. It's not one of those where I'm going, you're going to struggle here. I think that's perfectly reasonable to achieve. Um, but it it's I think people underestimate the work ethic that guys that make big gains put in. Yeah. And I think they underestimate the dedication that these guys that I mean for all my faults and I've got plenty um in in what I developed as a physique. I lived and breathed, you know, I never missed a meal. I never cheated on my diet. Even though I wasn't the leanest, I still never cheated on my diet. It was still strictly what it was supposed to be. And I went into that workout every time in my head it was the last chance I ever had to train. And that was the mental. I lived and breathed it. I went to bed every night visualizing the growth. I went to bed every night dreaming on what I was trying to achieve. I went to bed every night. I woke up with the same focus every morning. This is what I'm doing. This is what I'm doing it for. Uh it never left me for a second. Um and you know, I think when you're pushing extreme progress, that's where you're going to have to be unless you are extremely genetically gifted. I mean, I know a few bodybuilders. Um, in fact, I don't think Sean would mind me mentioning his name. Sean Tiverier has got incredible genetics. I'm not saying he didn't work hard because he did, but he still had incredible genetics. I mean, there's the only guy I know that would start the show season and be bigger by the end of the show season. Yeah. And most people won't make that kind of progress, but my thought is this, Dave. If somebody can do exactly what you're talking about, like nail the training, nail the diet, be 100% in every aspect, plus of course they're running gear, trying to push things as hard as they can, that no matter what your results are after 3 years, we can say that that was literally the best you could do. You know what I mean? And that's where the genetic aspect comes in. And you have to kind of then accept, you know, I mean, I worked my butt off to be the best I could be. And granted, I got a later start in being consistent, you know, and and had I started at say 20, maybe it would have been a somewhat of a different story. Um, but that said, man, like I did everything I could to reach my goals. And so, at the end of the day, it's like, you know, some people are going to reach pro level, some people aren't, you know, but that's not what bodybuilding is. It's not about, you know, the the reward you got. It's about having done your best and maximize your genetics, you know. Yeah. I I I think you've you've got to be it's about the achievement for you. Now, if you're coming from u very seditary lifestyle, no interest in physique, fat, overweight, unhealthy, unfit, uh and can't go a day without eating a chocolate bar. And you get to a point where you're relatively on point for six days of the week. Yeah. and you're 12 14% and you're relatively active. That's a massive win. You know, you though you you may not be a competition winning bodybuilder, but you've definitely built your physique and you've come a huge way from where you are. And I think we can get a little bit wrapped up in in in the competition standard. And yeah, these guys are amazing and credit to what they achieve, but it's all relative to the individual. And if you've beaten food addictions or poor eating habits or poor relationships and you've got off your ass and improved your lifestyle, then all credit to you. Yeah, it's still a reward. You might not have a plastic trophy to show for it, but yeah, crack on. You might have a plastic toy to show for it, but it doesn't make it any less of achievement. We had Kuba on yesterday. Kuba said crack on. And I actually stopped him. I said, "Wait, Kuba, did you happen to say crack on?" And he said, "I did." And I said, "Okay, good. Dave would like to know that." All right. How about this one? Um, because we did have a bunch more. So, test sip uh every other day. Should you take that im or subq? Hang on. Hang on. Oh, hang on. I'm gonna mess with Dave when he gets back. Watch. Pulled me cable. Ah, it's back in. Don't lie. I can hear you breathing. All right. Every other day, uh, injections of test, sip, IM, or subq. What's the goal? Getting jacked. Duh. Right. So, it's not TRT or anything. is he he is cycic. I'm I'm guessing not a fan of subq. If you're doing cycle level dosing, if you're doing TRT, no issue with it whatsoever. I just think the volume's too great. Yeah. If you're doing cycle, I'm with you. I I don't mind every other day. Um I think people get a little bit focused. I used to inject every day, but I injected every day because of the sheer amount of drug I was taking, not for any other reason at all. Uh if I was doing a medium to moderate cycle, I would probably stick to twice, three at a push. Yeah. Uh but it's personal choice. I don't think there's a great deal in it. You you those that are sensitive to sides will find sides lesser on more frequent injecting. Um but if you're not sensitive to size, I don't think you'll find any benefit from a growth factor point of view. I think it's only going to be from a managing of size impact that you you get some benefits. Yeah. If you're doing two to four, I think he means IU, nolva rapid, um or I think he means humalogue, uh how many weeks should you run it? And uh how many weeks off? So this is in relation to our topic from last week about basically intro to insulin use. I will revert back to my normal stance on tool for the job. Okay. So I would use it for the period of time that I was trying to achieve a certain job with it. U so generally for most people I'd say offseason though I do know people that have had great success dieting with insulin but I would say offseason. Uh and when it's getting to a point where the food push is starting to become difficult. So you don't feel like you need to say have like a clean out period in order to stay insulin sensitive? Well, I think that would Well, see, that's the thing. If you're using insulin as a complimentary dose to support your natural production, then you're not going to overpower your insulin response. Yeah. It's only when you start to push it higher that you'll start to get issues or or potential issues in that point. But if you're only using it for the points in your offseason where you're really pushing the calories, then you're naturally going to have a period of recovery in when you tidy up and go into a dieting phase. It doesn't have to be a full-blown choke prep. Yeah. But we generally will push push size, push calories, push weight, and then a little bit of holding. Then we'll tidy up a little bit just to move off because you're never going to get some fluff. And then we'd probably go and push again. So that gives you a natural cycle with the insulin as well. Yeah. All right. Um, so do you think SLU is worth the money, Scott? For me, I absolutely do. Um, I would say that and you know to part of that is where you're getting it from. Um, parabolic where I'm getting it from and you guys can too if you're affiliate of the show, all that. Not going to talk about that on YouTube. Um, I've seen some places that charge a lot, like way, way more. I would not get it from them. That said, if you're getting it for a reasonable price, then absolutely. But here's the thing. Find out for yourself, you know, is it going to be beneficial for you? I've seen this, Dave. I've seen some people that have a great response to it. they're noticing greatly increased energy that they're getting enhanced uh endurance in the gym. Um mental clarity. And then I'm also seeing guys that say, "Yeah, I feel some, you know, additional um you know, endurance. Yeah, I like it." And then I'm hearing a couple two guys so far that have said like, I literally have gotten nothing at all from it. And I think a lot of that has to do with where's your mitochondrial health at right now, you know, and you know, how do you know where your mitochondrial health is? I mean there there there are things medications can mess up your mitochondrial health. Um you know sleep and stress can affect that. Uh your history you know uh there's a lot of things. Sickness that stuff can all affect you. In my personal circumstance it was and is an absolute gamecher. If you can get 50% of what I've gotten from it. I I think that it would be beneficial. Only way to know though is to try it. I just wouldn't go at some of the prices I've seen. I guess talk to me somewhere else off of YouTube if you would like to find out more about that or listen to the audio. The audio has advertising. Um, hey Scott Scrum also has opened in Australia and New Zealand now. That's right. Scott, could you ask Dave what headphones he used in his old training videos? They're silver and with an A and C logo on the side. Thanks. They are and I can't remember. Huh? Uh, ANC headphones. I mean, this is probably a heavy-hitting question that everybody wants to know, but yeah, they um they weren't particularly expensive, but if I remember rightly, the brand was decent, but I had the real bottom end. Master Dynamic. No, that's the only pair of silver ones that came up. So that's why I asked. No. Uh they were like a almost like a wired frame. Oh, okay. Something unique. All right. Uh I will quietly search in the background. All right. In that case, I'll go to the next one. Um simple question. How do you guys feel about insulin and retatride together? I mean, I think there could be benefits to that. I think there's a lot of people that are combining them. Uh I I guess the key would be is they're kind of doing two different jobs really. I mean, they overlap I guess, but uh I would definitely here would be my thought. I would get my reatride dosing down first. Then I would if if you are say using it in an offseason or I mean I guess you could be using it in a diet phase too look around look at your blood sugar around your highest carb meals maybe pre-post and see what your blood sugar looks like there and if you're getting like a good amount of carbs in uh around those meals especially then I could definitely see a a low dose. I don't think that that would be a bad move at all. Dave is still looking for the headphones. I am, but I am listening. Um, that was a question for you, not for me anyway. Okay. Hi, Scott. I'm currently doing 600 test a thousand IU of HCG. I take 1 milligram of arimidex every other day and I tend to aromatize quite heavily. My estrad doll uh levels usually sit around 200 pole um per liter uh to stay What's that? A squad. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, to stay on the safe side, would you recommend adding 10 to 20 milligrams of Novadex to help prevent any gyno development? Uh, if so, how often should I take it? I'd really appreciate your thoughts on using Novadex along with Ardex during a cycle. I like putting Novadex in for the first five, six weeks to establish where estrogen is going to sit. 20 milligrams every day. Okay. Uh just because out of all the eastern sides the one that you're not getting rid of is gyn well not getting rid of easy is gyno. I wonder Dave I feel like so we've talked before about uh glucaronidation the process of breaking estrogen down eliminating it from your body. My first place is I would look at your liver health and see if there's anything you could do to beef up on that. it it basically improve how your body eliminates estrogen. Um, you know, good gut health is a big part of that. Uh, and you could even look into liver health supplementation. You could look into calcium to glucarate which will help with that process. Maybe not need as much because if you can clear estrogen a little bit faster, then it's not going to build up as high. And then from there, Dave, I wonder he could be a good candidate in my opinion for maybe a cycle that isn't like heavily testbased, you know, maybe it's a little bit less test. He could, you know, we kind of almost shun the idea of the test primo, test masked cycles nowadays or test EQ because it's so overplayed, you know, the the whole pre test primo thing. But I mean, realistically, I mean, he might do better with a compound that might help to not build estrogen up as high. Like, what about instead of what did he say? Six six 500. Yeah, 600 test instead of that. What about 400 test 300 EQ? You know, I've always been a fan of of I've never been against lower test base cycles. Okay. uh generally on the on the front of pairing it with higher Deca on an offseason situation. But um yeah, so I don't I don't have an issue with um with Tess being on the low side. I mean at the m I'm I'm not against the Primo Mass. I just think that you know as an offse primo wouldn't be the drug I'd sort of be looking at. Mast I'm a bit more Yeah. Okay. I can see that in the mix. Or how about EQ? Yeah. Yeah, even EQ, but obviously that that can seems to be a bit hit and miss on the estrogen management. So, you'd have to do a little bit of a trial and error on that one. Well, listen. I've got a proposal about this whole headphone thing. You've been looking for several questions now. It's not and I've been listening to the questions. But you're half here. You're half you're half scrolling the internet for a question that doesn't even apply to our show. So, my thought is why don't we tell him we'll look around. Tough question. Tough question. Look around. We'll find the headphones for another day. I've got rid of it. I've got rid of it. I was still listening. I know you were listening cuz I answered correctly. You did. Not when I not when I usually listen and answer incorrectly. We'll give you that. You did answer correctly. Right then. So, you numbered Okay. Uh, okay. Daft question. He must be British if he used the word daft. Victoria actually asked me the other day, "How would you define the word daft?" How would you define the word daft, Dave? Silly, stupid, but not in an insulting way. More in a lighthearted jovial way. Okay, so the band dafted punk. What does that mean? So that would mean uh a light-hearted, slightly ridiculous punk. Okay, fair enough. So, so like you call someone stupid and that can be quite insulting and quite aggressive. Yeah. You call someone dafted and it's more of like you're daffod would be more like you've made a mistake. Not that you yourself are an idiot. You've just made an idiotic mistake. Okay. Yeah. All right. Appreciate that. I'll pass that on. Um, hey guys. Daft question. Uh, maybe. Um, I'm lifting heavy as I always do, but all of a sudden I'm starting to nearly pass out, especially on dumbbell pressed. Uh, I lift them on my chest in my chest. I lift them of my chest nearly pass out now with 57.2 kg dumbbells. Uh, last thing I want is a face shaped like a dumbbell. I'm on 600 test 200 trend 200 mast and that's trend e masty and 400 EQ check my blood pressure at the moment it's sitting at 135 over 85 any thoughts would smelling salts help how about sealis right so first thing is Scott lives with a dumbbell-shaped face and does very well so it is recoverable from you don't need to be that concerned about it the first thing I'd ask and it might sound stupid. Are you holding your breath? Because yeah, I've seen a lot of people go lightheaded and stuff on heavy work because they're just not breathing. They forget. Yeah. Because you're focusing on lifting the weight. So, if you're throwing dumbbells up to your chest and you're holding your breath to do it, it is just could be as simple as that. Um, pressure on the chest, especially with hold held breath as well. if the dumbbells are sitting on your chest could could be a contributing factor. I I I don't think it's particularly gear related to be honest. Um but I have seen it occur in somebody when they were using growth really and I don't know why but we took the well I say it was the growth we we we we explored every avenue we could and couldn't get anywhere and the last thing we did was just on a well [\h__\h] it we'll try it because we've tried everything. Yeah. We took growth out and it was fine after that. blood pressure or blood sugar. I think it Well, I actually think it was a blood pressure situation where the growth was just putting a little bit of water into him and and and BP was spiking. Yeah. For a very short period, uh but BP the rest of the time seemed fine. Yeah. Uh so, but yeah, I I' I'd first thing is, you know, just be conscious of your breathing through the lift because that might actually be contributing to it or maybe the whole cause. Yeah, there is such a thing as a vascal response from the vascal nerve in the neck that Yeah, I always call it vascal. I don't know why, but anyway, I know what you meant. Yeah, so that thing that I've probably pronounced incorrectly as I usually do. Uh, and Scott's corrected me as he usually does. Um, it's true though. I get loads of [\h__\h] wrong and you usually get it right. Well, I learned that from Victoria about the veagal nerve. And when we were at Swiss, there was this device that actually would like activate it and instantly relax you. It was pretty weird. It was interesting. But it can also cause like headedness and passing out and stuff like that. Yeah. Um, usually with with with sort of passing out stuff, it's a drop in blood pressure, not an increase in blood pressure. Yeah. Yeah. Also, I've heard it pronounced the vaginal nerve accidentally when somebody didn't know how to pronounce it. Yeah. For some reason, I always thought it was I don't know why. Vegas. No. So, I was told by a doctor. Yeah. Um the reason being there was a time where if I was crouched down and I stood up Yeah. I was getting dizzy spells and passing out. Not completely passing out, but just going, you know, woozy. Yeah. Yeah. And and and he described it to me as the vasal move. So that's why I've always called it that. But I wonder I mean what's a sematicrit like? Yeah. Possible. You know, I've gotten kind of, you know, that that like blood pressure in the head feeling. I go to tie my shoes and then I stand up and I'm like, whoa. You know, possible. I don't know. I mean, I I you know, we didn't used to check our hematocrit. The other thing is actually if he's if he's talking about going lightheaded or going dizzy when he's pulling the dumbbells off the floor. So what I'm imagining is he's sat on the bench leaning right forward, grabbing the dumbbells and doing a big swing up. Yeah. Is it the movement that's the issue? Yeah. As he tried replicating that without the movement, you know, without the dumbbells and seeing if it's the movement that's the issue. Well, the sometimes it's the weight of the like if he's hitting lifting heavy dumbbells and then sitting down. Yeah. Bringing them up to the chest. That's a lot, you know. So, there could be a few factors going on here. Yeah. All right. Let me see what else we got here. Uh because I know we did have more. There was our T3 question. Oh, guy snapped his Achilles tendon. Oo. Ow. That's a long heel as well. He said he's in a great deal of pain. He's in some sort of boot to stretch it right now. I asked him a little further. Um, he said, "Would BPC-157 help with the healing process?" Yes. Okay. And growth and and collagen and vitamin C. Um, there's that threeyear gym. Yeah. There is a there is a a caveat. It you do have to be careful and be very strict with your rehab. Otherwise, it will repair. Not short, but tight. And then you'll have major which is why they've put it in the boot to try and get it to to not because it what can happen is it can repair shortened and and then you end up with flexibility issues. Yeah. Hey, another follow-up question. Um on uh insulin, I was told that if you eat more than 400 grams of carbs a day, it is a good idea to use insulin to give your body a break. Depends on the individual. Uh but yeah, uh for for the average person potentially, I would have said so. Yeah, I could see that. Yeah, I I would check my blood pressure or blood sugar, too. You know, let's see what is your blood sugar getting to and and then not only that, but where is it at when you're going into your next meal? You know, are you still at like 130? You didn't clear that blood sugar and now you're going to throw more carbs on top of that, or did you clear that blood sugar? Mhm. All right. Um, oh, we got some questions in here on the live stream. Um, what do you feel is the minimum dose of Deca uh to use primarily for joint health, reducing elbow pain if you're not worried about the anabolic benefits? Well, Alen, if you're not worried about the anabolic benefits, I don't know if we want you watching this show, bro. Yeah, that's one weirdo. Just joking. Um, kidding, bud. I believe if memory serves me right in this fuzzy fat head of mine. Um the it's getting fuzzier by the day. Um honestly this morning I was terrible. Um could remember I couldn't remember names for things and all sorts. I wonder how you would do SLU and it is kidney protective. Go away. It's good for kidney. Pushing your drugs on me. Uh and I I know where you can get it from as well. Use code think. Yeah. So, yeah, just send me this text. Um, be sure to use the code, Dave. I believe I recall some research around 50 milligram a week was showing to be beneficial. Okay. So, I'm going to go with that because that's what my brain's telling me. Ah, I'm going to go a little higher just because like my bro logic tells me. I mean, more is better. Yeah, more is better. Number one, um, what's is he on test? I assume he's taking testosterone, you know, and if so, I bet you can handle more than that. Maybe a 100 or 200. That'd be just my my bro logic tells me. What if he doesn't need that minimum effective dose, Scott? What do you mean need? What do you mean need? I don't know. I want to make sure I get it all. Get it all. Also too, I wonder what the deal is with the elbow because if you're doing something that's like a repetitive use injury and then you take that deca and you feel better, I guarantee you this, when you stop taking that deca and you keep doing what you were doing, you're going to keep getting what you got. You know, identifying cause is a big factor of it. If if you know it's come from a certain incident or a certain period of time that is now no longer relevant, then fine. But if it's just an ongoing problem, then you're gonna have to really start looking at, you know, what am I doing that's am I doing anything to aggravate this? Am I doing something that's causing this? Is it my training? Is it my rep style? Is it weights? What is it? Yeah. Because it it like you say, if you're, you know, you can stop the bleeding, but if you keep stabbing yourself, it's going to start bleeding again. Yeah. Um, oh, he might be asking the wrong person as far as I'm concerned, but he says, uh, um, would most of those being the things in your box be good to use still, or is there an expiration date, which is advised? Most definitely an expiration date on some of those things. No expiration date on gear. It's always good. Always. Yeah, you you that man there is the master for using [\h__\h] he found in a drawer that was like 10 year old. So, I had a box much like your box, although it didn't have foam between the pieces. It was more like just a shoe box full of random stuff left over from old cycles. And after a series of 10 years, I ended up with a lot of little extras, you know, laying around. Have you used them all now? There the box has gotten pretty dwindled down. Yeah. Yeah, it has. I have like a bottle and half a trend. I think that's it. That's all that's left. No, you can throw that in the bin. Yeah, pretty much. Um, I was going to ask you one other thing and I can't remember what it was. Huh. But I will say this, guys. If you want to take part in the next show, we'd love to have you. Leave us questions. And if you're not subscribed, we'd love to have you along for all the shows that we do. We've got several shows that come out each week. And if you are subscribed and you haven't hit the bell, that's the only way that YouTube is going to let you know when the next show is out. Otherwise, you subscribe, you go to on to the next thing, you watch Vigor with Steve and you'll never see us again. So, there is that. Yeah. What's Steve done wrong? Why did he mention bring him down by mentioning on this show? Yeah, that's true. He does a lot of good stuff and he's more popular than us, you know? He's got a lot more followers. So, why why? Because we're not on that show. Yeah, but we're nicer. I don't know. Steve's really nice. He's a nice guy. Hey, but well I'm nicer. You're the dude. His wife must have had a baby by now. She was like two weeks due last time I thought about Victoria and I were just talking. She was two weeks due and that had to be like three weeks ago. Is Steve a dad? He might be. Let's Let's find out. I'm going to I know this is Steve run. He wanted to be a dad. He kept Oh, you don't know what's coming, mate. Run. He kept getting more and more cats because he wanted a baby. Let's see here. Oh, that's bad. Oh, there he is. Vigorous. Crazy catman. Let's see here. Let's see here. I see nothing. I see nothing. Wait, he's got stories. Yeah, his personal life. He might not be putting that online, mate. Yeah, that might be it. Everything's gear related here. Uh, but he does talk about that though cuz he did like fertility program stuff like that. But yeah, when I go to his page, it's just like a hundred different videos of him that have nothing to do, you know, with the cats, which disappoints me greatly. Or the baby. I I put very little of personal life on social media. Yeah, I can understand that. But you did put that Ferrari up there the other week, and that was pretty cool. Yeah. And I ah you did you not see the post from the weekend, sir? No. What did you do? I went to race the beach. What's that? Sorry. Race Race the Waves. What? Call it the right name. What's that? So, Race the Waves is an event in the coastal town of Bridlington in the northern part of England. Not renowned for having particularly great coastal towns, I must admit. Okay. Um, and it's a throwback from the early 1900s when they used to race cars on the beach front. Okay. Uh, it's called Race the Waves and it's open to classic uh motorbikes and cars and American and customer, just anything that's oddball. Um, and I've been meaning to go for years. Never actually got round to going. Always happened to be one thing or another. It was Father's Day and we'd done what we needed to do and my good lady said, "Let's go." So, we went and I really enjoyed it. Does she like going to that kind of stuff, too? Yes and no. What do you mean? Lots of good stuff, but sometimes you go to this stuff and it's crap in it. Whereas I I I will put up with crap stuff if there's cars involved. She would rather it be decent. The cars aren't enough to compensate. I see. Yeah. Yeah. But you just went to watch, right? You weren't racing. Yeah. Yeah. We just No. No. I'm thinking of racing next year. Okay. If you get your truck back by then or your car back. No. No. Don't you start with your truck not being back. Enough with there. Behave Scott. It's supposed to be tomorrow. Behave. Okay. Really? Is it? You're getting the car back tomorrow? Supposed to get me the truck back tomorrow. The truck back tomorrow. Okay. All right. It's going to be all done. No, it still need a wrap. But the the nolva's got the new carb on and he's up and running. Wait, you're going to get the truck wrapped? What do you What is it going to have on it? Military green. Oh, really? Just like like an olive kind of like an olive matte green. Yeah. Why do Oh, matte. Why you going to do that? That's like it. Okay. No other reason. Okay. Huh. I've always wanted to do the car wrap thing. I wish I would have done it with my mini when it was brand new cuz it would have protected the paint, right? Yeah, it would have looked nice pink as well. All right, Dave, we need some Uncle Dave's wisdom for the day. I knew you were going to go there. Listen, you have a you have a great position in life that people actually want to hear what you have to say. Why though? I don't know. I don't ask those kinds of questions. I just give the people what they want, you know? I actually want to do Do people actually genuinely enjoy this section? They actually respond to it. Yeah, they do. Yeah. Yeah. People are like, I mean, I don't know. You guys tell me. Do you still like Uncle Dave's wisdom? I haven't heard from you in a couple weeks about it. Just ask us all the gear questions and that's it. Although, we do appreciate that because it helps us keep doing the show. But yeah. So, I I was I did actually I was toying with with Have we done dealing with problems? I don't know. Is there a tractor in your yard? Is that what it is? Yeah. Okay, we'll live with it. That's genuinely what it is. It sounded like a tractor. It's a tractor. Have we Have we talked about what? Dealing with problems. Like every time it's No, no. I meant like dealing with trauma trauma events, stuff like that. Oh. Uh I don't know. Break break breakups, divorces. Oh, no. Maybe we haven't. So Mrs. divorcing you? No. No. She She'd probably kill me before she did that to be quiet. So, we allowed to say Well, we're going to be demonetized anyway, aren't we? Who cares? Yeah. She would rather un alive me before divorce me. Okay. Um, melt me with acid or something along those lines. I mean, that's a good way to get away, you know, get rid of the bones. She's sat behind me going, "Yeah." Um, I don't know what she's Look at the picture. I have to look at a picture. She sent me a picture. Um anyway, beside that. Um so very difficult when life throws you a curveball to deal with the emotional impact of that, you know, and very often we're too emotionally impacted to actually deal or focus with whatever the problem is. Yeah. Uh very often we will withdraw, go into ourselves, isolate ourselves because we're upset. Yeah. Um probably just about the worst thing you can do. Um and and we do stuff like we'll take time off work or we take time away from the gym or we take time away from our regular schedules. Again, probably in my opinion it just about the worst thing you can do. To me, the best thing you can do is maintain normality as much as possible. Yeah. Because at that point, you you're not emotionally in a position where you can deal with whatever the trauma is. So, why give yourself more time to not deal with it? Yeah. So, why overpower yourself with the trauma by just reflecting on it? What you're much better doing is keeping yourself busy, keeping yourself occupied, keeping yourself distracted. Now, there is a there is a balance here. Compartmentalized. Don't think about it ever again. you that denial is not Yeah, exactly. That's that's the danger. So, but the thing is is is to not ignore it, is to not hide from it, but just don't focus on it. Get on with life. Yeah. Keep yourself busy and every day you'll get a little bit stronger and a little bit better and then you can start to process it and you process it bit by bit. But you need to lose the emotional response. Yeah. You can't process trauma if you're dealing with the emotional response because the emotional response won't let you process it and won't give you a a an objective view. It's going to be an emotional view and you need to look at the problem objectively. Doing something towards if it's a problem that can be rectified, then doing something towards the problem will always be a positive move. It might not be the solution, but it could be a step towards the solution. You know, if if you're you're deeply stressed and worried about money, then create a budget. Yeah. Getting a second job, trying to do some overtime are all things that are going to make you put it feel in a better position because you're actively working towards a solution. But if it's an emotional event like a breakup, a loss, crack on with life, deal with that, and then slowly start to work to deal with the actual acceptance of the situation. Once that initial flood of emotion has passed. Yeah, I could see that. And don't torch yourself with it. Don't don't if you're gonna have a remembrance, say you've lost a loved one. If you're going to have a remembrance for that person, don't sit there with a bottle of whiskey being depressed and sad because you've lost them. Have a remembrance for the positivity of whatever that individual brought to your life. Have a remembrance for the good times. Enjoy the memories of what was positive about that person. Don't sully that memory by just sitting there in self-pity and woe is me for the loss of that person. Because you know if you truly are celebrating the person, you're going to celebrate what they brought to your life for the positivity that they brought, not what you've lost. Yeah. Hey, this guy uh was really upset at us. I don't know. He probably turned us off. I'm guessing he took us serious. He took me serious. He said, the guy who asked uh um would it still be good to use gear that was expired? And and whatever we said, his response was, I'm actually here to learn. It was just a question. I'm not sure what people do, but this is why Steve likely has more subscribers. He doesn't insult those who ask questions to learn. We apologize knowing so but you you obviously haven't been on this show very long. We're messing with you, man. We're just joking around. Yeah, we're we're not that Look there I I'm not going to say there aren't stupid questions cuz there are. But yes, we do all need to learn. But don't take it so seriously. Chill out cuz we don't take it that seriously. That's why I'm taking a piss out of him because you got a face like a dumbbell and you use expired gear. Yeah, he doesn't he probably doesn't know that all the gear that I had been using over the last year was expired and that's why you're messing with me. But if you can't take a joke, man, that's cool. Go watch Steve. We'll be okay. That said, if you do want to accept our apology attitude, that said, if you want to accept our apology, great. If you don't, we don't want you here anyway. No, I mean, we we do we never mean to offend. Well, sometimes I do, but very rarely do I mean to I mean to offend him. No, absolutely. Uh, but it's just tongue and cheek. Don't take us so seriously. It isn't about that. But no, I personally would avoid expired gear. Well, I'd expired. I'd avoid that stuff. It's expired by 10 years. That's still good. It's fine. It's fine. Just hold it up to a light. Hold it up to a light and look through the He's too He's too cheap and tight to get rid of it. No, I So, he'll use it. The deal the deal is I don't want to like order more stuff and then you know what I'm saying there's like the whole here in the US there's a whole thing to order it legalities all that I'm like I got it if you know but yeah there's a limit to it for sure I don't know if I would definitely you know if it was an open vial I wouldn't want to reuse that like if I had a half a vial of trend from a prep I did in that's good to go you know what I'm saying like we'll toss that you know what I know what that tractor's [\h__\h] it. Well, once again, we apologize to him and uh we apologize to all of you for having to sit through another hour of our program. Uh and I just glad you don't have smellvision. They talked about that being a thing at one point. Do you remember that, mate? That that was strong. That's Hey, that must be liquid liquid slurry he's spreading. One more thing. Excuse me. Um, we did have a listener who said, um, "Put on sunblock, Dave. My dad got cancer from sitting under a, uh, under a skylight." He's talking to you. We do have blinds on a lucky. Uh, yeah. Yeah. But I didn't think the UVs pass through. Yeah. I don't know. But that's what he said. That's why you don't get that's why you don't get a suntan when you're behind glass. Yeah. I don't know. That's what he said though. So, I just forgot to pass the message on. He was cared about you. You know what I'm saying? No, I appreciate the concern. But they are blinded actually. I don't get a lot of directs and like I feel bad that we hurt that guy's feelings. I really didn't mean to do that. Yeah. It's a It's one thing if you understood what I said and your feelings were hurt. It's another thing if you misunderstood us joking and you took it. You know what I'm saying? like we didn't mean to. So, no, it's and and don't feel special. We do it to everybody. Um, no. And I don't mean that in a true, too. It's just we just we we we take the piss out of each other. We take the piss out of ourselves. Each this is part of what this show is. I think we had a little bit too much fun today, Dave. We have to not have as much fun moving forward. Okay, fair enough. No, but yeah, we never want to hurt somebody's feelings. So, I we do apologize and I'll let it go at that. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Uh Dave, are you taking new clients right now? Yeah, I Oh, will you insult them like you insult our listeners? Yes, I am taking new clients. Guys, we appreciate everything. He's pouring out my bloody windows. Jesus Christ. Reach out to Dave over on social media. Hit me up mcnal diet@gmail.com supplementsource.ca for Canadians. True nutrition.com. Use our code think for savings in the US. Um, strongports nutrition. Go to strongports. Check out their uh US site. Check out their UK site. And apparently check out their Australian and New Zealand site. And thank you everybody from Patreon. You guys left us some great questions today. Honda Island and Holland, I believe. Holland, too. Yeah. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Okay. Well, for another episode of Dr. Sit, we'll see you soon.