the costs from a point of view of potential negatives outweigh the benefits when there's other drugs that you could use as alternatives. Um, also you've got estrogen from test, you've got estrogen from deca, okay, at a lower rate, and then you've got trend increasing estrogen sensitivity and both tren and deca increasing prolactin uh, and lowering dopamine and affecting GABA and affecting 5HTP. So, you've got a real mix of compounds thereing with your mood chemicals that isn't always the easiest to tolerate, but that will depend down to the individual themselves and how well grounded they are within themselves. But, but I would stick to one. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott Mcnal and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We're brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave. Guys, if you'll notice, Dave yawns while I do the intro. Literally, every episode I've been watching it when I edit. Every episode, we talk for five minutes. We do the intro and while I'm doing the intro, he yawns every freaking time. I got I got soap. Bloodanalysis.com. Guys, you can get your lab work done by Dave if you're in the UK. We are brought to you by stumsports.com. That'sportsnutrition. And we just heard that they're opening up uh a a a training center is what it is, Dave. Uh one of our listeners, Matt, said uh it's going to be opened right across the the street from the shop where he works. So, they're going to have a gym that they're putting in there. If you're in the UK, you guys should go check that out. I don't care where you live in England, it's no more than a few hours away from where you live. So, go check it out. It's not like the US where you have to drive 5 days straight to get to the other side of the country. Um, and we are brought to you, of course, by true nutrition.com. Use our code thinkover there and supplement uh supplements.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Dave, what's going on, man? Am I right? Uh, not much. Uh, am I right though? Like, if you live in England, it's only going to take you like at the most four hours to get to the other side of the country. Top to bottom? No. Side to side? Yes. Okay. Okay. But in general, like if you wanted to go to London right now, how long would it take you? Uh, if it wasn't for traffic, I'd probably do it in about three and a half, four hours. Okay. Okay. And if you wanted to go to Liverpool right now, how long would that take you? From me, just over an hour. Scotland, Scottish border, 3 hours. Glass Edinburgh, four hours, maybe a little bit more. I've got to go to Abedine in um a week and a half. What's there? That's that's about eight hours. I'm doing a seminar. There's uh so it's a Granite Bodybuilding show. Oh. And I did did a seminar there last year and they've asked us to go back and do another one this year. Nice. Guys, for those of you who aren't aware, maybe you're tuning in to the show for the first time, Dave's an expert witness for the UK court system, testifying in uh You're not not anymore. You quit? No, not you know, I haven't done any defense work for absolutely ages. It's been a little while. You told me about a case not too long ago that you were reviewing. Dave does an expert witness related to anabolic steroids. He's done education for the UK police and military and uh he's hanging here with us today. If you don't know, Dave was like 400 lb at one time. And a lot of it was muscle like it he was a good 340 350 lean but he might have been 400 plus pounds at one time. And uh because sometimes we get people asking like who are you guys? And my name's Scott. I'm a coach. I've been doing it for literally 15 years now. We're here to just share our experience, our education with you. Uh, and we take your listener questions, most of them related to peeds, but we're also a stuff podcast, drugs and stuff. We'll answer your stuff questions, too. We generally have some good stuff questions. Uh, but to talk about gear related stuff, you looked something up this morning, which I find kind of comical. What were they the most Googled? The stupidest. Yeah. The stupidest Google questions about steroids. Okay. Is that what they were titled though or they just like the most common? No, they were they were titled the stupidest questions asked about steroids. Okay. So, what did people Google? Let's hear a few of these. Can steroids make my penis bigger naturally? Well, I suppose Halo to a small extent. Yeah. Um um if I take steroids once, will I instantly become a bodybuilder? Yes, overnight. Definitely. Yeah, without doubt. You just inject and wake up the morning and look like Listen, I'm not going to lie, Dave. When I took my first cycle, which was 15 milligrams of dbol, I gained an incredible amount of weight on this. And I was like, and this is next to nothing. So, if I were to just do this a few more times, I'm going to look like Arnold. I really I really thought that, man. You know, and there are a lot of non-users that think that too. They're like, "Oh, I could look like that, too, if I took the same stuff you did." You know? Yeah. Can I drink anabolic steroids like a protein shake? Kind of. Some of them like you could. Water based. I've done water-based Winnie before orally. So, yeah. I mean, orals you just if you put the pills in there, whatever. You technically could drink a Winstrol shake, I suppose. Can I rub steroids on my muscles and get jacked? H I I can picture somebody asking that actually, you know, like can I, you know, if I were to like do this, do I have abs then the next day? Hey, you wake up, you got abs. Do your biceps tomorrow? Will steroids make me taller? No. No. If anything, they will close your growth plates sooner if you were still growing, right? there. So my I yeah I mean this has been steroid stunting growth and and scal development has been something that's been touted as a side effect but my understanding is that though elevated testosterone levels do palm part of the signaling for bone closure. Mhm. It's not the only thing. There's several other things that need to be in line as well. Yeah. So how impacting anabolic use is around preventing fe skeal growth is is seems to be a bit unknown and to be fair I mean I suppose we could all go get a load of 14y olds and fill them full of gear and see if they stop growing. We don't say that on YouTube don't we? Oh sorry sorry YouTube. Um okay we we we wouldn't do that. That would be terrible and very easy. We wouldn't. But you know, there are people out there who say have a lot of money, their kid plays basketball, and they are doing growth hormone treatments to get them taller. They aren't necessarily, you know, like short in stature to begin with, but they're saying, "Hey, let's get my child an advantage here because they, you know, or they just want their kids to be taller." That is a legit thing that's happening using growth hormone. That's not an anabolic steroid though, sir. Yeah. Exactly. Um, can I take steroids and not work out but still get ripped? Oh, we should point out too example shredded me. Hey, we should point out too, Dave, that it uh that only works the growth hormone thing if your growth plates have not closed, right? Like once they've closed, you're not going to use growth and grow uh, you know, to six. I I I believe it can be quite painful as well if you administer growth hormone in a developmental stage. Yeah, I imagine man the thing of growing pains becomes very real. Yeah. Um do steroids make me aggressive like the Hulk? Some people do you get aggressive when you drink? Cuz if you do, you're probably going to get aggressive if you take Trenton, too. You know what I'm saying? Do you already have uh a domestic on your record? If so, you may more likely, you know, get aggressive when you take gear if you haven't worked on that. Can steroids make my voice sound cooler? Way cooler. Way cooler. Okay. Well, steroids change my voice. I mean, if you're a girl, it could definitely have an effect. Men, we don't really get even guys that have higher voices. It's not a thing, is it? Like guys don't really have vocal a little bit. a little bit, but not but yeah, you know, my name's Sarah. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, and it's a thing, man. It happens. And usually what I've heard and what I've seen is it's not that you necessarily get the deepening as much as like you wake up and your your voice feels horse, you know, for for women. And sometimes it's with compounds you wouldn't expect. Winstril is kind of considered to be one of the the safer steroids, but it's notorious for uh creating thickening of the vocal cords for women. Can I buy steroids at Walmart or GNC? Yes, they're in between creatine and whey protein. That creatine, you got to look out for it, man. Hey, technically, if you have a script, you can get some test from Walmart and maybe some other stuff, too. That's not true, actually. Yes, you can. Yeah. Yeah. insulin as well. insulin as well. In fact, you you could buy insulin off the shelf at Walmart, couldn't you? Yes, you can. Yeah. Novalin R. Yeah. Regular insulin. You can't get like Fiasper or anything like that. Atlantis. If I take steroids, will I still need to go to the gym? You'll Here's the deal. If you take steroids, you're going to and you enjoy working out already, you're going to like working out even better. That's really what it comes down to. You know what I mean? Can I snort steroids for faster effects? Well, technically you could snort a a crystal oral. I wouldn't recommend snorting test. That might be quite messy. Hey, have you ever heard of anybody who's done this? Because I I know somebody who was told to do this. No, I haven't. You genuinely know somebody that did this. I I know a guy who was at my local gym and his coach told him that's how he wanted him to take his halo. He was like, "You'll get a better effect from it. More of it will reach your bloodstream and blah blah blah." Listen, if you start and he was just like basically taking I think they I don't think they had the powder like RAWs. I think they had pills. That's not going to be good on your nasal passages. You know what I'm saying? That's not going to be ideal. You're going to get plenty of halo just taking it orally. Anabolic bogeies. Yeah. Yeah. Don't do that, kids. Don't do that at home. Will steroids make my sperm super powerful? Now, surprisingly, all my kids have been conceived when I've been on full-blown cycles. So, I'm going to say yes, he will. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. We know though that the opposite is generally thought to be true, right? Like we usually see a drop in sperm count, but the one maybe it's that they just kill off the weak ones. You know what I mean? And the strong ones get even stronger. They're kind of like teenage mutant ninja sperm. You know what I mean? They're like the super you get some trend in there, man. Any sperm that's going to survive is going to be a pretty damn good sperm. You know what I'm saying? I No, I I disagree. Looking at my kids, I think it severely damaged the mental attitude of that sperm. Hopefully they don't listen to the show. I think none of them are in the office right now. Very much handicapped after the the introduction to anabolics. By the way, if anyone wants a child, I've got two. You can have them free. I'll even throw in a dog a a case of dog food or something with them. All right, let's hear a couple more of these and then we'll get on to our questions. Um, okay. I'm trying to find one that's a good one cuz some of these are a bit Right. Okay. If I take steroids and flex really hard, will my veins pop out permanently? Oh, Dave. So, you we do get asked about vascularity. You know that, right? Like that's a question that comes up. It's kind of genetic, you know, vascularity. Some people get more vascular than others. Like Jay Cutler never had a super vascular physique. It just wasn't part of his look. But you take another guy, man, and some people they like I tended to get super vascular. It never was the size of Jay, but I had if vascularity was judged, man, I beat him in that in that stance at least. You know, I I only know of one compound that has a direct impact on the visual look of vascularity, and that's amp five. Oh, okay. Amp five. Are you talking about like um the veterary vascular? H Yeah. You have you have to [\h__\h] loads of carbs. Veterary drug. Yeah. Is it uh Oh, I It's on the tip of my tongue. Somebody else is probably thinking of the name of it. Amp five. I know what you're talking about, though. Uh and not an acetylcyine. Um yeah, I know what you're talking about. Somebody at home, somebody in the chat, go ahead and and write the name of the compound in. People would use it before a contest. They take like one shot of it. Um, and it requires a shitload of carbs, does it? Really? Yeah. So, is and uh, you know, I'm like for saying words. It's and denosine monofhosphate. Thank you. Thank you. It's nucalide that plays a role in energy metabolism. I've known people who will take it before a show. Skip has had experience with that and it doesn't make you feel good. Like you take it and it you go down and uh you got to really you got to be careful with that stuff but then after you come back you're vascular. So I I don't have any experience personally. I've not used it personally. I've seen I know of somebody used it and Jesus Christ even their top of their head was vascular. Yeah. Oh it was it was to the point where it was abnormal. You know what I mean? They looked alien. They were It was that bad. When I real quick, when I'd get in good shape, I had a ton of vascularity. But I will say this that as we train, we improve the blood flow to the muscle and we do create new, you know, our vascular system also grows too. And that's going to stay with you for the rest of your, you know, for the rest of your life. You will have more vascularity than somebody who didn't train. So, it is something that will improve over time if you were to somebody who wanted more veins, you know, and at the end of the day, that tissue's got to have a blood supply. So, the network has to improve to to supply. It's as simple as that. Exactly. Uh, right. Last two. Can my dog take steroids and get jacked, too? People do that too, man. I know. And the last one, can I buy steroids at 7-Eleven? It depends what 7-Eleven and who's working there at the time. Oh god. Wow. You can get Seialis basically from 7-Eleven. They have all of those uh like uh you know intimacy pills, the boner pills by the counter, you know, and they're finding we talked about this a few years ago. There was one that they were like this is getting taken off the shelf because it literally had like Viagra or Seialis in it. Like they they're not even messing around, man. It's not like an herb that has a similar, you know, vasoddilating effect. This is literally like they had drugs. But the idea was they're like, "Well, we'll sell it for a while, then the FDA will give us a warning, and then we'll stop selling it. We'll change the name of the company, you know, and then we'll sell it again." So, someone someone in the chats just put that they don't feel that carbs are needed to work with AMP. Now, I've always found that it works so much better with carbs. Yeah. Yeah. AMP, no carbs needed at all. Uh, yeah. I'm not sure. I can't I can't tell you. I can tell you this that the more carbs you have in your system, if you're peeled up into a point where you spill, those carbs are going to help with vascularity, you know, and and fullness. So, I could imagine that I would want them, but I don't have any personal take on it. So, yes, Matt Morrison, I am. What's Matt Morrison ask you if I'm still doing one to one? Okay. Yeah, of course you are. Right. You're talking about coaching, I'm assuming. So, maybe he just wants sexual favors, which Yeah, the money's right. We We'll discuss. 10 bucks is 10 bucks, guys. It is, mate. Supercharger. It's a lot of lot of 10 bucks to get a supercharger. All right. What do you say we dive into our list of questions, Dave? And by the way, people enjoyed our episode last week. Uh, they really enjoyed having Ryan on and telling his story, man. Dude, that was incredible. You know what I'm saying? Like, I'll tell you. I'll tell you. It's cool to have him on, though. And he seems like a nice guy. Like, he seems like he he's laidback, cool, genuinely like wants to help people and stuff and and I feel like he fit in with us really well, you know. Hey, uh, one thing we did get asked, by the way, kind of a followup. You know, I think Ryan had a really good point about not necessarily wanting to crush crush SHBG. Um, so it kind of got people thinking and I had mentioned myself like my SHBG gets too low, I don't feel good, and basically my my training and excitement is over until it comes back. So the question was raised, how can we increase SHBG? It was kind of echoed a few times through the chat uh last week. So, I figured I'd maybe bring that up to start. So, it's difficult from a point of view of combating the effects of stuff like Proviron or Primo that are particularly effective at lowering SHBG. So, obviously limit the exposure to those types of drugs is one aspect. Elevated estrogen will drive SHBG up. So there there can be something around where you and how you manage your estrogen. I I think it only really starts to get a problem when you start going into single digits particularly, you know, like low-end single digits. Um most people from that I've seen if they're sort of 10 12 volt in that 10 to 20 range, they generally don't seem to do too bad. But when you start seeing it down in the fours and fives, that's when it seems to start to have a negative impact. Yeah. I the the thing is the role of SHBG is to transport the the hormones around the body. I mean it's part of does and drops them off. Now when those hormones are bound within that SHBG, they are still decaying. Their their half-life is still active. They are still lowering. So they're not active in the body. But I I've never understood this obsession with trying to lower SHBG more. You know, people added Revyon in a cycle of anabolics. So I I want to bring I said why? It's going to be low anyway. I mean, you're going to be sub 20 if you're on anabolics pretty much across the board. Yeah. Yeah. Um alcohol can increase it as well, but I'm not suggesting we all go out and get pissed to bring us SHP up, but you know, there are a few factors that play into it. Highest Yeah. Estrogen. And And the way Victoria put it was she was like, "If SHBG were an Uber driver, it would prefer to pick up an androgen. It will more likely pick up an androgen first. But if your estrogen is higher, then it will be more likely to attach to estrogen. And therefore, and I think that's the way she put it, which is a nice little analogy. Keep it real simple. Um, higher estrogen could potentially benefit you, but I imagine, man, you're going to be up craps creek if you're, you know, using a bunch of D. If you're on the like the traditional one to one test to primo nowadays, you know what I'm saying? As long as your primo supply is still good, um, you're going to have a hard time getting that estrogen to make a real big difference and bringing it back up. Yeah. Right. No, I agree. Yeah, it it's it's and a lot of that is around the drug choices you make and how you structure your cycle. I mean, the other thing is that obviously, you know, if SHBG is super low, you're actually restricting the movement of androgens around the body cuz that's what it's just what it job is. It job is to move the [\h__\h] around the body, you know. Yeah. Yeah. We used to be of the mindset that you wanted to keep it as low as possible because that would allow you to have more free test and the free test is what we want. But yeah, I I think that we're we're starting to recognize and as far as Scott Stevenson has gone on that because he's talked about this man probably eight years ago now, he he did a talk on the benefits of SHBG and that it may not be just the like the binder that we once thought it was. So anyway, we got a bunch of questions here. Let's start up with this one because I think it's something everybody has to think about if they're doing their labs on cycle. Uh these days I see people with crappy cholesterol jumping on gear and then they wonder why their uh their heart issues are so bad. Uh would you not advise people to not jump on gear till they fix their cholesterol without statins? What do you think of that statement? The cholesterol argument is an interesting one. Um, there's plenty of people out there have argued that the cholesterol is nowhere near as significant in cardiovascular risk as we're led to believe. And even the heart associations have not ever been able to successfully put up anything that states that cholesterol will lead to greater cardiovascular incidence. There's no stats on that, I believe. Um, having said all that, I do truly believe that my plaque buildup, which resulted in a narrowing and a heart attack, which then resulted in a stent, is because of cholesterol mismanagement on my part. Now, I never had high LDL, but I did have low HDL. Okay. Um, so my actual fat intake in my my days of pushing hard was was actually quite low and and as a result, my LDL was always pretty decent. But what I didn't do was manage my HDL. I didn't think I needed to because my LDL was always good. Yeah. Uh, you know, that applies to come from somewhere. Um, and obviously that's that's where I'm putting it down to. So there is a lot of argument around this. But my approach to this is I would rather manage lipids and be wrong. Mhm. Yeah. Than manage lipids and you know than not manage lipids and be wrong. So at the end of the day, if I manage lipids, I'm not doing any harm. There's not a negative to that. If cholesterol is playing a significant role in cardiovascular health long term, which I think it has has a role, then by managing at least I'm safeguarding against that potentiality. And if I'm wrong about that, then it doesn't matter, does it? I've not caused a problem, but I I definitely would potentially cause a problem if I don't manage my lips. Yeah, I'm with you. I have a client who we just got his labs back in the last day or two and we found that his HDL was going down and we started a cycle I think about 8 weeks ago now. We don't have any DHTs in there. Um but uh yeah, so we're seeing it's going down. We're taking actions to try to combat that. Um does speaking of we mentioned Stum earlier. Do they have any kind of cholesterol support? Cuz I know that that's really popular with the ancillary type supplement companies, you know, to have the product. They they have a product called lipid support which um I believe is citrus bergamont, krill oil, liposomaal vitzy and lysine. So it's got Pauline therapy into in it. Okay. Um but yeah, I now going back to the original question. I was going to I had a little more to say though. Hold on a second. Oh, sorry. I apologize. So, what I was going to say is is that so he's already taking products like that. And at this point, we're we were pushing upward. We're we're working on gaining some size. And uh the next step is that since he's eating mostly a high protein, high carb diet, we're adding some healthy fats in cuz he already has all the supplements in place, you know. So, we're adding in an option to have salmon for one of his meals, you know, and and I feel like eating a fatty fish is going to be way more beneficial than taking like a fish oil cap. I just I've always seen in results that having that fatty fish in there is more like the actual real food. I've just in my gut I feel like that's more beneficial. So, we're we're adding that in as an option. And we're adding in a variety of healthy fats. Two other 15 gram uh sources. And we're using things like olive oil or avocado oil. And avocado oil, I guess, is supposed to be pretty similar to olive oil, but olive oil has like like way more studies, like 15,000 studies versus like 300 on avocado oil. So, they both are supposed to be good, but I would say don't just use one. Um, and then we're adding in nuts as an option too, like almonds and walnuts. But we're also too, I told him, don't use roasted because a lot of times we get the almonds and they're like, you know, roasted almonds and sometimes the fats can be degraded when that happens. So, if you use like raw almond butter is good. Anyway, so we're doing that. We're going to see what happens. And then the goal is going to be that he takes a break period for eight weeks before we start his contest prep uh for the end of the year. My goal is going to be to see what we can do to really try to ramp that HDL back up during his downtime because you've said it before too that I think the benefit is like or or the game plan is try to get it built up while you're off cycle because it's it's and then maintain as best you can on because it's going to be really hard I think for him to rebuild that HDL while he's in the middle of a blast, you know. Yeah. I mean, you're you're always going to be fighting a losing battle to an extent when you're trying to bring HDL up in in a heavy anabolic environment. Um, the fish in meals has a two-pronged thing, though. It's not just the fact that you're getting a healthy source of fats from the fish. It's also the fact that you remove some animal fat from the meat that you replaced it with. Oh, okay. Yeah. So there's a double edge there because you are actually going to lower LDL slightly as well as increase HL at the same time on fish oils. Um krill oil is a much better option to fish oils. Fish oils are triglyceride based and the body doesn't particularly absorb that really well whereas krill oil is phospholippid voice and the absorption rate is much greater. And there's some really interesting studies on how much more effective krill oil is at getting it into the cell and into the body where you want it. Um but yeah, I mean I I just think it makes sense to manage um you know your lipids in a sensible way. Um now I wouldn't say so much where your HDL or where your LDL is. It's more of how those two balance with each other because one puts cholesterol in the bloodstream, one takes cholesterol out. So, it's the fact that they balance is much more crucial than having, you know, if you've got high LDL, but you've got high HDL, that's a better scenario than having normal HDL and high LDL because you you've got at least some offset of that in and out process that's happening with those two carriers. Yeah. Going back to the individual question, if you've got adulterated or un ideal cholesterol levels, generally that's going to be a lifestyle issue. It's going to be either alcohol intake or it's going to be dietary based. So obviously improving those in lie of before going on a cycle is definitely a positive thing to do. There are individuals that have a genetic situation where despite having good diet and such like they're still going to have adulterated lipids. I've tend to find that these people actually seem to manage. It's almost like their body's built to compensate for the fact that their lipids are going to be out of whack. um and they don't appear to be really substantially more at risk than somebody who um is normally okay. It's only when those cholesterol levels are a mess from [\h__\h] diet or or or alcohol being the other big driver for for LDL. Um that that the problems come. But yeah, I I don't buy into this cholesterol isn't important argument. Even though there's there's a lot of people that that go down that route, I I do think it's worthwhile just playing it safe on that front because it's not particularly difficult to do anyway. And you know what I mean? A healthy diet supports healthy cholesterol and the healthy diet supports your growth. So, it's a bit of a no-brainer really. I've heard some reports of SLUPP32 or the Slooh um as having a positive benefit on cholesterol. I'm going to do labs tomorrow morning. So, I'm going to do some fasting labs. Yeah, I'm gonna I'll let you guys know because I know where my cholesterol was before. And my HDL has been good now, man. Like, it was plummeted during the time that I competed for about a decade. It was hard to get it above 25. It would stay there. I'd fight to get it to 30 and then it would come back down to 25. And now I'm like in the 40s. Not a problem. So, you know, it's a lot better than it was. Hey, question from the live stream. one of our Patreon, new Patreon people, DK Technology Solutions. He says, "Uh, how much will Clen help with fat loss?" Depends on how much of a calorie deficit you are. Um, the the easiest way of thinking of cleanse is it makes fat available for use by the body. So, you just then need to create a need for your body to use that fat. Yeah. Key is getting the diet right first. Make sure you're making progress. The better progress you're making, the less clen you need to be able to evoke a good effect from it, you know. Yep. Um, all right. Oh, another SLU thing. Can you take SLU with preworkout drinks? Does it spike your heart rate? So, I personally did notice that my heart rate had been a little bit higher and I even noticed that my blood pressure went up some. I'm not seeing it as much as I did in initially in the first couple of weeks, but I have spoke to other people who have had higher blood pressure while using it. So, I've been suggesting that everybody make sure that they monitor their blood pressure regularly with it. Um, what else do we have here? How about this one? Okay, there was the SHBG thing. Okay. Uh be interesting if Primo starts getting back to going counterfeit using lower concentrations of something like DHB. Um maybe it would be a good idea to switch to master. Uh he's he's talking about the the concept we had last week about uh you know having an issue with Primo Raws out of China right now. I don't know, man. Do you feel like they go back to faking it like they did years ago? cuz now we have more testing available. Um I I guess some people could get away with it. You know, some sources could do it. I I think I think look, let's just look at it reasonably. If you're a lab and let's ballpark figure say that you're shifting 400 units of primo a week, okay? And all of a sudden you can't get and that 400 pre primo units of primo a week represents $4,000 to you per week in profit. Yeah. and that's been fairly mild if it's a manufacturer to retail. Um, are you going to turn that down or are you going to risk putting something else in just to get you through what you think is a temporary slump in supply? you know, and you So, I'm not saying it's right in any way, shape, or form, but you can understand the thought process if we just knock this batch out with let's just send out mass this week to get through thinking the supply is going to be better the week after or the week after that. Yeah. Uh, and no doubt the suppliers are promising delivery, you know, left hand over fist even though it's not coming through. Um, so, you know, it's it's not surprising that labs do this [\h__\h] Should they? No. Should default they should just turn around and say we haven't got it. Uh would you like mast instead? You know that would be a much better approach to it. But yeah, um I mean I'm I'm not I don't have anything against Primo. I just don't understand the [\h__\h] industry's obsession with it currently. It's Yeah, everybody wants Primo now. I know. It's just like, you know, I'd rather have mast anyway. I think it's a better bloody compound. But I like it better personally, but each to their own. But yeah, I do think you would have to be a little bit wary of someone that has got a large supply of primo at the moment from from what we're hearing. But, you know, that doesn't mean that every primo everyone sign is dodgy as hell. It's it's not. And some labs do have reserves of raw. You know, they buy in decent numbers and they do have it held back. So, yeah, that could be the situation. But, uh, there's no way of really telling. But like you said, you know, testing is available to some extent. Unfortunately, mine mine won't be, but that's another Oh, yeah. Somebody asked us about that with your So, you had been working on gear testing basically in in the UK. It's not working out, huh? I It's having somebody the the issue is someone competent enough to run the machines and do it well and and be reliable. And I I won't. Got the kit, got all the raw standards, got everything. But can I find somebody to run the machine that genuinely knows what they're doing and can be consistent with it? No. Damn. So, it can't happen. It's just no way. You can't do a service like that and it not be 110% spot. Yeah. Yeah. Fair enough, man. And you know, I respect you for looking at it as you would rather take it as a loss versus put out a dodgy, you know, service. No, it just No, it just can't happen. So, if it's not right, it isn't running. It's as simple as that. I'm frustrated, but I've I've sort of come to terms with it now. DK had mentioned the guy with the Clen question. He said he's in about a 600 calorie deficit. Listen, if you want my first ask me anything that I did several weeks back while Dave was away on vacation, I went in to detail on how I personally use Clen, how I suggest Clen use. If you want to go back and watch that one, I would, you know, strongly encourage you to do that. If you just want some more insight, there's a lot of different ways to run it. That's one of them. But instead of going more in depth to it here for the hundth time, I'll just say go check that out for sure. And also Zionic had asked us uh where can we order Strom and avoid the $50 shipping fees to the US at this time. He's not available in the US, right Dave? No, but he put some up the other day with Strom USA. So I am assuming that it is coming that there is a distributor in the pipeline. Okay, cool. Cool. Uh great episode with Ryan. What a legend. Any advice on the next course I'm thinking of taking test e tren E deca and two units of growth and ideas of dosages because I've never run this before and I've heard that you shouldn't mix 19 Norris together. Thank you Scott and Dave. Love the show. Still watch every night. Big love from the UK. There's nothing sort of there's there's no reason why you can't put Deca and Trent together from a point of view of the drugs. They don't interact with each other, you know, they're not going to create some weird mix within the body. Yeah. The the the argument really is do you want two nors that are going to drive prolactin, lower dopamine, and everything else that those two compounds do in combination with each other at the same time? I would assume if you're looking at Deca, you're looking at bulking. If you're looking at bulking, trend would never be a choice for me. Um, I just don't think the costs from a point of view of potential negatives outweigh the benefits when there's other drugs that you could use as alternatives. Um, also you've got estrogen from test, you've got estrogen from DECA, okay, at a lower rate, and then you've got trend increasing estrogen sensitivity and both tren and deca increasing prolactin uh, and lowering dopamine and affecting GABA and affecting 5HTP. So, you've got a real mix of compounds there [\h__\h] with your mood chemicals that isn't always the easiest to tolerate, but that will depend down to the individual themselves and how well grounded they are within themselves. But, but I would stick to one either Trent or Deca. There's no secret I like Deca, but but I I would stick to one even with the the issues it causes. But, there's there's uh I would definitely stick to one rather than throw the two of them in there. Yeah. Oh, Tanya Miller hanging out with us in the live stream. She said she would naturally have HDL of 100 and LDL of 50 or less. That's like just where she naturally sits, which is and she said if she takes anrol at 5 to 10 milligrams daily, it literally flips. But that's crazy. You wouldn't think of 100 HDL. You know what I mean? No. Or orals orals are particularly harsh on lipids. Um, anavar actually increases LDL as well as lowering HDL. So, it's got a little bit of a double impact. She mentions red yeast, which is a good red yeast rice is is a good support for lowering LDL. The other one is nasin. Uh slow or non flush nasin would be my advice. But it's the the non flush doesn't work. It's you want to use the it's something in the flush, doesn't it? Yeah. It's something in the flush that gives you the reaction. So, if you use the non flush, you don't get it. At least that's what I had heard over the years. Um, you flush. I'm under the impression that slowing, which um doesn't flush, has some interesting study things around cholesterol. Farreaching study things around cholesterol. Oh, I'll have a look at that. Yeah, I be if you do, let me know because that's like I said, that's what I had heard. I've heard that mentioned by people over the years, but that doesn't mean that I'm like taking that out of a research study. So figure it out and tell me. You do the you do the leg work, Dave. Tell us all. I will. I don't I don't do it often, but I will do it on this occasion because I'm actually genuinely interested in that one. Okay. Uh, thanks for putting out such great content. It's awesome to learn about wise peed usage. I have a question regarding what I'll call igniting the anabolic switch. That sounds like the name of a book or something. Um, how much of a certain compound do you need to get some form of muscle anabolism? Here's my experience. 20 milligrams of dbol and VAR ignite my anabolic switch. 200 milligrams of Deca does the same. 150 test does the same. 70 Tren does the same. There are my threshold dosages at where I get some anabolism from them. Um, for mast I got zero anabolism even from up to 500 mg and I have run mast four times at the same results. So needless to say I'm not a fan of mast. Also agree with the advice uh that you don't need to run four or more compounds at a time. Uh only case I would do that is possibly for a contest. He said hopefully my question makes sense. I guess the question was how much of a certain compound do I need? That's the only question in there to get the anabolic effect or the an activate ignite the anabolic switch or to get muscle anabolism. Yeah. So he's asking how much of a certain compound do I need to get some form of muscle anabolism? But then he's telling us that what's the anabolic switch then Dave? How do you ignite an anabolic switch? And what is that exactly? I don't know. Do you need matches, dude? No, you just need a little dbol apparently. That's going to be hugely person dependent. Um and and you know how you feel a compound will depend on several factors within you. I mean also I know he said that mass did all well was it mass? Well and what's what is it not doing like what's how do you so what's I don't know what he means because he's saying that so if he takes 20 dbol Yeah. If he takes 20 dbol or 20 VAR, that ignites his anabolic switch. But he's asking, "How much do I actually need to grow muscle?" I think is what he's asking. Cuz okay, I get it. If I were to take 10 dbol before I train, I'm going to notice that deep ball in the gym. How much is it really giving me benefits? Like all of a sudden now I'm growing muscle. Yeah, I'm probably growing more muscle than I was, but I could definitely I think cost a benefit. There is a like a le a lowest a lowest amount I guess I would take. Well, like a minimum effective dose situation, but the thing is the variable here is training stimulus because we all know that the more on point your training and diet is, the lower doses you can get results with and the the poorer that is, the greater dose you're going to need to see that that result. So, so that plays a massive effect in this, you know, is in how how that works. Um, I just done a very quick look at nasin. Okay. What do you got? So, slow works very well. Okay. Flush flush free doesn't. Now, slow isn't flush free. Slow is time to release, which usually makes it flush free. Okay. I see. So it but the flush free is a different form of the acid and as a result has shown to be nowhere near as effective. Yes. So so slow is good, non flush is not. Regular nin is good, but you've got to be able to tolerate it. Okay. Okay. And there's been from what I understand like with that whole you know HDL cholesterol good or bad for your heart we don't know thing that whole side of things there's been no improvement in all cause mortality around the use of improving your cholesterol from nascin but I would still rather have better cholesterol than not you know well as that goes back to me I'd rather be wrong and you know and and be safeguarding rather than not safeguarding didn't and then find out, oh [\h__\h] I should have. Yeah, if I were to even have like heart issues due to cholesterol, I would still rather have said, well, at least I tried to keep my cholesterol up, you know. All right, what else do we have here? Okay, thoughts on using insulin for MMA fighters, for example, using highdosese Humalogue right after weigh-ins, pound some carbs, and come into the fight the next day 40 lb over your weight limit. 40 pounds of low back pumps. I I I can see a use for insulin if you've had to do a carb depletion and water drop to make weight because it's going to obviously help with that nutritional transit. Yeah. Coming in 40 lbs over, you're probably breathing like a [\h__\h] car or some not being able to [\h__\h] move in the ring. So, I can see that definitely be counterproductive when it comes to performance. But right, getting weight back up because you've used a water cup. Yeah, you a small amount of insulin could potentially help there. I could I could see some benefit there. But me, you don't want to be coming 40 pounds heavier. Oh, hey guys, I want to mention to you really quick, too, by the way, of course, leave us questions for the next show. But if you're enjoying this show, uh, hit the like button for us because it definitely helps us to get seen by more people. And of course, leave us comments if you enjoy the show. uh if you have something to add or even if you don't, just commenting is a huge benefit. So, thank you guys very much for that. And if you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe. And if you're subscribed, definitely hit the bell. Otherwise, YouTube won't show you. The way the new system works, they don't show you when new content comes out unless you get that YouTube notification. It's when you're in the app, you'll get a basically a little little number in the corner and when you click it, it says, "Oh, Think Big Bodybuilding put out a new podcast, you So anyway, if you don't do that, you might not see us again. How about this one about GH? He says, "Uh, I know that GH helps with joints, but have you guys ever seen anything about people with arthritis using GH to help uh combat flare-ups? Thanks, guys." No, I haven't. And a lot would depend on the type of arthritis as well. I think he said rheumatoid arthritis. Um because that can significantly I I would more be looking at something that's going to lower inflammation because that's your main driver with arthritis. So I would look at something that's going to lower uric acid which is generally elevated with arthritis. And I'd also look at something that is going to lower inflammation um sort of along the lines of glute glutathione that sort of stuff rather than GH. uh but it depends on on on like I say on the type some arthritic conditions can affect the tendons where other arthritic conditions are the actual joint structure and bone structure itself if it if it's tendon based then you you may see something from the GH um but again there's better compounds that are going to be more direct around tendon health such as TB BPC you know and even deck up to that point whereas um GH I don't think is going to be as effective. Let's see here. So, I'm looking at a study that says um all right, where does it start? In addition, GH has been implicated in perpetuating inflammation and pain in adult rheumatoid arthritis. GH is responsible for regulating long bone growth, skeletal maturation through its capacity to stimulate insulin like growth factor D uh growth plate disturbances and short stature in children uh resulting in deficits of GH receptor suppressing. Yeah, I'm not sure. But it just says here, GH has been implicated in perpetuating inflammation and pain in adults with arthritis with rheumatoid. So it's actually a negative impact. Yeah, I think you're on to something. Um, yeah, pro-inflammatory lucasytes. I So yeah, anything you can do to reduce inflammation would be better, right? Yeah, as I say, it depends on the type. There are there are a few types of arthritis that affect tendons rather than the joint rather than a sceal mus uh sceal tendon should sorry the sceal frame should I say. Uh so it it does depend on the type of I I can see GH having a mild positive but I just think there's definitely more effective compounds for lowering information and supporting if it's tendon based and if it if it's bone bone structural based then I'd leave GH well out of it. All right, see if I can get through one or two more. And then we still have uh Uncle Dave's wisdom of the day. And we've got a special segment about when did Dave meet his wife. No. Hey guys, love the show. Can you build more size with higher estrogen? Not like 200 estrogen, but more like 80 or 100. Thanks guys for your awesome wisdom. I'm 47 and seem to grow better with 80 to 100 estrogen. I imagine he's in the US and the range goes to 40. Yeah, more estrogen is not a bad thing like we used to think it was years ago, right? No, no, I don't think it is. Uh there is some did some argument around how effective elevated estrogen is on on supporting muscle growth, but but I do believe that low estrogen is not going to be as beneficial towards muscle growth and it's definitely not as supportive of things like joint structure. Uh lipids is another one for that matter. We've been discussing lipids a lot this week. Um so yeah I would always be sensible where my estrogen is rather than slum it uh growth hormone uh let's see growth hormone and FGF gene overexpression are linked to the initiation and progression of rheumatoid arthritis and juvenile chronic arthritis. Mhm. So, there we go. Yeah, there you go. I would just, you know what, do a study like I do or do a research or excuse me, do a Google search like I just did for research studies. And it looks like there's a a good amount of information that he could check out on that one. All right, let's see. We We don't have enough time for a lot more. Um, Jake, I like the way he writes this. How long can I run oxy 25 milligrams pre-workout five days a week before my liver melts out my ars? 17 years. 17 years. What's the difference between an ars and an ass? One's a type of donkey. Really? And one is you and one is you. Oh, thank you, Dave. You guys ever heard of someone getting numbness in their hands while on test only? No. Though I do suspect that there may be nerval impingement. So, it might be a training related issue that's been exaggerated because of higher levels of testosterone. Okay. Oh, Josh S, thank you very much. He says, "Scott, long overdue, but thank you for going on Table Talk with Dave Tate. I probably wouldn't have found the channel without that. And I've watched every episode of Drugs and Stuff I can find since then. Thanks for hanging with us, Josh. Dave, did I tell you that we had um a guy who was like a a computer programmer, I think he said, at the Arnold or Yeah, at the Arnold. I sent you that video of me talking to him, and he said he loves this show. He listens to this show on repeat. He said there's something soothing about our our conversations that just puts him in the space he wants to be to like get into his groove at work. How have you gone on on sorting out Monster bringing me over for the Arnolds next year? Monster. You haven't. Not Monster. Um you don't even First you have to learn their name, Dave. First you have to learn the company name. Mutant. They're all the same. Mutant. You You Have you saw it? Have you? Have you? Have you? I don't even know if I'm going to Germany with them. They might not. They might not want me cuz I do this show with you. They listen. If I didn't do this show with you, I'd have a better reputation in the industry. But they see me and they like, "Oh, he's the guy who does the show with that other guy who was from the under construction movies. We don't like him." Well, I actually Germany would be closer for me. So, it would cost them less. So, yeah, I'll just come to Germany instead. Go on, get it sorted. All right, I'll talk to them after the show. Yeah, you bet, dude. Hey, so what was that question we had at the very beginning of the show? Uh, from the Real Report. What's up, Real Report? He says, uh, Think Big Bodybuilding Live. He says, uh, "How did Dave meet his wife?" And also, we have Uncle Dave's wisdom. You guys can't forget about that. I know Dave didn't. He's been thinking about it since last week. No, he [\h__\h] hasn't. Um well I suppose I okay so I used to work the doors as a bounce a doorman whatever you want to call it. Um I was married um it wasn't that the marriage was particularly bad just it wasn't right um in the sense that we weren't two people that really should have been together but there was it wasn't like there was fighting or arguing or all that crap. We just there just wasn't enough commonality between us. Um I met my wife on the doors. Um the truth is she pursued me which I eventually succumb to. We had an affair. Oh, okay. Um the affair resulted in her getting pregnant. M uh with my oldest Charlie, I wasn't in a very good space from a point of view of I was running a door agency. I was dealing with not nice people a lot of the time in a very old school manner. So there were there were a lot of things going on that wouldn't be a positive environment for a child to be part of. Mhm. I also didn't feel that I was going to be a particularly good father. Uh and and so I in part deliberately didn't get involved with my daughter. Um in part was to protect her, but also without doubt in part was I [\h__\h] myself. And yeah, I was an [\h__\h] You know what I I was I was I'm not going to use the the C word, but it would be a fair description of me at that point, okay? I wasn't a particularly nice person. I was involved in lots of nasty [\h__\h] I was doing lots of nasty [\h__\h] and the last thing I needed was a kid. Um I ended up in a second marriage which was miserable. Uh but I did this because I felt it was what I deserved. M so there was a lot of self-punishment going on. There was a lot of self-loathing going on and I never really forgave myself for what I did. Uh but I also thought that my now wife had moved on would be in another relationship Charlie would be brought up by stepfather and they would be having a nice life. So so I didn't in any way want to damage that. So I kept one away. Uh, fast forward, lots of [\h__\h] Um, ended up in prison. Spent a long time reflecting on me as a person, how I acted, and came to the conclusion that even though I had been an absolute chitag in a lot of ways, there was only so long I could beat myself up about this. And if I was ever to move forward, I needed to forgive myself and move forward. I needed to be realistic about who I was. I needed to accept who I was and that was the big thing. Being truthful about the person I was accepting that and then moving forward from there. Uh so imp prison was very good for me. I was in for a long time and probably longer than I should have been in a sense of what I did. What was a long time? Four and a half years. Okay. um which for VAT fraud was a bit heavy but at the same time I needed it. I needed that time to come to terms with me. I needed that time to accept me to learn me and to start to be honest about who I was. And from that point forward, I adopted a very honest approach regarding myself, which is why I've always been so open about the drug stuff and and you know, what went wrong and what I did to myself because from that point onward, I decided that the way to live my life was through honesty uh and being honest about me, who I was, my failings, and everything else. I came out of prison into um a loveless situation, a [\h__\h] relationship and I started to work towards right if I can set a situation up where I can leave this relationship where I don't leave him in the [\h__\h] then I can move forward from there. Uh, I didn't want to be in a relationship anymore, but I couldn't find myself just walking away from that without at least putting some things in place that would keep them in some level of support. Yeah. Opened a gym. Gym wasn't doing great, but it was getting by. And it was like once this is near financially stable, they can have it. I'll leave and I'll just start fresh. In that time period, it was getting very very close to the point of me going. My ex was starting to do crazy and crazier things cuz she could sense this was coming. She she knew things weren't good. So, she started doing crazy and crazier things inventing health problems that weren't there, including the big C and various other stuff. Uh, in that time, my daughter got in contact. So, that was a surprise. But at end of the day, I went to see her and realized that I still had very strong feelings for her mother. She realized she still had very strong feelings for me. But her intention was to, in her own words, make me fall in love with her and then drop drop me like a hot potato to basically teach me a lesson. And I was Oh, you're kidding me. She was going to screw you over like that, huh? And I was very accepting of that because I knew there was a risk of that getting into a relationship with her. Yeah. Uh my relationship was done. It was just literally I hadn't walked out the house at that point yet. But it was it was in every other aspect finished. You know what I mean? It was done. Yeah. Um so uh I knew what I was walking into. I knew I was and I was very much expecting to get [\h__\h] on, but it was like I have to take the risk. I do deserve to be [\h__\h] on for what happened. But at the same time, I'm not going to carry on living my life in a state of apology. I am entitled to be happy. I have spent 12 years in a relationship that I didn't want to be in as self-imposed punishment because I didn't felt I could ever move on. I felt that was what I deserve because of how I treated people in the past. We I did leave my second wife and did get back into a relationship with my current wife uh who was the daughter of my child. Um and we've never looked back since and it's been nothing but positive. I never heard that entire story, Dave. Yeah, we've had I mean like any relationship, we've had arguments, but fundamentally we love each other and we we respect each other and and we do spend a huge amount of time together cuz we work together. You know, we run a business together as well as living together and everything else. Yeah. Uh and you know, and I love it to um the ex didn't take too kindly to me leaving. Sure. She had two kids from a previous that I was stepfather to. stayed in tight kindly to the financial impact of me leaving even though I left them a gym. Okay. Um and there was there was a probably a 12 months of a lot of [\h__\h] flinging and [\h__\h] but at the end of the day I know I've done nothing wrong in that scenario. Um and I'm not ashamed of that situation. Um they can spin it how they want. I don't really give a [\h__\h] Tanya Miller said uh wow love the self-awareness Dave H. Yeah, that that that coming to to and I think if you want to you want to spin a, you know, Uncle Dave's advice out of this, I I I think you have to accept your wrongs, but you don't have to live in shame and punishment for them. Yeah, I could relate to that, man. Cuz I feel like after I got clean, I felt like I kind of deserved to be treated poorly cuz that's what I earned. That's what I, you know, and I I know other people that are like that. I know somebody who just recently got out of a long-term relationship, one of my longtime friends, and she kind of feels like she's a bad person because it didn't work out. She takes the blame and she feels like it's on her, so she deserves bad things. It's only fair. I I Yeah, I think you have to accept your role in in the negativity in your life and where things have gone wrong. You have to accept, you know, I played a role in that. I sure I had an action in that. But that doesn't mean you're not entitled to happiness. It doesn't mean you're not entitled to a good life. And there's only so much self-deprivation you can do about it. You know, there's only so much you can beat yourself up. And at some point, you've got to accept, look, I made choices. I made mistakes. Yeah. There was reasons for those mistakes. There was reasons for those choices. U looking back in hindsight, it's always easier to go, well, yeah, you shouldn't have done that. You shouldn't have done this. But in the situation when when you're you're banging heads with quite serious naughty people. Naughty people. Naughty people. Proper British thugs. Yeah. You you you make choices, you know what I mean? Um and but there's no denying that those choices regards abandoning my door, which is exactly what I did. There's there's no I can't sit here and say well it was purely for home protection. Was it bollocks? It was also because I was terrified of having a [\h__\h] gate, you know. Yeah. Um I didn't know what to do with it. And and I went through a a period of making equally bad decisions particularly around relationships based on actually trying not to hug things up. Uh and when I when I sort of went, look, enough is enough. you know, you've done XY Z. That's disgusting. That's terrible. But at the end of the day, it's done. Put a line under it, learn from it, and move on. And I think if you learn from it, that's the big thing. It's when you repeat the same mistakes. But if you hide from your mistakes, you do tend to repeat them because you live it you live in the history where if you if you if you put a line through it and go, "Right, yeah, that was wrong. That was out of order, but I've done it. I own it. I need to move forward and and and you do need a little bit of self forgiveness, particularly if you've learned your lesson and you're not repeating it. Naughty lads. Yeah, there were there was some particularly there there's there's there's books written about a few of the people I banged heads with. Yeah, it was good. This that was a great Uncle Dave's advice, too. And look, you didn't even plan on that, huh? Yeah. You know, life life is a way of learning in it. Guys, check out uh if you if you're interested in coaching, you can reach out to Dave. Hit him up over on social media. I'll have a link to his uh Instagram below. You can reach out to me mcnal diets@gmail.com. Of course, get your labs done by Dave. If you're in the UK, you can go to evalblood analysis.com to get that set up all throughout the UK. You can get that done. And we are brought to you by stroports.com. That's stumportsnutrition. As for now, just in the UK and check out their new gym. It sounds like they're going to be opening up soon across the the street from uh Matt's work. You can go visit Matt, fellow listener. Tell him that we said hi. And of course, we're brought to you by supplements.ca for Canadians and truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there, guys, for another episode of Drugs and Stuff with Dave Crosslin. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Bye. And thanks everybody on the live stream. Hustler VJ. I don't see Clen as being a great uh preworkout for pump. Just throwing it out there to you, man. Sure, Seis is great. Uh I'd save the cleanse specifically for fat burning. You know, just try to use the least amount of things possible. Save your heart. All right, guys. See you.