 I can hear the excitement in Chad's voice working Samson, and that's another thing, like I like that's what I want to hear, whoever's going to help Samson next, I want them to be like, excited, like, I don't know, not stressed, like, I don't know, not stressed, not worry, oh God, I got to handle Samson, I think Chad would take that in stride, he'd be like, oh, let's go. I love a good gym rivalry. Yeah, like, I mean, it's hard now, everyone trains at different gyms now, like the old, the old, the old, the old monoculture, there was like, everyone who competed almost, trained at the same gym in the city I lived in, right? Mm-hmm. So there was like, gym rivalries, like, that guy beat that guy at Provincials last year, but that guy is squatting five plates now, and we're gonna see what happens, and there was a lot more, like, it was fun, like, I, we don't really have it now, people train all over the place, you know what I mean? Yeah. But, uh, I love a good gym rivalry back in the day, those were fun, and I had them myself, too, I had them myself, like, and, you know, you know those guys, they're kind of your frenemies? I took way too much Climbuterol. Okay. And now we know that, like, you know, probably, not the best idea. Clen's very useful, but, like, we know now, like, you can use way less of it, like, you guys now are using, I mean, I don't know how much Climbuterol you guys have experience with, but, like, my generation, we did not understand anything bad about Climbuterol, it was, like, candy. Hey, everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding, I'm Big Ron Partlow with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, and comment, and... Ring the bell. There we go, and it is Donna's birthday today? That's right, that's why she's the guest bell ringer. That is amazing. Six. Six years old. Six. Time flies. Look at her, just, like, look at her, she's looking like a boss right now. Yeah, just killing her. She's looking right at us, too. That's the world she lives in. Yeah. She runs this shit. I'm gonna let her beat up the other dogs. So, remember, Iammutant.com, or MutantNation.com, both actually work. I always say Iammutant.com, that's E-O-G, and use your codes Dusty and Big Ron, get your hardcore ISO, get your MindFK, and everyone should get on the gear. Of course, the essential amino acids, for those not in on the joke, is called gear. So, get on the gear at Mutant, order your stuff online, use the code, save money, avoid people, have it delivered to your doorstep. You don't have to put pants on to get your supplements. Try paraxinathine. I never did before. Paraxinathine. Is that how you say it? Yes. Is that it? Yeah. Try it. Try it. Freaking amazing. MindFK. Scott Love it. So, I was doing a bunch of research on it. It turns out that there are three metabolites of caffeine, and I think I'm saying it right. Paraxinathine is one of them, and it has all the stuff we like from caffeine with none of the drawbacks, basically. Like, there's no tolerance. You don't build tolerance to it over time. Like, with coffee, you just drink coffee, and it's like before you know it. Like, that first cup is great, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Then you use the third. Right, exactly. And you don't get the negative jitters, all that stuff. I'm a big fan. I even found I can use it a little bit later in the day than I'd want to use caffeine, and I still can get to sleep just fine. Yeah, so if I have to train earlier in the day, I'm more likely to use something like all-in or like a pre-workout. Yeah. But if I'm training a little bit later than normal, I will definitely use MindFK because I'm trying not to caffeinate after 6 p.m. so I can sleep better. Yeah. You know, the half-life on caffeine is about six hours or whatever it is. Three o'clock is my cutoff. Oh, really? Hard three o'clock. Yeah. I'm up to midnight, so that's my math. Yeah. So check this out. Give this a try one day. Do like a half a scoop of all-in and a half a scoop of MindFK. See what happens. Oh, done that lots. Yeah, yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's great. Yeah. Everyone's got their pre-work. It's like, you know, the pre-workout thing is like your little – everyone's got their little personal thing. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. You know? And then some people like to try a different one every day. Like the people that come into the gym and they do the separate – Pre-workout roulette. Oh, yeah. Pre-workout roulette. You don't know what's going to happen. That's exactly what it is. Because you wind up having like something that is terrible and you're having a leg day and you're like, oh, God. Yeah. I'm always with Ron when he loses the roulette. The worst, though – I'm like, that one had a bullet. Oh, boy. What's your worst pre-workout experience? That's a good one. We could go over that one. Oh, man. Okay. But that's not the starting topic today, though. No. What's your starting topic? The starting topic is the rumor slash truth that Samson is open to the idea of bringing on a new coach. Oh, okay. Okay. Well, that's a discussion that I'm sure he's had a few times. I mean, how many coaches has he had now that we can think of? Just a couple, right? Yeah. Milos, the wife. He's kept it pretty close to the vest. Yeah, yeah. No. Yeah. What do you guys think? I mean, I think it's a great move no matter who he goes to just to take pressure off. I mean, I think if my wife or even like a close friend was controlling my prep, I might be thinking a little bit. Right. I might have a say, you know. And although Chris and I became friends over the years, like I literally put zero thought or worry into anything because that was his job. And I feel like that, you know, the pressure that they, I mean, because he feels the pressure on this as well now with her running the show and, you know, his, his Olympia being, you know, arguably his worst look yet. Um, so I would say, yeah, you just hand it over to someone. And from what I understand, he is someone who executes flawlessly. So if they're a good coach and they're paying attention, shouldn't be too difficult to, uh, to bring him in. Right. And then he can be in full relaxation mode. She can be in full supportive wife mode. I mean, yeah, I don't know. I've always looked at that way. I mean, Ron, you know, this, like I've always, I've always laughed at the amount of guys who need to coach their wives or girlfriends. Um, and not there's anything wrong with it. I had great success coaching, you know, a lot of people in my life, but I found it was more fun. Like when Nikki decided to do a last show, I was like, cool. Who are you hiring? Cause I don't want to do it. Right. Like I was like, I want to be, I want to be pom poms and I'll cook your food. That's what I want to do. Right. And it made it way more enjoyable for me. Um, and then I just, you know, would text Ron every now and then and be like, uh, yep, you're doing awesome. I know it's hard to tell cause she doesn't say much and everything's fine. Nikki was, uh, Nikki was just like a military client. That's awesome. Your, your, your wife was like a military. Like I had no concerns about whether she was following the plan. It was just like, yeah, she just brought her food with her. We're, we're like eating breakfast. We've got French toast out and everything. And she's like just sitting there eating her food. Every single, every single check-in photo set got better. Yeah. Yeah. Like, you know, there wasn't one like, Oh, okay. What are we going to have to do here? Like, I don't even think I, I don't remember how many times I changed her diet. It was like four in like 20 minutes. Yeah. Yeah. And sometimes I'd even think like, I should probably like ask her more questions. She doesn't really have much to say. I'd be like, how's everything going? She'd be great. Like, you know, like good. Like, you know how sometimes you're like, maybe I should ask this client about their emotions. She doesn't have any. You're good. She's like, I'm fine. I'm like, Oh, okay. Yeah. You know, emotions are actually banned from this house. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's pretty bulletproof. She had no, like, there was no like, yeah, it was pretty funny. I think that that will be a great thing. But I would go with someone that's tried and true because like, you're, you're not going to ruffle Chad Nichols feathers taking you on or a Cito or, you know, honey, who I know is retired, but he's not really because he still helped one person for the Olympia. Um, you know, those people, they're like, Oh yeah. And I feel like any of them are just going to take him to the next level and he's going to realize quickly. I think if I don't know if it's for some reason, I, if I had to like pick someone to coach Samson just to see, I think I'd pick Chad. Right. Yeah. Because Samson has all the gifts. Yeah. And Chad's really good with those guys. Huh? Right. Like the guys that he can do that, like the, the, the Ronnie shit with, like, I don't know. I think have some barbecue sauce. You'll be fine. I don't know. Just let's just see what Chad has to do with. I don't know. Cause you know how like some people's bodies, like, you know how bulletproof Ronnie was? Yeah. Like you can put Ronnie on the stairs for three hours a day. His legs aren't shrinking. Like, you know, like it's just this industrial strength. Like, so I want to see someone like kind of do, do something with Samson where they're like, you know, that, that level. I don't know. Not like he has to do three hours of stairs. I just mean like the, the, you know, the Chad Nichols do anything. Like, I don't know. I'm just interested. The whatever it takes plan. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I worked with Chad. Like, I know what that's like. I know what he does. You know, it was like a lot of like, you know, a lot of food and offseason. And big cuts. It was like, it was a hard cut for the contest. It was good. But I like to see that be good fit. Absolutely. You know, I get the vibe that, you know, like anytime you go into like a coach client relationship, that client has to have trust. Right. They have to have trust in that coach and, and they have to like, you know, be on the, that I just get the vibe that like one of the reasons that maybe. He's saying. ! DUNCampson felt that him and his wife would work out really well is because he trust her, right? He trust her 100% and that's I think what that foundation of that was like, well, it's a no brainer, why don't I just trust you? It's not gonna she's not gonna like throw anything at him that he's unsure of and challenges him, you know, I just, I just, I feel like, yeah, maybe, maybe, maybe something like that would be a good move. I think the last thing he would need would be somebody who was gonna like turn it all upside down and do things different than he's always, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, he doesn't need that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm just thinking, you know, what Chad did with Rami. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's a great example. I think they'd be a great fit. You know, they made some money. Yeah, yeah, okay. They did all right, you know, and I just think, you know, you get that, that, you know, the, the, the really big super freaks, like Chad kind of dominated that, that whole, like, end of the spectrum for, like, a long time and it'd be, and he would be, like, laid back enough, I think, to let Samson still be Samson. Well, that's, that's, that's another thing about Chad's personality is, like, like, I remember working with Chad and, like, you know, Chad's like, Chad's like the backwards hat guy, you know, like, he's, he's, he's cool, like, he's like the hockey coach you always wished you had. That's kind of, Chad's that type of dude, like, he's, I think, I think Samson would have a blast working with him because he's a really fun dude, too, and he just loves it. And, like, I like Chad a lot. I mean, we've had him on the show. He's like an awesome dude. And, and I just. We'll bring him back on once he hires him. And also, too, like, I think Chad and Samson would be great because I can hear the excitement in Chad's voice working with Samson. And that's another thing, like, I, like, that's what I want to hear. Whoever's going to help Samson next, I want them to be, like, excited, like, I don't know, not stressed, not worry, oh, God, I got to handle Samson. I think Chad would take that in stride. He'd be like, oh, let's go. Yeah. I don't know. I've done this a lot. That's a great call, man. That's a great call. I would have initially thought you would have said Chris. That would have been, like, my first thought because, you know, you guys are both huge Chris fans. But now that you've painted it this way, I'm like, eh, I can totally see this. Yeah. See, Chris is, like, I mean, Dustin and I know his style very well. Like, I, I think Chad might be, like, the, the personality might be right for, for Samson. And I don't even know Samson barely at all, right? But I'm just saying, like, from what social media and from what everyone says, Samson's, like, such a great guy. I think he'd be a good fit for that. Right. That'd be cool. Yeah. Okay. All right. You heard our prediction. There we go. Is that a prediction? Well, maybe I'm putting that out. I'm putting that out into the universe. Maybe someone will phone somebody. Yeah. I don't know. If it happens, Ron did it. Would that be funny? Yeah. That's how it'd be funny. Even if it's already done, I would say you did it. Let's say they pair up and he wins another Olympia. And I'm sitting here like, where's my money? I'll make a real of it. Ron Partlow predicts the next winning, you know, pair. The swami Ron Partlow. That's funny. Okay. What's next on this list? Well, we kind of, I kept it with the Olympia thing because I heard that not all the Olympia money is paid out yet. What? And that seems surprising. I don't know if it's accurate, but there seems to be a little bit of a problem with the pro ranks and getting guys paid. I don't think that's a money problem. If anything, there might be an administrative problem. Sometimes that's just those big organizations. I've dealt with stuff where you're like, doesn't anybody, isn't anybody? It's definitely not a money problem because I know who's funding it. Yeah. Yeah. It's not money. You know, the money's there, right? I, I, I, it's kind of weird though, as a, as a, I don't know, person, an athlete, a businessman, uh, both like, obviously if you're worried, you're not going to get paid. That's a big problem. But then if you know the money's there, it's also highly irritating. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're like, here's what I need you to do. Type in the numbers. Right. Hit send. It'll end up in my account. We could do this right now. So whatever came down to the masters guys, they wound up getting their money. Uh, from what I understand, um, Jake covered some, but I don't know that they've all been paid either. It's really a weird, Oh, I don't know. I thought years ago they started making all these guys put the money in an account and a trust before it even happened. Uh, which I don't know why you wouldn't do that if this is an issue because you know, you've signed the dotted line that this is what you're going to do. It can't have anything to do with how the show goes, how much money you make, like you owe, you know what I mean? It's the same as the rest of us. I mean, I don't get to, uh, call my mortgage company and go, Hey guys, kind of a rough month. So, uh, you want to let this one slide? I've got some investments that are doing really good. So I'm just going to sit my money there for another month and then I'll catch you your piece off. Don't worry about it. So I don't know. That part would be annoying to me, but I thought the big one that I've been seeing all over and I know it's not happening, but I would love to get your guys' thought is should the Olympia leave Vegas? So I think, um, I mean, I don't want the Olympia to leave Vegas, uh, for certain reasons, but I totally understand that they might have to for other reasons. Like for me, it's just easy. Vegas is two hour flight. It's a logistics thing. It's a logistics thing. I went to Orlando that one year and that was like a rough trip, man. Like that's a long ways for me to go to Florida. It's like, you know, it's farther than it's like you guys fly in New York to LA, you know, it's like a long weekend and you're tired and connecting flight and getting there, you know, and all that stuff. Vegas was just like, Vegas is so easy. But the, we talked about this, how expensive Vegas got. And even the average person, like even the average guy who's the average guy who's like doing okay, he's good, but he's like, I just paid 50 bucks for eggs. Like what the fuck is going on? And that stuff irritates people, even if they can afford it. Like I told the story about my friend who's like rich and he was saying like, it's $10 for a Red Bull. Yeah. They're robbing us. Mm-hmm. And he's like a rich guy. Then he, he's like annoyed. So I'm like, that can't be, that can't be like popular. Like, you know, everyone at the O is like, you know, no one wants to bitch and complain on the weekend, but everyone's kind of mumbling. Like it's really expensive here now. Like, so, uh, it's hard to do that because like, you know, you don't want to, you don't want the fans to have to like start making choices. Like, can I even go this year? Like, you don't, you know, like a lot of people having that discussion. Can we afford to go to the Olympia? It's just so crazy. I knew people that didn't this year because they had gone the year before and they're like, it's, it was so expensive. Yeah. It's way worse this year than the year before. You know, these are people that have been showing up every year and they're like, we just can't do it this time. Just looking at those prices. Yeah. So I would be all for them moving it. I'd like to see it in the Northwest somewhere. You know? Ron's like, is there anything that they could land it to say in Vancouver? Yeah. Yeah. The Mr. Olympia comes to Seattle. I'm like, oh, great. That's fucking awesome. Drive down. I mean, I'm good with Columbus. For that reason. Let's just move it there. Well, move it along. All the shows are in Columbus now. I know. So yeah. If it moved, it would end up moving to Texas. Yeah. It probably would be cool. Because that makes a ton of sense as far as hotels, everything else like that. Central, big airport, international flights, direct flights from London, direct flights from all over the world, right? Dallas is like a huge... It's easy. And I mean, I know that we don't have a whole Mecca thing as much as people like to use that word now, which annoys me. But Dallas is definitely... But Dallas is definitely... Like, Texas is the spot now. Yeah. That's where everyone's at. It's one of these major spots. You know? Like, it's what Vegas was starting to be after LA lost its way in every possible way. But I think that that would be a sensible spot. And, you know, it's not overly inconvenient for Ron, which is my primary concern. When I think of these things, I'm like, what does Ron need? And I was like, he could work with this. Yeah. You know? He's got gasp connections. I mean, hello. Simple enough. I want to go to Michael's house again and look at his guns. I showed Scott that video. Oh, that was so cool. He's got the collection. You don't have a shower gun? That's weird. Yeah. You got a shower gun? You never know. Yes. Okay. Okay. Do we want to go through this in order? Just roll them any way you want. What advice would you give your younger self in regards to bodybuilding? Mm-hmm. Scott, you never answer first. Yeah. Let's do Scott first. This is your turn. I like that I get time to think. I know. That's why I'm here. I'm like, oh, I came up with something real smart. This looks like an unfair advantage. He watches us stumble over our thoughts. Yeah. Now that these fools said what they were. Now that the idiots are done. He's like all curated. Comes in. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Okay. I'll say this. You know what? I mean, there's a lot of things that I could say. But, gosh. I'll start with this one. Then let me let you guys go. And then I'll come up with my better curated version. There we go. We'll edit the first one out. Yeah. We'll just cut this all out. Nobody's going to see it. I'll say that in all honesty, I think that I wish that I understood heavy progressive training. I had written myself off as being somebody who could be like legit, legit strong. And I figured out everything I could possibly do to make as much progress as I possibly could without getting like actually legit, legit strong. I finally did figure it out. But I was already in my 40s. I got a late start to begin with with bodybuilding. I was never going to be Mr. Olympia. You know what I mean? Right. Definitely not a classic though. Yeah. Or maybe, maybe, maybe in 212, Dustin. But, yeah, I just I wish that, you know, sometimes we we say that like.  We tell ourselves the story of who we are. And if I would have been a little bit more open-minded a little bit more open-minded a little bit sooner, maybe I would have gotten stronger faster than I did. And a stronger muscle is a bigger muscle is a bigger muscle. There's that. There's that. I agree with that, Scott. And I think, you know, this is something that I can see how that would happen because you've got guys that just naturally are strong. You know, I mean, the first time they walk into the gym, they're doing things that people don't do and it's like, oh, then I'll just do this. They're going to be the strong way. But I think people don't do this. But I think people don't do this. But I think people lose track of the fact that progressive overload isn't about who's lifting the most weight. It's about who's progressing the fastest. So if you started at a 90-pound bench press and two months later at a 135-pound bench press, you know, your percentage-wise, your growth is enormous. And you're training next to a guy who's been, you know, somewhere between 300 and 330 for two years. And you're thinking, oh, he's a lot, he's doing better than me. He'll be like, hmm, not if you look at it right. You know what I mean? It's all about that progression. So I think a lot of people could learn from that and, you know, get those changes. I do want to touch one more thing before we let you go, though, Scott, on that is what about the back training? Like what, you know, you learned a ton there. And I wish there was a way to drop those pictures in here because it's pretty mind-boggling what you did after you essentially decided you just didn't have a good back and probably never would. Yeah, I think that for me it was, man, you know, and I say this to guys now is think about how many reps you've done on the lat pulldown or how many reps you've done on the dumbbell row. And if you're not getting the results that you want, then maybe you need to rethink what you're doing. And that might mean like starting from scratch. It's hard to reteach yourself how to do an exercise. After you've already done, like how many reps have you done on a pulldown? Like 50,000 reps, you know? So you ingrain that in your brain and this is how a pulldown is done. It's hard to unwire that. But the sooner that you can, if you have a body part that's just not growing, like my back compared to the people I was training with, like these guys, their back's growing. And I'm getting some progress, but nothing like they were and nothing like I knew I should have for the amount of effort that I was putting in. It just came down to adjusting my technique. Like it really took finally having the humility of saying like, man, I need to start from scratch. I back to the weight down, Dusty, on the pulldown to like 70 pounds. Right. And I was playing with 70 pounds for like a month straight. And then from there I began to, it started making sense and I started progressing. But it was all about figuring out how to back off from what I thought the lat pulldown was supposed to be and really just listen to my body, listen to that muscle and figure out how to connect to it. And it just changed, dude. Six months later, I had a freaking back. I wish I would have discovered that a decade sooner, you know? Right, right. Yeah. I, I think you're next, Dusty. I asked a question. Oh, cheating. I wrote it. No, I would say, and this is something that I think people should, should definitely heed my regret on is that I regret not being not being aware of the fact that the best part of my bodybuilding career was taking place every day in the gym with my friends. Mm-hmm. Oh, what's the next thing? Yeah, we move on so quickly. Yeah. And you don't realize, you don't just take the time like when you're walking out of the gym to go, that was awesome. Like that day, that workout, the guys, whatever it was. And I really do believe that like I've had a really fortunate life with a lot of awesome stuff. And I've definitely realized from friends that are around me and guys who make a ton of money, guys who don't make a ton of money, everyone's favorite thing in their best part of life is hanging with the boys. And I'm like, oh, that doesn't require any of these other things I worry about. So when I look back now, I'm like, I just wish I would have soaked it up a little more. Right. Appreciate it. That's a great one. I think it's funny. I know the question is, what do you regret? I think the opposite of that, what do I, I really, really glad I did is log booking when I was young. Log booking, I still have them. That's why I like people, you know how logging is like come back into style. I mean, it never totally left, but there's a lot more people now recording their reps or going into their apps. I was 225, I got nine. Or they're making, I even see some guys at the gym, old school pen and paper. Some of the young guys are kind of doing it, you know, the analog way. And so that's great. I want to say that that's something that I think was absolutely crucial to me being so big, so young, was I was aggressively logging everything. And as far as regret goes, I know that it was part of my, like I was at, I was 110% all in when I was young. Like at a young age, I was a bodybuilder. Like you asked me, like at 22, you asked me, what are you? I'm a bodybuilder. Like it was my identity, right? Completely wrapped up in it. And I think that that's part of why I got good young. But it also too, like it, it, it, it, uh, I wish I would have been a little bit more like, I'm going to take, I'm going to turn off that. I'm going to turn that off for a day. Right. Here and there. Like there's a lot, you know what I mean? Like I turn that off for a day. You didn't have to be as plugged in. I didn't have to be as militant about it. It was, I did, I did miss out on some stuff that I learned later. You don't have to miss out on that. You can take your meal with you. You could like, I was, I was like, kind of like, I was, I almost took a little bit of pride in the anti-societal side of that era of bodybuilding. Cause we were all kind of outlaws too. Right. Right. Like the whole juice thing. Like once it became obvious that you're juicing, like once I'm 275 with like traps up to here, uh, when I'm 23 years old, at that point, everyone's like, Oh, who's this guy? And so once you get to that, like you're obviously juicing, you know, sort of thing. Um, it's, it, it changes how like you're perceived in society and how you interact with everyone. And I think I, I sort of, it was that, I was at era of bodybuilding where we were like, yeah, we're not part of society. Like, yeah. And we like counterculture. Yeah. Totally counterculture, which is like, I don't know. Every person goes through a little bit element of that, but I think I maybe stayed in that for an extra decade. An extra decade. Yeah. You know? So I don't know. I don't regret like missing anything really, but I could have been, I could have been a little bit more of a balanced human being. I definitely could have been a bit more reasonable. It wouldn't have cost you anything. No. I think that's the big thing that people miss now. It wouldn't have cost me anything. You know? I think that there's, there's no cost on the bodybuilding side, but there is a cost on the side of, of, of life experience that you don't have to miss. Yeah. You know? And it's relatively simple, you know, to, to just, that's something I hammer on people all the time. And they're like, ah, you don't have time. I'm like, dude, you're on a prep diet. Like it takes like three minutes to eat your meal. Yeah. Yeah. You could go to the party, drink a water and hang out with everybody. And then just kind of disappear. Like you're in the bathroom, but just walk out to your car, knock down the meal, come right back in. And no one even knows it happened. And you're good to go. Like if you don't want to be the weirdo walking out with a, with a Tupperware, that's fine. But, um, no, I, I agree. I think that's a huge one that I press a ton to people. Cause Jose taught me that when I was on the road, I, I was so jammed guys on the fact, like I knew I wasn't as good as who I was competing against. So it was like, I have to be perfect. I always had that mentality too. I don't know if that was good or bad. Well, I think it's good because it, a, for, for us, it was true. And that's the hinges. I'm like, it was true. So like, but it's one of those things where you, it, it, I learned from Jose that there was actually a line where it was excessive and not helping. Yeah. And then once he kind of broke that down, I actually got better. And I think I just enjoyed a little bit more like bodybuilding and life at the same time. And then I was like, Oh, I'm improving, you know? And then when the data supports the decisions, you're like, all right, we'll stay right here. You know, it's like you said, Scott, I think the problem with a lot of people is they ignore the data. You know, you're, you're doing a lap pull down for a decade and you can't go, why is my back not growing? And, and that's just such a, it's a common thing, particularly with lifting. Like when I used to do in-person training, the amount of competitive figure athletes, cause back in the day, figure was a shoulder competition in your upper body. Yeah, it really was. And, uh, I had to retrain every single girl on how to do a lateral raise. And then I started to notice I had to retrain people on how to do a hip throw.  And I was like, oh, wait, the common denominator is the things that look simple are the things that people are doing wrong. Because it's like we just lift your arms out to the side. Oh, you just drive your hips up. That's a hip thrust. I'm like, no, there's actually a lot more going on there. Your head position matters where it's at, you know what I mean? And that's the part that a lot of people miss. And again, they just, they're doing lateral raise, lateral raise, and all they got is traps. And I'm like, pretty sure you're doing something wrong. We might want to, tweak, tweak, tweak, tweak, tweak, tweak, you know, so it's just, paying attention to those changes or lack thereof is, is the magic. And like I said, when I loosened up and things actually got better, I was like, oh, I might've been hindering myself. You know? So, interesting. What do we got next? Uh, what suggestions do you have for someone who wants to be successful in life when they don't know where to start? Ooh, this is a big question. Yeah. Yeah. That was a little open-ended. Um, Yeah. So my knee jerk on that is to make sure that you are a organized and driven person in every regard. Like, I think if you, if you, if your foundation is set up in a way that everything that you do is to the highest degree possible, things kind of present themselves. You know, um, the amount of people who are unorganized in every facet of their life and then can't believe that they're not getting some big break or they don't have a reputation for being someone who does everything they do to the best of their ability or that there's someone that can be counted on, you know, those kinds of things. When you set that foundation, then when you find the, the thing you love that you want to go all in on, you just slide all of that stuff over. Yeah. Do whatever that's required and you will become successful at it, you know? And then the only other thing I wanted to add, and it's just because it came up on the Evan interview is don't be a victim. There was a guy who commented about Evan talking about money when people can't possibly buy a house these days. And I'm like, I'm not saying it's not hard, but if your mindset is I can never buy a house, well, then you never will. Because, you know, you don't want to own the fact that you have to make decisions that put you in a position to be successful. You know, when I was first, um, train doing, I had a training studio and the opportunity to come to buy the stores. I was only able to buy them because I was putting money away every month, not knowing what it was for. And then when the guy needed $50,000 down, I was like, I have 49,000. Can we make a deal? But had I just been living, the opportunity would have left. Just living, thinking, ah, things are so expensive. What I'm making, I'm making lots of money, so I'll have fun. I don't need to worry about saving anything. I'm 26 years old. And I think a lot of people don't realize that you have to be prepared when opportunities present themselves. And that's why, I mean, I saved 20% of the money I made my whole life. Right. So when I was broke making $8.25 an hour, had to save 20%. Yeah. You know? Yeah. I, I, um, I think people need to, there's so much noise now. And I think one of the things that I'm good at doing is, uh, well, I'm told this by other people anyways, a couple of people around me tell me this all the time is, uh, I'm good at absolutely not caring about 99% of the noise. Mm-hmm. mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic mic care about any of your problems that's how I always was and I just think the focus is why I was I guess successful at bodybuilding to a degree like you know I never want to limp or anything but you know I had a bodybuilding life that was pretty cool and I was super super focused I did not care what was going on around me like and and people are so distracted and so involved in other shit and drama and I just I just I think that that's a huge it holds people back in everything in their life I just that energy is just a complete waste and um I just I that's my my thing I just think people have energy just you know wasted off into all sorts of stuff and you got to control that you know agree Scott you've had a lot of time I have I had a lot of time here big expectations no pressure but everyone's focused on you now I I do remember um when I got out of photography I didn't know what I was gonna do you know because for a decade plus I had it in my mind that I'm a photographer this is what I'm gonna do and people would tell me like oh that is so amazing that you have a vision for your your life and you know that from a young age like I had this idea in my head and it was very black and white so when I decided that's not what I was going to do I was just kind of there and I had no clue you know and I I got into bodybuilding and I loved it and I was just working the job I had worked uh while I was going through college uh came back to that job here in Michigan and for several years I still had no idea like what that was going to be um but I do remember hearing Dave Palumbo say the words that if you love what you do and and you keep doing it that it eventually will make money and in bodybuilding just like everybody right like you start to get some level of success I started competing and then naturally people who didn't have as much experience as me started asking me questions and so I started answering the questions that I could answer I didn't tell people like oh I'm this great coach I can you know like I didn't try to present myself as something I wasn't but I did have knowledge compared to people who had never done a show before and I could tell them like hey this has been my experience I could lean into that right well this is what worked for me and over time that turned into one thing that turned into a bigger thing that turned into a bigger thing that turned into coaching that turned into getting paid for answering questions that turned into a podcast that I got paid for that turned into this yeah you know a podcast you don't get paid for yeah yeah yeah we do but it was one of those things that like I didn't know anywhere where this was going to go but I did have that faith and I leaned into that too and I said okay I don't know where this is going to go but I'm just going to keep answering these questions and it kept growing and I think of a guy that I'm working with now who is a very good bodybuilder he has potential to be pro and he's a hard worker by the way he's got a full-time job and he wants to get more involved with the industry side of things he doesn't need to the dude's making more money than he's ever could make in bodybuilding right now but his job is physically difficult he's got to climb poles go down holes all sorts of shit and get all his food in at the same time um but if he wants to get more involved he said he was like man I you know I've got all this experience and everything and I you know want to share he needs to post and he needs to post like it's his full-time job like he needs to get that out there Ron you know like how many people would you guys take on mutant if they didn't have you know a bunch of followers already first question you know what I'm saying like like you got it you got to treat it Scott that was like hey how do I get it and I first question I one answer one thing I said how many followers do you have and until he answered that I didn't need to give him any other information yeah because and so you have to already be that person you know in order to get that so I I could do what I'm going to do regardless of you know where the money is going to come from because the money is going to come from somewhere you know I'm just going to keep doing it yeah the cart before the horse is a problem and I don't want to go on about generational stuff there's always been people who are like that sure but it it really is like you're you're thinking about the Super Bowl and you're not in college yet and you're playing right like you're playing high school ball and you're talking about like being drafted like you're way you're way way off where your reality is like you know a lot of people need that wake-up call too um and also too like I think you know like I think we've told people you know dream big because like yeah yeah yeah yeah I get it dream big but I think the message got distorted it's it's supposed to be like dream big but set small incremental achievable goals right like that's the sub the subtext yeah  So when I hear some, like, I think we talk about salt time pro cards or whatever, I'm like, get that out of your head, think about winning this regional show, like, yeah, you know that, and, and, and it's not that I'm crushing their dreams, it's just, that's how it's done. Yeah, that's what you do. You have to do that to do the other thing. You have to brick, brick, brick, brick, brick, brick, brick, brick, you know, you have to do that. Or maybe it's even like, build the level of muscle it takes to enter a show. Yeah, yeah, even just like, like, like, let's just focus on the level of muscle, you have to enter a show. Focus on getting your arm to 19 inches, like, like, yeah, like, like, just do that for like a while. Like how Ed Conner said, like, guys thought they weren't big enough, and he taped their arm. He's like, look, you're big enough. Yeah. Like, there's a fact, your arm's 21, you're big, you know? So you say, yeah, the reality, the reality is, you know, it takes a lot of bricks and a lot of small achievable goals, and I think some people get off that. Um, they always have, but I think now it's a little bit more of a problem just with, you know, you know, instant gratification and everything, but, you know, everybody wants everything real quick, and, you know, you see other people turn pro, and, like, two, two, two shows, and they're like, why can't I do that? I'm like, well, you're not Bo Jackson. Yeah, you picked the wrong parents. It happens. Yeah, yeah. So did I. It's, um, it's hard. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I liked your, Scott, because, um, it, I'm not obviously a religious guy, but like one of my favorite religious quotes is, uh, if you want to hear God laugh, tell him your plan. And, and that's how I look at life. Like, when you get older, you look back, and you realize why everything worked out the way it did to put you where you're supposed to be. Yeah. Because like you said, you got done with photography. You had no plan. You just started doing, and then things presented themselves. And now it's like, oh, all of that led here. And that's why. And I feel like part of the issue that a lot of people have is they have this set in stone plan of what they're going to do and how they're going to do it. And I'm all for like setting a goal and running towards it. But, you know, you, you got to kind of see how the, how the, how the tide is moving and make some adjustments along the way. And you might find yourself right where you need to be. You know, there's, there's, there's great strength coaches in the NCAA that wanted to be playing college or pro football, but the world let them down there. And now they're making 300 grand a year coaching better players on how to make it to the NFL. I don't think that they failed on their goal. It just didn't go quite the way they had hoped, you know? Yeah. I, I really liked this next one. A lot of people have problems with this and it's not a bodybuilding thing. It's like an everyone thing. What are some, what are the best ways to build real confidence for people that lack confidence? Scott, you don't get to go last buddy. I like just calling it out, man. Yeah. I'm, I'm, I'm sending one to you guys too, that I got from a Patreon. I want to see what you guys think about this one later, man. How to, how to build real confidence. I, I don't know. I, I just, I don't, I don't, I don't feel that I'm, I don't see myself as somebody who I don't try. You know what I mean? Does that make sense? I just do it. Yeah, man. I just let the world float by. I don't try. I just saw his hair get long and blonde. Yeah. I just saw Matthew McConaughey leave out the window of the car. I don't try, honey. I don't need to try. I don't, I don't know this reference, but I think I like it. I think it's favorable for me. I'll take it. We just heard you Matthew McConaughey. It cannot be bad. You know, sounds good, baby. Just get in. Yeah. No, I, you know, I think about it though. Like if I would have thought about, okay, so like meeting Victoria and deciding like, yeah, I'm going to, I'm going to hit on this girl. Like I'm going to bat way out of my league. I like it. Yeah. We all did. It's fine. Oh, 170 IQ. Let me see if I can get this one. Yeah. If I would have put a lot of thought into that, if you would have worried about your grammar on your first sentence or whether, yeah, I wouldn't have gotten anywhere. You know what I mean? But I was like, yeah, no, I'm just going to be me and we're going to see how this goes. And I'm not going to, you know, I'm, I'm not going to worry about it either way. Turns out she was really used to dealing with normies. She's friends with us. She's friends with lots of regular people. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it worked out though. But like, seriously, I could have talked myself out of asking her out. Like I really could have, if I would have put too much thought into it. So my thought is, is like, man, I don't even know what the advice would be. Maybe you guys have a parable for all of that. Take, take, take calculated risks. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. Right. I, I, I, I think, well, is Dusty next? Dusty's next. I'm going last on this one. Oh, you're going. He's just jumping. See, I see what he's doing. I was trying to save. Um, so I've always struggled with this, but Nikki and I talk about weird shit all the time. And this is one of the things we talked about before. And I think that building confidence comes from failing and then moving forward and then maybe failing again and then succeeding and then having a different success and then having another failure. And just starting to get to the point that you realize that whatever happens, it'll work out. You'll work it out. You know, I think that a lot of people get the reason I have confidence is because they don't have the confidence in what they will do if it doesn't work, you know, and once you've had enough failures that you've bounced back from, I think you start to realize that it's all going to work out anyway. So why would you not become? Yeah. It's not as big of a deal, you know, like anything that gets, it's funny because after my laundry list, Ron's known me a long time of a bad decision and failures, I don't like nothing literally worries me when it comes up. I'm like, oh, it'll work. I'll get it. Like, it doesn't really matter what it is. I'm like, I can do this. And maybe it isn't to the degree that I thought when I arrogantly said I can do this, but it all kind of works out. And I just think that that and coupled with the idea that they're worried about what other people will think if they don't achieve what they're trying to do, which I think is something that just slows people down because I like to remind people every day that no one gives a shit about you. Yeah. I know you, I know you think you're the center of the universe. I know. But you're not. Like, when you're really successful and you nail something, they care for like a second. And when you blow it, they care for two seconds. Hadn't we talked about Jay Cutler, like in all the, because Jay's been super successful. And when we think of Jay, we think of like, he's like the blueprint for being a successful bodybuilder. But hasn't he had a lot of other things that he's done? He's talked about. He told us about a bunch of them. Yeah. That's what I thought. Like he's gotten into things that like just didn't work out. I have a friend of mine that said, you'll know you're a businessman when you have a business fail while you're eating breakfast and you just finish your coffee. And I was like, wow. Okay. He's like, yeah. I know a guy he said he's had, but he's, I've had as many businesses fail as I've had succeed. Because I've opened, I've opened businesses and six months later, shut them down. He's like, but I've opened businesses and made millions of dollars from them. So, and you just move on. Like you just literally go, okay. Yep. Yeah. And you're just done. And, um, I think that's something I'm good at, um, is, uh, moving on. I'm good at moving on. Like that's over. Okay. And it's a little savage, but I don't know if I learned that from someone or it's just, I have it, but, um, I think building confidence, the number one thing is stacking small wins, which is what I talked about earlier. But that's, that's literally what psychologists say. Like, you know, someone has confidence problems. It's like, just, just set one little goal and then achieve it. Now that's good. Take home advice. Yeah. Like the, he got the, the anchor spot here. Yeah. Like the third answer. Yeah. And look at, look at it. That was like something we can all take home. It is. It's like, if, if you, if you, if you go to like, if you try to get someone to help you with confidence, the first thing they will do like a professional is they'll be like, you need to stack some small wins. Right. You need to get some small wins. And that's what the log book was all about for me when I was young. And, and also every other little thing I did, I think back to like when I rode BMX as a kid, when I freestyle skied, like when I did those things, it would be like, like, I remember standing looking down the mountain at like a lip that was like a 10 foot drop. And I remember thinking like, okay, I'm going to send this, I'm going to do a 360 off of this. And I'm just going to have to try to spin the right speed so I can land it. You were that good to do stuff like that on skis, huh? Yeah. I could do backflips. We used to build backflip jumps. I skied moguls. Okay. So, um, I'd be like, Hey, I'm just going to send this. And I had some crashes, but then you land one in front of everyone. And, uh, you're the man at the chalet. You're this 15 year old kid that's pulling these tricks and you walk into the chalet and all the older skiers are like, Hey, you know, like that's what I experienced as a kid. And that, that just, you're like, ah, I can send it. I can send it. And it, and when it, when it fails, it's entertaining cause you crash hard. But everyone, no one, everyone's like, ah, he went for it and they're scared to go for it. So you win either way. Yeah. You win, you win if you fail because you had the guts to do it and you know that. And then if you, you, you land it, you really win. And, and I don't know, I just, I think of all those little, little things I did when I was young to build confidence and stack those little wins. And then of course the log book comes into it and, and it's just, yeah, I remember my last prep. I was banged up. I had lots of injuries. My knee was really bad. My quad hadn't torn yet, but that tendon was fucking sore all the time. And it was hard for me.  COMPLakeable COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL, COMPL CO be my rack dead if i can just do five sets of five with 500 this like super low rack for the whole prep every week i can say like okay i kept my strength and i did that i remember the first day i didn't get it was two weeks out and i remember just being like okay i made it like right i'm close enough that i can say i made it you know and that confidence just another goal like four months of rack deading that every week and getting it and it's those types of things really build build your confidence you know and another another thing you can do to build confidence is improve competence in something that you care about that's another thing that people will will tell you so what's you have to find something in your life that you care about like could be anything could be learning guitar or it could be taking care of your dog or something like that if you can improve your competence at that thing if you can say you know what i'm gonna like i'm gonna make more of a schedule for what i do and i'm gonna actually make sure i get better at it once that starts to happen it's a snowball and you realize like a lot of people just don't realize they can do anything like you know like oh i could never learn piano yeah you could yeah you could it starts with learning c chord and it goes and then you're getting then you know within two weeks you have both hands going and then like it you can you can do anything these overwhelming tasks are just little tiny bricks and you have to realize that and take take that apart and realize that you know you can do anything and when you start to to go for that sort of stuff and you start to try to improve your competence in things that you care about it's super rewarding and it wakes people up i see people i've seen people wake up out of like a 20 year stupor of not thinking they could learn anything new you know you can't teach an old dog new tricks yeah he can i know A-50 year old guy that just bought a guitar you know what i mean first time ever he's learning the g he's like holy crap i just learned a g chord you know but that that's going to change that guy's life because he hasn't accomplished anything new in like 20 years you know and all of a sudden his brain is like oh wait i'm gonna do something new and it's just been awesome for him so and then another thing that people do that kills their confidence is um is exposed exposure to fear like you know if someone has a phobia of elevators and they're terrified of elevators what people what the therapist will do is they'll just take them one foot closer to an elevator every day right until they can stand in front of an open elevator and watch the door open and then watch the door close and they're not as scared of elevators like this is a real thing and and and so exposure to your fears so if you have you know fears of something identify it and then force yourself exposure like man i'm afraid to go to that place go to that place you have to go like you you know what i mean and when people start to break down and realize how irrational their fears are because most fears are completely and utterly irrational when you start to break through fears you start to realize oh this is all these limits i've set up for myself are just completely fraudulent and and i think that that's important like exposing yourself to what are you laughing at dusty you made me you made me laugh because i was so i've never had any issues with space you know as far as um confined space or anything like that oh claustrophobia you mean like small spaces okay but when i was in my coma they had me because i was lashing out they had me strapped down and my body temperature was up so they had me in ice to like keep my body temperature down oh you mean when you were dying yeah yeah that part yeah and uh so i get out of the coma life's normal whatever and i need to go get my uh i need to get an mri on my shoulder i'm like dude to do like always i've done this before i hop in the machine it literally backs in and stops i'm like beep get me out pulls me back out and i'm like what is going on no kidding and i'm not as big as i used to be either at this point so i'm like i've jammed myself in this thing before you know so the lady's like you need a minute i'm like no i need a day like i had to leave i had made an appointment i found a machine that was like a basically like a like a sandwich press that they could just put you in so you're not in the machine i was like i'm going there i drove an hour and a half to get to this machine i was too big for that also so now i'm in there and the lady's like what are you going to do i'm like put me in the machine put me in the normal one and i just go in and i literally as i'm doing it i'm like this is so ridiculous there's a button i'm not in a cave yeah i'm not in trouble but it's really bothering me and i just had to sit there and deal with it and i was just like don't be a bitch and i like it was funny to me because i didn't understand why this was an issue it's never bothered me in my entire life and you know 45 minutes later i come out of the machine and i was like that was so ridiculous i mean i i left and drove an hour and a half to try to avoid this stupid machine that i knew i wasn't gonna die in yeah yeah but couldn't get past like you said ron just the complete ridiculousness of it it's like it's like you know there's a lot of fears that at least could be somewhat justifiable like you know if you're standing on a ledge and there's a 26 story drop like yeah if you fall you're you're done i was afraid of a machine with a button and four doctors staring at me yeah yeah yeah ridiculous but uh but yeah it was one of those things like you said i was just like well i have to get this done so we're just doing it today and funny enough even though it was so ridiculous in the first place i felt like a champ when i left i'm like i beat that thing yeah yes you overcame it yeah i've been through the same thing i'm like the biggest puss thing i've ever done i overcame so i'm a man again and she's like not really get home yeah no the women never give you the credit no no hey let me throw this one in here guys this is from patreon and uh i wanted to get your take on it he said uh um and he said he'd love to get our takes uh what do you guys think about competitors who enter multiple local shows in a single season rack up several overall wins but never move on to nationals for example there's a local coach or look excuse me a local athlete actually actually he's a client of a well-known coach that you guys have had on your program who's qualified four times this year including three overall titles in bodybuilding it raises two questions why peak four separate times between may and november and why not challenge yourself and go to the next level do you guys see this as dedication strategy or maybe is it just trophy hunting well i've got an answer but i'm gonna wait huh people used to really be against this at least here in michigan years ago yeah i know if you qualified they're like you would be considered a trophy hunter if you didn't just even another show in the state right see it's kind of funny because i you know the years i competed you couldn't really do that because there was only like two qualifying shows to go to the next level and then one to go to nationals so it's like there wasn't like all this because it used to be a different system in canada you couldn't just fly all over the country and do every regional but you can now with the npc system so we see it here too um you know i don't know i got hey man i've got masters guys that are like hey i don't want to go to nationals i'm just gonna get killed but there's another show in kentucky i'm gonna go see how i do in that 40 plus you know like they might have won the previous one so i never really thought about it much but i haven't really dealt with someone who like kind of was habitually doing it to the point where it was weird do you know what i mean like i haven't really had any clients do that um i would say it's you know it depends if it's a masters guy or something i don't know that kind of changes it maybe he doesn't he just doesn't want to go to the next level i don't know i i guess it's trophy hunting in a way but i don't really care is that an answer i don't really care i don't really care who wins regional shows i don't know good for you i don't know what's your answer dusty i think this is something that uh that i had to work through with every aspect of life you have to remember that your goal is not necessarily someone else's goal yeah so like for me i just wanted to qualify and go to the next level because i wanted to go to the next level and then i wanted to win there and i wanted to win the next one and yeah on and on um you know i mean i have two overall trophies because i only after i did my first show i only did two shows that i needed to qualify ever yeah so but i and i i had zero value in those wins i didn't care they were just to get me to the next level they meant nothing i mean literally the trophies didn't come home i'm like here mom bye i don't need this um but now i look and i say who cares like maybe this guy's thing is that he you  Oh, heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard heard the same thing i would say for the next level if you're mad about it beat him yeah hey i've got a guy who's uh natural natural dude does untested shows i helped him for like probably 10 shows i don't know how many that's always a badass move yeah yeah but he's like he's like flying all over the place doing like he went all the way to ontario did fu ads show he went down to denver did a show down there but he's he's doing untested shows and sometimes he's winning classes he's coming home with class wins and but he's right heads everywhere yeah but he's not going to nationals because he knows he's like yeah i'm he's like at nationals i'm a natty guy yeah standing with like a bunch of you know guys that are eight inches shorter than me at the same weight you know or whatever i think he's he's does classic but whatever um so he uh he's just like having as much as he can building a coaching business traveling around looking great at every show um so like that's fine that's fine beat these guys if you're so worried about him beat them yeah i mean that's the best way to look at it is it sounds like that's something that is annoying people like because he's saying it's not just him a lot of people are asking about it yeah and to me it's simple then i would say if if i'm a guy who does want to get to the next level i'd go cool well while he's dieting for three more shows i'll be in the offseason and when he has his first show next year it's going to be his first loss to me yeah right that's the goal that's a great goal that's a great goal i love i mean if you're planning on going to the next level if he moved up you'd have to beat him then anyways yeah so just get it out of the way early and don't worry about what drives someone else um because kind of like what you were saying earlier ron you're expending energy worrying about what he's doing instead of just putting that energy in what you should be doing you know i think it depends i think it would depend on the situation if i pictured this guy who's like obviously national level guy and he's just going around collecting trophies at every show levels above everybody else right like he's not even in shape he's just crushing wins right yeah he's like five weeks out crushing if it were that guy then i'd say like get out of here you know what i mean 270 yeah you're going to nationals yeah yeah yeah the thing that sucks it's usually not that guy though no it's not it's not normally no in that in that situation i mean because i can say this from when i had to requalify one time if if you really don't care like it's embarrassing to go to a show that you're gonna win and you you're thinking i'm taking this away from somebody who really wants it and i don't care like i'm literally here to get my qualification because i screwed up at nationals and i got to do this again um i mean when i did i did the nationals or yeah 2011 i had to requalify and i did the uh the excalibur i think it was like five weeks later i didn't stay on my diet i just went into my offseason went to the excalibur and this is going to sound terrible but thankfully i only won my class because i i think back to when i was getting ready for my first overall and that was my olympia yeah and i would have hated for a guy who just needed to qualify to come beat me because he was just way better than me at that point but again that's just the way i look at it someone else might be like hey if i'm a true national level guy i'm gonna come in and smoke all of you and look like the guest poser and i wouldn't be mad at him for that either no you know it's just how you how you look at what you're doing you know because like i mean imagine this at this point i had like a big following was all over the place i'm backstage and guys like are you guest posing i'm like sorry this is uncomfortable i know i'm gonna beat you you know i'm not even dieting yeah so it's um you know it's just stepping back and remembering that not everybody has the same goals they don't all look at it the same i mean there's guys that if i were to tell that story to they'd either say a bullshit you were afraid you couldn't win that show or b why even bother going if you're not going to dust everybody you know so right it's just your take but it's a good question but uh i really hope that uh he takes that push and just says cool my goal is to beat john that's going to do this show next year right i love a good gym rivalry yeah like i i mean it's hard now everyone trains at different gyms now like the old the old monoculture there was like you know i remember a point where everyone trained everyone who competed almost trained at the same gym in the city i lived in right so there's like gym rivalries you're like that guy beat that guy at provincials last year but that guy is squatting five plates now we're gonna see what happens and there was a lot more like it was fun like i we don't really have it now people train all over the place you know what i mean yeah but uh i love a good gym rivalry back in the day those were fun and i had them myself too i had them myself like and you know you know those guys they're kind of your frenemies oh man hey ron how's it going you're like pretty good how's your training going pretty good good to see you yeah you know yeah you're doing you're doing nationals that drives you to train hard though right like oh yeah to me you hear people who say the opposite of the thing they're like oh competition why would you want to do that it's just a plastic trophy but i'll tell you what by getting into competition and having guys like that in your head and you're like hey i know he's gonna be there oh yeah that's gonna push me to train harder and be the absolute best that i can having that catalyst outside of yourself it really does push you to dig deeper and it makes you really the best bodybuilder you can be you know i remember i remember getting uh like the muscle mag i can't remember what a good day it was and you know you open it and all the muscle tech ads inside back in the day and i remember there was a guy named mike platts and he was like the prettiest physique in the country and he was he got a muscle tech sponsorship he was from ontario he had like the perfect abs he he was like he he had a beautiful physique kind of looked like um well as pretty as you can get so i kind of looked like a what an olympia classic guy like that sort of physique now yeah yeah but it was a super heavyweight and and he was like 235 at 510 but just perfect physique and i remember looking at the muscle tech ads and knowing that i was going to my first nationals and he was going to be there and he was going to be there and i remember looking at his midsection and doing crunches and leg raises and looking at that muscle tech ads and being like i got to be ready for this dude so when i get to nationals my first time and um or my section was my second nationals i get to my second nationals and they do you know first call out and it's him scott milne and me they're like oh but that that he beat he beat me and won his pro card but the confidence i'm like ah i'm in the group i'm in the call out let's go this is a guy of the muscle tech ads this is the guy who's supposed to win this show easy and i'm getting put next to him and called out with him and like that i remember coming home with like a third that year i think i can't remember and just being like on cloud nine i'm like oh yeah i'm in all the pictures with him doing his call outs i'm in right you know what i mean that was like a victory you know and i don't know he'll get a guy everything is so great though because i don't even know if i've told you guys this but uh uh john ward who's a longtime friend oh john great um yeah yeah so in actually he's moving to arizona by the way but uh anyhow um he uh he beat me at the 2014 usa's and he'd never beaten me before okay he got second i got third and i highly disagreed with that okay and uh so after the show he was in arizona and i was doing the north americans and i said you need to do north americans and he was like what and i was like dude you're already in shape the only guy that beat you is gone now you need to come to north americans because i plan to win and don't worry about me i was third yeah and uh and he did and uh i beat him and turned pro but the point was is i wanted him to come yeah because i'm like you just beat me for the first time ever and i don't think you should have and i think i could prove that and you think you should have and you can prove it and we're friends so i think we should do this you know and it was fun i mean i i was so happy that that he was like all right i'm in we're going you know and uh and it just made it like you said ron it made a little more fun because i'm like i know he's coming going you i'm i'm definitely finishing this thing off and i was like i'm avenging the bullshit you know what too like at the state level there were guys that i would run into them compete against them and i might not ever see him again you know because it's not like we're all coming back to the same show to fight for a pro card but i remember one guy dan strudgen who won the class i can't remember if he won the overall but he beat me he beat me by like two places so it's not like i was about to beat him but i remembered thinking like okay so dan was the guy to beat in my class and if i'm ever going to win this class i need to be able to beat a guy that looks like dan for like the whole next year i just because i knew what he looked like and i had it in my head and i was like i got to get my back better got to grow my legs dan has those legs and so dan kind of was in the back of my head through a lot of my training never saw him again for like that whole year right but then i did run into him like a year later and  and I told him, I told him to be the same, dude, I was like, dude, you know, you know, we competed, blah, blah, blah, blah. I was like, I've been thinking about you, man. I've been thinking about you, man. I've been thinking I want to beat you specifically, you know, to give me motivation. We ended up becoming good friends. I ended up coaching him. He ended up getting up getting good friends. I ended up coaching him. He ended up winning again with my help. Because he the thing was, is I had better conditioning. Like I could really get nasty peeled, you know, but he had much more size and really pretty shape too. So it was super cool to get to eventually work with him and like kind of put our heads together. Right. But it was one of those things, man, where like, Because of Dan, I rose to be a better bodybuilder, even though we never competed again. You know? Yeah. Well, I've got a good story because I had a guy message me on Instagram. I actually just tried to find it, but I can't get it to come up in a search. But he messaged me and I recognized his name. And I was like, oh, where do I know his name from? And he's like, hey, I did the Super Heavies in 2007. And I was like, oh, shit, because that was a year I won the Supers, but I didn't win the overall. But I beat Ben Bikulski. He got second. Yeah. So it was like vicious class. There was like 30 guys in the Supers. And he said, he goes, he said, hey, you know, I remember it was my first Nationals. And I went to prejudging. And I saw you and Ben backstage. Because a lot of guys are like staying covered up and sitting in the corner. But I'd been there a bunch of times already. It was like my sixth time there. So I was stripped right down, oiled up, glazed early, posing, getting ready, standing under the light, you know, walking around, getting ready. I was like ready early. And he was like, I saw you and Ben. And I actually packed up to leave. You're kidding. He said, I packed up to leave. I was like, I'm wasting my fucking time. He said he went to weigh-ins and he was crushed. His spirit was crushed at weigh-ins. But he was like going to do it. And then he came to the next day and he was like, I'm going to be in the back 10 of 30. Like he was pretty, pretty, you know, distant or what's it called? Discouraged. And he said he started packing up to leave. And then he thought, I can't leave. I've got to finish this. I've got to finish this. And he made himself like go through with it. And, you know, he wound up getting slightly better call-outs than he thought, I guess. And, you know, they looked at him and he was part of, he was posing and everything. And then he said afterwards, he looks back on not leaving that show as like a pinnacle moment in his life. Because he almost quit. He almost did that prep for that whole time and then didn't go on stage. Okay. And he wound up making himself, he had to have a talk to himself. I've got to finish this. I'm going to go get killed. I shouldn't even be here. But I've got to go out there on the stage. I came all the way here. And he just was like telling me a funny story. And I was just like, wow, it's amazing. That's awesome. Because, like, obviously I don't remember. I never talked to him at the show or anything. But I recognized his name. I was like, oh, I think I competed against that guy. And it was just a cool story. I was like, wow. Because, you know, you don't see yourself that way. Right? Like the day of the show, I wasn't thinking like, oh, there's people looking at me that want to leave. I didn't cross my mind. I'm looking at Ben. I'm looking at Ben going, look at that fucking guy's legs. Because Pekulski's legs, I'm telling you, before, like, day one, his legs were insane. Oh, I bet they were. I was like, this guy might beat me just on his quads. Like, shit. And I was like, very. But I'm not thinking of the other guys, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, like Dan, he didn't know that I was thinking of him that whole time. You know what I mean? No. And I think that you realize then kind of the benefit that you give to other people. There's something reward. Like, you probably felt pretty good about that, knowing that you had helped somebody else out. It was neat because I look back on a lot of my competing. Like, I don't mean to. But I look back on it as like, ah, it could have been better that show. It could have been better that show. It could have been better. You know what I mean? Like, we're so, you know, even the shows people are like, you looked awesome at that show. I was like, ah, it could have been better. Like, we don't give ourselves much of that, you know? And so when you hear it from somebody else's perspective, the way they viewed the world, you're like. Perspective is everything. Yeah, it is, you know? And it's interesting. It reminds you that, like, you know, I think it's important for people to, in various ways, take a moment to question whether their worldview is accurate occasionally. Like, you know, like people get really, really caught up in their politics now. And there's moments where I make sure to give myself a moment. Like, are my politics, is this an emotional thing I'm thinking? Is this, or is this, you know, like, it's good to just question and challenge things that go through your brain. Hey, check this out. I had to see what Mike Platt's looked like. Here's when he made the cover of Muscle. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Mike Platt. He was a good bodybuilder, man. He was a good bodybuilder. He looked good. But you know what I mean? Like, see the midsection on him? Like, he looked good. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he had a very pretty look. Oh, yeah. He was a tall guy, too. He was like a mini Lebroni, you know? Like, the crazy X, you know, beautiful quads, tiny waist. Like, just, he was the guy where, like, you're standing in a room of 20 bodybuilders, and you're like, oh, that guy's a huge problem. Set him aside. Like, immediately. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, very clear. 2002, that was, by the way. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah? No, man. The good old days. Yeah, the good old days. I miss magazines. I don't care what everybody says. No, no. Let's do one more here. Yeah. If you weren't pushing to become a pro bodybuilder, but wanted to still have a great physique, are there any drugs you wouldn't use because of their detrimental or possible health effects? Absolutely, yes. There's a whole list of them. Go ahead. Rod's like, where should I start? I took way too much clenbuterol. Okay. And now we know that, like, you know, probably not the best idea. Clen's very useful, but, like, we know now, like, you can use way less of it. Like, you guys now are using, I mean, I don't know how much clenbuterol you guys have experience with, but, like, my generation, we did not understand anything bad about clenbuterol. It was, like, candy. My hands aren't shaking. I'm fine. Dude. If they stop shaking, you take more. You just up it. I remember taking 300 micrograms a day. Oh. 300. Oh, my gosh. For, like, a couple of weeks. I don't know how you manage that. A couple of weeks straight. Oh, my God. You're like, you're going to gas this shit. But that's why we were peeled out of our fucking minds. Because you were dying. We were, like, 2,500 calories and 200 micrograms of clen for a week. Let's just see what happens. Yeah. And it's probably so dumb. That is so much. Yeah, that's a lot of clen. I remember going to 300 for, like, a while. The highest I've ever, like, the highest I take clients is 80. Yeah. Yeah. I try to get away with 50. I'm, like, that's going on and off of it. Yeah. Like, 80. Oh, my God. Yeah, yeah. Of 300. That's amazing. And, you know, clen's not great for the heart long term. We should try to minimize clen. Especially in those doses. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, and that wasn't, like, long term. But it was a couple of weeks at a time at the end of prep. Like, I'd gas hard on the clen and it was not good. Yeah. And you know what? I don't know. You're looking like Michael J. Fox. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I didn't mean to shake your soda up. Yeah. Don't. You had lids on all your drinks, didn't you? Don't open this up. Yeah. Yeah. And then you wonder, like, I'm having sleep problems. That's weird. Duh. It's just a prep. Just a prep. Just a sit. Yeah, you're just hungry. Yeah, you're just hungry. So, yeah. I think that's one. And then Tren Balone. Like, there's, I don't think there's, there's no reason for anyone to use Tren at all unless they're doing something extremely serious with their physique. That's my opinion. Yeah. No, I think, I mean, I agree with, I agree with everything you say, especially the clean you psychopath. I wasn't psycho. I was dumb. But I think the only, the only part that I, I guess I play devil's advocate with myself is, is I have a hard time telling someone that they shouldn't do something because their goal isn't as serious as my goal. I agree with that too. Yes. You know what I'm saying? And so, so to me, I'm like, I'm torn. Everyone should look at the situation. Say, I mean, same thing if you're, if you're trying to be a great bodybuilder and just say like, let's not pretend that Tren's good for you. Let's be really open on what it can do and then make a decision. Because if you are meant to be a pro bodybuilder, you could do it without Tren. Oh yeah. It's not a magical drug. No. Um, so with that said, if it's something you want to do because you want to take your physique to a higher level, cause you want to look good on the beach, do your thing. Um, same thing if you're trying to turn pro or win the Olympia, but don't, don't pretend that, uh, your health alters the effects of the drug because your goal was bigger. Yeah, that's yeah, that's true. You know what I mean? So I think as long as you're paying attention to those things, you should do your research. Like you said, Ron, make sure that you are well, very, very well versed in what you're doing. Understand what the, what the risks are that come with the rewards that you're trying to get and then make a decision. Um, but that's the, the biggest thing to me is just really looking at that and making choices because I think that most people who use these drugs think nothing of them other than it's faster. Hmm. Right.  cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy cy And what I said was we were also diving really crazy hard and like trying to suffer as much as possible. Like, so that's why. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think you nailed it, Scott. And so did the listeners. Like it's, there is no correct. I mean, if we were all worried about health, we'd be doing half the shit we're doing. But at least make sure that you're well versed in the same thing goes with competitors. I mean, the amount of clients that I have that will say, hey, and I could tell in an email they're uncomfortable. That tone. Hey. And then they ask a really basic question about what something does. And I'm like, oh, this is what it does. This is what's good. This is what's bad. Do you want to do it or no? Like, if you don't feel like you can ask your coach or chat GPT these questions before making a decision, then you need to slow down. You know? Yeah, yeah. Because I 100%, I mean, if I do anything, I do it at an obsessive level. Even if it's just for myself. Yeah, yeah. You know what I mean? So I have no issue with someone. I don't think, I hate when I've heard people say, it's not as much as anymore, but in the past I'd be like, you're not a bodybuilder if you don't compete. I'm like, bullshit. You're just not a competitive bodybuilder. Yeah. You know? So same thing goes with this. But, you know, I think that everyone should pay a little more attention. Because I'll be the first to admit that when I was younger, when it was written on the planet, I'm like, got it, 300 milligrams. Yeah. Not a single thought. Oh, sorry. That's a title. Perfect. Yeah. I meant 30. 30. I meant 30. Yeah. But yeah, that's good. Solid. We got one more here I want to hit. Okay. Because it's relevant to me. Yes. It's all about me, boys. Ron, the world. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. How do you suggest clients deal with preparing for time away from the gym because of a pending surgery? Oh, and this one is actually one I want an answer to because it's very important to a client. So for those of you not up to speed, not that you need to know my business. You should, though. I get my new hip this Friday in Montreal. You're new. Yep. I'm going private because I can't wait any longer. They'd have you wait until you die. Yeah. Canada wants me. Canada apparently thinks I'm not urgent yet because I'm not on opiates. They're like, oh, you're not even on opiates? Oh, you can wait. You got plenty of time. Yeah. We need you to be like kind of having, we need you to develop a problem with opiates and then we'll help you. So it's been pretty frustrating. And that's not the whole story, but I'm paraphrasing. That's the fun part. That's the fun part. I'm going to wait for another year if I want the free one. So I got to go private, getting an NFL hip, as my surgeon told me. He said, you're going to get the best possible hip. So I'm very excited. And I know that the anterior hip replacement where they go in through the front is extremely fast recovery compared to any other surgeries that people think of. So I'm not worried at all, but I've been through other surgeries like, you know, my quad reattached and that sort of thing. And I think that it's just all about your perspective. Like the last time I had to quit training for a while because of something like that, I just always focused on like, oh, this is going to be so good for all my joints. This is going to be really good for me to just dial back my food and just my body could probably really use a month of just being a normal person. I'm going to eat three times a day. I'm just going to relax. I'll just not worry about it. This is going to be so fruitful for my mental stack. I just really tried to, you have to set the narrative. Like you control the narrative. It's just like when you, you're doing anything, it's the story you tell yourself in your head. Like you paint the picture of what this is going to be and it's up to you and you control your own narrative when it comes to this time off and this surgery and your recovery. And, you know, it's, um, it's all in your hands. And if, if you don't, if you allow the narrative to be controlled by your emotions, like, oh, I can't train. I'm going to shrink. And none of the facts change. Yeah. Like none of the facts change. You are about to have surgery. You are not going to train for a month. Your arm is going to be in a sling or whatever you're going through. Paint the, paint your own narrative. Say, you know, like, so I would say like, like, you know, there's going to be a recovery period for me. I'm going to have to do an empty leg press for a couple of weeks and not, you know what I mean? And I can't get on my bike for eight weeks after my surgery. I got to get that bone really heal up around that implant, you know? But I'm just going to think like, hey, I'm going to work on other things. Like I can't get on my bike, but I, but at the four week part, I can start doing some footwork drills. See what I mean? That, that's, that'll, that's going to carry over to when I get back on my bike. I got my footwork drills already going. My feet are moving. I'm not, you know, you, you control your narrative and that's something that is really important. And it doesn't just reflect on, doesn't just apply to the surgery and the time off or forced time off or whatever we're talking about. It applies to everything you do. You have to tell yourself what your narrative is going to be and you follow it and you make it, you know, make it your, your mentality and your perspective. So. I like that. Agreed. Scott. Gosh, I don't really have much more I can add to that. I just, I think that's a great perspective to have. It sounds like, you know, if you're going into something that you're not going to be able to change. You know, I like the idea, like just in general of if you're taking time off and, you know, because more frequently than somebody having surgery, I'll run into somebody that needs to do a deload. Right. And I think that we can forget, especially when we, when training is a big part of our lives, we have a lot of other stuff that we can do. I think that it's easy for us to, whether we want to or not kind of become two dimensional with bodybuilding because it is, we keep it real simple, right? Like we prep our food. We, we train. We like, this is what we do. This is what our world revolves around it. I liked the idea of saying to myself, like, well, what are the other things I can do with this downtime? You know, and be it a surgery, be it like a week off from the gym. Um, are there things that maybe I've been neglecting around the house that need to get taken care of? You know, number one, number two, are there other fun things that I enjoy doing with my life outside of lifting weights? I don't have time for usually. Yeah. Yeah. Like this, now's the time that you can embrace that stuff and that the gym is going to be there. And I will tell you firsthand, you know, when I got sick, uh, and, and I didn't get to train hard for a long time, looking back at it, like a year later, my legs were the same size. A year later of not training hard. My legs were the same size. Oh, you know, they, they weren't as good. Right. But it was pretty damn close to what they looked like a year ago of not having trained hard. And at the same time, I'm, I'm wondering to myself before that, like, ah, if I miss this leg workout, I'm afraid that my legs are going to, you know, just, they're not going to, they're not going to get the size. Yeah. They're going to, they're going to shrink on me. Like literally you can take months and months off of anything. Dang. If you've trained hard and you've built muscle, it's not going anywhere. I promise you that. Or it bounces back quickly. Yeah. I mean, that's the, I think the, the, the, the only advice that I give to the situation is based on my own experience. Um, when I had to get a surgery early in my career, I didn't realize I was really dependent on bodybuilding, on going to the gym. Um, and I actually, like, I wasn't worried about it. I went into the surgery, like no big deal. All right. I'm going to have some time away. And then I realized I was depressed and I stopped controlling the things I could control. So my eating went to hell and then I was up too late and just like killing time. And long story short, by the time I could go back to the gym, I was smaller and fatter. Yeah. And I had just put myself in the worst possible position. And then I was like, Oh, well I can train again. So I'll get my shit back together and get back to training. And this is where the story gets good is eight weeks after I was back in the gym. I remember cause the numbers were so locked in. My biggest ever was two 86. Okay. Going into that surgery. I shrunk down to like two 60 and fat. Okay. And eight weeks later I was two 93 and in the same condition I was at two 86. Yeah. My body was like, Oh, thank, thank, thank you. That risk that you forgot was bothering you is now fixed. Right. That other thing that you don't think about is gone and everything was better. So my only regret was that I didn't control the things I could. And then I looked back and I was like, Oh, that might be one of the best things that ever happened in my career was being forced to do something I would never have the discipline to do on my own and stay out of the gym for that long. So yeah. Yeah. But I agree with you, Ron. The narrative is kind of what I pressed as a client of mine is why I added that question. Cause I was like, you're not going to get fat. You're not going to lose a bunch of muscle. And when you do, it bounces back at a rate. I don't think people realize like you said, Scott, I mean, when I came out of the coma, I was two 33. You're not going to lose a bunch. You're not going to lose a bunch. You're not going to lose a bunch.  and needed to the speed from, you know, 40 plus pounds blew my mind, and I was still weak as hell, but my body was like, oh, you've been big before, you've been big before, we'll do that, no problem. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. But this mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo mo by adapting and changing my plan so that it now works with the new circumstances that have arisen that weren't there before right like you know it's like the gary v thing like don't complain about the rules just play the game like you know everyone complains about the rules like the i love the clip where the one kid's asking gary it's an old clip but he's like i want to run a weed delivery service and i've got it all set up and there's an app and everything but it's not legal in this state what can i do and he just goes move to texas you idiot or whatever state colorado he's like go to colorado go to michigan just move the rules change as soon as you move go in that easy and the guy's like well i don't want to move and he's like i don't know what to tell you then yeah i mean well you can't do it right what's important to you then yeah you know you want to win or you know like just fucking just like people who want to eat things that are off plan i'm like okay that's totally fine just keep in mind that like what's your goal is it to reach 190 pounds by the new year or is it to eat this thing with your friend you can have either of them which do you want there's no there's no right or wrong answer there either you know no just determining what's the most important thing i i don't know where i heard it i like to pretend i made it up but that's not the case um but i i repeat it all the time that bodybuilding is one of the most fair things in the world oh yeah because it's so meritocracy based yeah yeah you you get back what you put in it's really that now not you against someone else it's genetically more gifted versus you yeah if you do everything at 100 then you will get the best possible result if you do it at 80 then you won't yeah like yeah and it showed in a week-to-week basis which is great because i deal with a lot of like the majority of my clients are actually gen pop and it's great because when they have an off week i go see we're not we're not it's not over but i want you to see do you see what happened to your results when you had an off week cool now if you give me a result or a week that's better i can guarantee you better results and if you can give me a week that's perfect i can guarantee you the best results and then they do it and then i'm like see now the question is is the winning worth it right yeah you know yeah simple so i love that aspect of bodybuilding i wanted to uh i wasn't paying attention i didn't have the little window open oh you lose right yeah i just i just saw there was a lot of chat i added the one guy goes wasn't roman fritz squatting after four weeks post hip replacement and i was like yeah but then he needed another hip didn't you have to have him done twice didn't he have both hips done twice i can't remember what roman told us yeah addict yeah so and you know what i mean um i think he went back a little fast and then uh and and then uh um the one guy said being in the spotlight in front of large crowds was my biggest irrational fear on earth but standing on a bodybuilding stage and a thong cured me of that and that's that's the exposure i was talking about right they're getting closer to the elevator closer to your phobia or whatever it is you know and uh pretty soon the someone can inch out on stage in front of a few hundred people and you're like oh this isn't so bad i survived just so you know that speaking on stage bill oh it's it's you're supposed to think of the crowd naked you're not supposed to get naked yeah yeah you did it backwards yeah i mean it worked for you bill i'm not arguing but i'm just saying there's an easier way yeah yeah no i i i love that people were were chatting here i i missed a lot of this so you didn't love it enough to watch but here we are yeah i missed out i missed out i love following the chat i even answered the chat i don't think scott actually told us he was going live no he did you said listen i have that habit okay uh so what are we doing guys is that it we wrapped it i think we're good that's solid um so yeah oh one more thing i want to say and i don't want to take this isn't my little own little minute but my app is live i've got some people on it now i've got ads my ads are running soon how do we find that yes trainlikehell.com okay go to trainlikehell.com you sign up choose a package and then from there you'll download the app and sign into the app so the app's free but you gotta like you go through the website and then do it or else apple takes a third of your money that's how it works i'm gonna need you to give a little background on what the app is yeah like what is this is naked pictures that we know no so so this is this this app this app is designed this app is designed for people um lifestyle clients who want help with their diet and their training strategy but they're not gonna hire a one-on-one you know full-priced coach they want someone who's gonna be able to help them uh i'm in the chat i'm in the community i'm posting to the the chat that's inside the app i can answer questions i can talk to people in there um their diet will be built out based on how i build diets it's all in there the way i do diets like how many grams of protein they're going to get and how i structure the starting diet um there's a list of different programs based on their schedule like if you know they want to train four days a week if they want an arm day there's a bunch of different programs in there and i'm adding to them i've got a new program i'm going to add right away um so and they did and they can track everything through there you can swap out exercises you know you get to maybe it says you know leg press but the leg press is busy in your gym you can swap it out and i've i've chosen what swaps with what everything is all structured by me so it's not going to swap leg press with leg extensions it's going to swap leg press with another you know something that would be a good sub um for that sort of thing so the workouts are all based on how i would train and exercises i would use not exercises that i think are a waste of time and uh yeah it's a it's it's a lot of fun there's um there's a cool dino thing that's hooked up to like where you are so if you if you want to track a meal but you're going to a restaurant it'll look at where you are and all the restaurants around you were there on the list and you oh that's cool pulls it right off the menu pulls the calories right off the website menu everything's all it's really cool how much they can integrate now um the company i worked with they um they're able to do pretty much anything like some people use their apps as an addition to their clients like they want all their clients on the app right right and then other people use it as an alternate coaching option that's going to cost a lot less than like full one-on-one you know a lot of people like i can't justify to my wife paying someone you know four hundred dollars a month or whatever to you know help me with my training but i can justify this because i can log everything it keeps me on track and it's been a lot of fun so far um so yeah i'm just excited about it and like i said uh my i'm going to start running some ads and you know make sure people know about it you know you got to make sure people know about your shit yeah you know then it's seven times they got to see it or something like that i can't remember what the numbers are or one show with us yeah but i'm just excited about it so you know if that's something that you guys are looking for like um an optional coaching alternative where you know you can actually you know it's good for people who um it's good for people who they have friends that would like to get involved in this and like you said they don't either have the money or they can't just they can't justify it for that thing or maybe they're not that committed as you are you know they're like i work with ron but you know i don't want that your friend you can let them know that that's yeah that's an aspect or a way that they can do something similar yeah yeah so it's cool you know i've uh you know not everyone uses a community right i know there's a lot more people logged into it yet there's only a couple people that are like posting not everyone wants to chat with people right but i'm in there and i'm posting so you know that's going to be good interaction and and as they do their programs they you know people posting videos to the chat and i'm posting videos like examples of you know here's my working set for today and i'm trying to engage everybody so i want to get it rolling and it's going good nice yeah so it's exciting it's totally new and i like i at first i was like what am i going to do with this i can't believe you could do that at your age i thought you couldn't teach old dogs new tricks right adaptability dusty adaptability so yeah and it's going to be ever-changing like i said i'm going to constantly add new programs to it and you know tweak things and so i'm pretty happy but it's been great so yeah let me know if you guys you know trainlikehell.com and uh you guys have anything  anything you want to pump? Just your thing? Just your thing? You know, this is it. To be fair, we can all pump stuff. Yeah. So, Dusty's got any dog walking business? Yeah. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I could use another dog walker. Yeah, he could use another dog walker. Yeah, he could. He could. He could. Okay. Any, what do we have for housekeeping? Any new guns, Scott? No, not, not till 2026. I'm on a hiatus from buying anything new. He's blocking himself for one month. Yeah. We're on hold. We're on hold. We're on hold. Yeah, okay, okay, okay, okay. Well, let's pump one more thing here. Remember, Iammutant.com. Go to Iammutant.com. Get your iso, your hardcore iso, get your mindfk, and get, everyone should get on the gear. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Sorry, Donna's napping. She couldn't close us out. She's busy. Don't do 300 micrograms of client. No. Ever. One lesson from this episode. Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys. Is that it? We're good for a week. That's it. Did everyone take something away from Evan's visit? Yes. I hope so. I think everybody loved the Evan's visit. Yeah. I love having Evan on. I hope so. I need... He's my Carnegie friend. Oh, Evan messaged me. He had a concern. Oh, thank you for bringing this up. Yes. I... And I did make a note. I think I know where you're going, and I did make a note in the comments. And I didn't call him on it because I thought, oh, maybe I'm wrong. Me too. But Evan made a statement. He was just talking generally. Yeah. He was just saying, you know, a lot of the 70s, like, and you know, the Hammer stuff's made in China now. Everything's made in China. Everything's made in China. Hammer. But that's actually not true. The Hammer stuff is USA made. Yeah. It is Hammer Strength USA. Now, I did chat GPT and some of the Life Fitness, because Life Fitness owns Hammer. Yeah. Some of the Life Fitness cardio components are manufactured, I think, in Taiwan. Oh. And then assembled in the USA. But it was like, I think, cardio stuff. But I can't remember what Chad said, and that's Chad. That might be, like, misunderstanding. So it's not always right. Yeah. But yeah. So, and then also, too, I want to clear up one more thing about Chinese manufacturing. You know, in the old days, Chinese manufacturing used to be, like, a joke. Like, people would say, oh, it's Chinese steel. It's garbage. But there are levels to Chinese manufacturing. Obviously, it has gone awesome. There's awesome stuff coming out of there now. So that's why the game has changed. But there's all sorts of different quality controls. Like, some of these big manufacturers have very high quality controls, and some of them have very questionable quality controls. And that's where the variety comes in. Mm-hmm. And then you have companies that they manufacture in China, but they're not third party. They have built their own facility there. Yeah. So they're still in control of manufacturing. So there's different levels to it. Just a younger kid welding it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or a robot. It's just a younger robot welding it. Younger robot welding it. So when we talk about Chinese equipment, there's a lot more nuance than there used to be. Right. Yeah. There's a lot more nuance than it used to be. And things have changed, obviously. The world is a... In Chinese gear, too. You know? Yeah. Robo production. It's very... Yeah. All over the place. A little sketchy. Yeah. It could be great. You can get awesome stuff, right? Yeah. So, okay. Yeah. There we go. So Evan just wanted... He was very... He was like, I didn't realize I made a mistake there. And he was very concerned. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. So Hammer Strength USA. Okay. USA. Okay. USA. Okay. Remember... Do we do the ring the bell? No? We already did that. We did that? Just gotta... Remember. Remember. This is... It's just bodybuilding. Next time you see me, I'll have a new wheel. Oh. You better be on the show, too. We're ready. Yeah. Let's go. You better be on the phone, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too, too,