 D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D... D Deanne. It's Diana. Princess Deanna. Diana, yes. Exactly. Princess Deanna. Yes, exactly. That's how you're supposed to say it. Yes. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast. With Dave Crosland, I'm Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave if you're in the UK. And if you're on cycle, you should especially get your labs done. We're also brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. You can go to Strom Sports to get great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle, both in the UK and the US now. We're brought to you by, of course, truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements, protein powder, creatine, all that kind of stuff. And we are brought to you by supplementsource.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. We appreciate everything you guys have done for us over the year. Dave, I have incredible news. So first of all, this will be our first episode of 2026. We're recording it right before 2026, but we can pretend. Hey, happy new year. Happy new year, man. I have incredible news. You're pregnant. That's the other news. So first news is this. Did you know that, so Arnold UK is coming up, right? You're not coming. Please tell me now. Guys, I wanted to officially announce the eval blood analysis is sponsoring me to come over. They're paying for my airfare. They're paying for my accommodations. And they're even going to take me out to lunch every day. Thank you, eval. I appreciate you. Did you hear about that, Dave? Yes, I've got your airfare. You're getting in a cardboard box and getting shipped UPS. I'm going to, for real, I'm going to try to figure out a way, man. I got to get over there. I got to see you again. Mutant will be here, won't it? Mutant will be there. I'm not sure what we're going to do, though. You know, the Arnold's this year at this time is really weird. We've agreed our stand and everything. And it's taken ages. They just don't seem to be on it. Signed the contract just before we went. Now, normally, the moment you send that email, there's an email from account saying pay. Yeah. Yeah, no, we talked about this the other week. That's why I'm pumped. It's happening now, though, right? Not heard a thing. Lots of businesses seem very, very nervous. They want to do it. But they're very, very nervous. Is it really still going ahead? Because it just seems really slack on that front. But, I mean, have you got Contest and Mutant? Like, yeah, we're definitely going. Yeah. Yeah. They've got it all set. They're already booking it and everything. Right. I mean, it should be good. It should be really good. Because the last one, all right, attendance was a little bit down. The stands were a little bit down. But other than that, it was brilliant. It was a really good event. It's the first one I've enjoyed in a very long term. Nice. Well, listen, we've got a bunch of stuff today. Of course, we've got everybody's listener questions. And you guys are welcome to comment with questions. That's how the show works. Dave is an expert witness for the U.K. court system. Plus, he's done education for the police and the military over there. And you can see him featured as the subject on Under Construction, the film one and two. If you haven't seen Dave on those movies, he got really big at one time. Bigger than he is now. You were really big, man. Freaking really big, dude. Anyway, so listen, I thought for a beginning of the year show, I wanted to talk to you. Let's look back at the changes in the steroid market in 2025. What do we foresee happening in 2026? And I wanted to lead that by telling you about. So get this, man. A couple of weeks ago, there was this whole thing about how the FDA was going to crack down on underground peptide companies. And I did a video on it and it actually got a lot of traction. So much so that people from like the mainstream saw the video, like people that are not part of our community. And they were like, what are you talking about? This is ridiculous. This is ridiculous. J.D. Vance, Donald Trump said that they're going to protect peptides and the peptides will be, you know, continuing to be used in the U.S. They just signed it and blah, blah, blah. Like peptides aren't going anywhere. What they didn't understand is we were talking about how we've gotten our peptides, which in the U.S. at least has been through research sites. And the government's going in through a big shift to shut those things down. Have you, do you guys deal with that over there? Do you guys have like the, I mean, you've got, I know one. In particular. But how popular are like, quote unquote, research peptides and research chem sites in the U.K.? They've boomed massively. There used to be just a couple of fairly dominant ones that have been around for a very long time, you know, from the CJC days and all that sort of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. More recently, there's been quite a few new ones, new ones under the market. They are. So the law basically is that peptides are not legal for sale for human consumption. Right. You can sell them for research only and you can buy them as a private individual, but you can't sell them for human consumption. There has been people prosecuted for it. There has been companies shut down and I've known individuals be prosecuted. Generally, it's driven by the FDA. Sorry, trading standards. Generally, it's driven by trading standards. As this is not a controlled drug. It's a sale classification issue. It's not licensed for sale. But I have seen the police involved and I have seen the MHRA involved, which is a medical regulatory body for medicines and stuff. So get this. We've had we've gotten warning letters for the most part. But since then, now there have been, from what I understand, at least four formal indictments that the FDA is really cracking down now. And I think it all comes down to the GLPs, you know. They didn't care so much with CJC and, you know, IPAM, all that stuff. I'm not sure it's just that as well. I mean, though, I think the GLPs have been a massive boom to these industries. I think peptides in general have gained a lot of popularity across a wider, broad spectrum of people. I'm seeing more peptide sites in the sense of discussion sites, you know, so like Facebook groups and stuff like that. And obviously with a lot of the new stuff like the MOTS and all the rest of it, we're seeing this this big longevity user group growing into peptides. Yes. I think they weren't that much into before. Now they've moved very much into peptides as well. Yeah. And obviously Janoshek was saying that the bulk of his work now is peptide testing. Yeah. So I think there's just been a massive boom all over. What you tend to find with these things, they become interested when they realize there's a load of illicit money there. Oh, absolutely, dude. That's what this is all. Follow the money. Follow the dollars. Yeah. If it's not making a lot of money, they don't give a shit about it. No matter how illegal it is, they don't really care. But when it starts showing big numbers, then they suddenly get really, really interested in it. So I think that's a big driver behind it is the potential seizure aspect and the financial implications of what they can get out of it. All right. So check this out. So I don't have the actual indictments, right? Like they're keeping pretty tight lip about what's actually going on with that stuff. That said, I did find it was it was actually showing to me that the FDA had released warning letters publicly to say, hey, these are the warning letters that we put out like a year ago to several of these companies. And let me tell you something. There's some interesting stuff in here because these warning letters are the exact same reasons that they're going to prosecute these places. And let me just read a couple of things to you here. So first of all, I've got one in front of me. If I can edit this, I'll add it to the show. But I tried to start editing it and they they list all the websites and then like the specific URLs. And YouTube would not be friendly to that if those websites are still up. I don't want to you know what I'm saying. I don't I don't want their bots to think that we're trying to promote these sites. So I wouldn't need to be careful with that. But basically to this company, Prime Peptides, this letter is to advise you that the United States Food and Drug Administration has reviewed your website at the this website. And observed observed observed your products as a quote peptides, including quote semaglutide and quote retitrutide. Now, they say that they have not only reviewed their websites, but they've reviewed their social media. So they're saying basically, man, they're like, we don't buy it. We don't buy. We see. We see.  where, where was it here, where was it here, there were, there were, there were things saying that like, although you say that, like, although you say that, here we go, despite statements of your products label labeling, labeling, marketing, for quote, research purposes only, end quote, not intended for human consumption or clinical use, evidence obtained from your website and establishes that your products are intended to be drugs for human use. and then. right. not just the websites they're looking at. They're looking at their Facebook page and they're looking at their YouTube pages too. So the FDA is actually reviewing YouTube content to use this against them in law. So here's my thought, Dave. Not only are these warning letters, did these go out a year ago? These are the exact same principles that they are now prosecuting these companies. Here's what I've seen. End of 2025 now, all these companies are saying, hey, we're not selling GLPs anymore. We're closing out after 2025. They will be done. I'm wondering, how do you think that that's going to affect the peptide market for 2026? I have a thought on that. I want to hear what you think. Well, I think it's going to drive the price up. Obviously, if there's less suppliers and it's more risk to supply, it always pushes price up. The things that are the riskiest to get older, the more expensive. It's going to take it to the UGLs. It is going to be taken to the UGLs. I think that there will be an issue around quality of drug. I think that will become a problem. I think it will drive regular peptide users. People that have got into peptides because of GLPs or because of other things are going to get exposed to the UGL market more. So it's going to drive people into the black market, drug sector even bigger. Yeah. But yeah, I mean, I don't see it being a positive move in the way they're doing it. But I don't see an alternative when they want to enforce some sort of restriction controls. I don't see an alternative to it either. I mean, the bottom line is that these drugs have not passed clinical trials for human use. They're not at this point. GLP has or semaglutide has. Semi-septatide has. And Retta is right on the cusp of it. Yeah, Retta is quite close now. They've had like the stage three trials coming out now. They're showing massive fat loss in it. It's like you're seeing a lot of really good stuff with it. I was thinking the more broad spectrum stuff. But I think also with the Semi and the Retta, this is a drive to protect the legit markets. See, the peptide market in general doesn't bother pharma. And I'm not a big pharma conspiracy guy at all in any way, shape, or form. But the bottom line is the vast majority of peptides available have no impact on medicinal drug sales except those fuckers. Especially now. They're brand new. You know, like Retta hasn't even come out yet. But everybody is already using it. You've got to remember the user population in the U.S. alone is 20, 30, 40 million plus. What do you mean? That's how many people use GLPs. You're kidding me. Wow. There's 20 million registered semaglutide users in the U.S.A. Holy crap. I'm not registered, but you can add me to that list. But that's my point. So if they're registered users, and then you put in the peptide market and the number of people that are using that are not going through legit pharmaceutical groups, it's huge. So when you look at, if they're potentially losing 10 million users, they're potentially using, what, 100 million plus in revenue a month? Maybe more? Oh, dude, we can't even fathom the amount of money that's going to be, that is lost, or be lost from these companies. You know, I also wanted to talk about anabolics, because we saw a massive shift in 2025. And you know what? It's funny, because we still have some people that are like, I don't know what you're talking about. My company still has been selling Primo all along. Like, we still will get those comments, you know? And I'm not going to say that Primo is totally dried up and it's totally been gone. But let's face it, man. Primo and Mast became a hot commodity to get. Like, they definitely, the resources to get those, it really became reduced. But, you know, now, fast forward to 2026, what do you see in the market? Because I'm seeing changes. I'm seeing Mast come back in a big way. I'm not seeing it back to the point it was. It's still considered to be like an extremely exotic, harder to get compound. I definitely would want to get it tested if I picked some up. But I am seeing it on the market more than I did, say, several months back. Now, that's strange because I was speaking to a lab owner literally the week before I went away. Okay. And he was saying that he's still having problems across the board getting all raws. Okay. Yeah, no, I don't think it's done yet, man. So he said there's still supply issues. But it's not just Primo and Mast. It's everything. You know, sometimes he's struggling to get tests. But there's demand. And so there will always be someone willing to fulfill that demand. I've heard stories about certain labs going for individual manufacturing licenses in China. Yes. Yes. So obviously there's a time process there. But I think if that is true and they are successful, then as these producers start to get legit licenses, you will then start to see supply improve. You may not see price reduce significantly if they end up with a monopoly. Yeah. But you will see supply availability at least improve. So, yeah, it's... I mean, we still haven't seemed to have got a legit real reason as to why it all went to be fucking dumb. Yeah. Nothing we can... I mean, we've seen, I think, factors. We've had some ideas, yeah. But... Yeah. I don't think we're ever really gonna find out for sure. But the thing is as well, I think if it is down to basically the government not getting their cut, they're not getting what they want from a point of view of taxation on the UGL farmer market. And there's new companies going... I think for the old companies, it's difficult because you're going back into a practice, but now you're making less money at it. Hmm. Whereas someone coming into the market now, so someone coming into the license is basing it on, well, I've got to give them X amount because of my license. I've got to pay these dues and fees because of... So they... They're factoring that in. That's factoring from the beginning, yeah. So for them, they stomach that a lot easier because they build it into what they're selling and they're marketing, whereas the existing companies are having to restructure everything to accommodate for the fact that they've now got higher fees and things like that to deal with. So I don't know if that's a factor in it or what, but yeah, I'm not... I'm not... I'm not in a position where I'm sort of thinking, oh, there's going to be a massive dry out. We're not going to be able to get gear. People are going to really struggle. But at the same time, I'm not seeing much in the way of any significant changes. So if you're seeing more availability, that's not what I've seen, but I don't see a massive amount of the supply side of things anymore in the sense I don't really speak to a lot of labs like I used to. Yeah. So, you know, there's only a couple of people that I know that have labs that I'll chat to occasionally that I get information from. So I've probably got a very narrow window view here, to be honest. Now, on the one other point on this, before we move on to listener questions, I also wanted to mention, and I brought this up on a podcast the other week, is the growth hormone market. So I've seen issues with major big name suppliers of generic Chinese growth, where companies that are considered to be tried and true are starting to see issues with the quality of the products they're getting. Things that are testing out at like 70 something percent purity when we expect to be in the high 90s. So there still is good generic growth out there, and I've seen the testing to prove it, but I've also seen some fluctuation in there versus I would say a year ago, man, it was just hopping. Like everything was cheap. Everything was high quality as far as what I was seeing from the Chinese generic growth hormone.  But there seems to be a little bit of instability in that market right now. Hey, well, I think that's the same, I got a message this morning, I got a message this morning, uh, from a Chinese peptide supplier, they do roars as well, but to say that they're restructuring all their pricing. Oh, of course they are, right? Yeah. So basically, she's like, I'll send you a new price list tomorrow. I was like, oh, fucking great. But so that, that to me would suggest that we're going to see price increases. Okay. Okay. Yeah, okay. Yeah, that doesn't surprise me at all, man. Okay. Yeah, that doesn't surprise me at all, man. All right. Well, listen, um, we have a bunch of listener questions, as always, and if everybody wants to take part in the show, that's how we run this thing, Dave. Since we were away for a week, we, uh, we ended up with a whole lot of listener questions, so I was thinking maybe we could rapid fire through some of this stuff. Well, um, are we going to do my apology first? Well, yeah, there's something else I wanted to show you. Oh, do what you want to show me then, go on, upset me more. you want to see something pretty cool probably not he'll be shit it's that die out of all breakfast of champions t-shirt isn't it look at that one of our listeners you see suma sent this to me it's difficult to see because the numbers the letters are all squashed up because i'm because i'm so small yes it's like trying to read uh you know like those uh like asian people like carve a grain of rice into a statue you know then you but you have to like get a magnet is that what you're saying something like that something like that yeah yeah i'm gonna wear this shirt everywhere and i'm gonna be curious to see like out in public at the grocery store who stops me and says yeah buddy yeah dianable you mean dianable dianable dianable no dianable die if it was d it would be d e you illiterate fuck uh dianable you've never heard of somebody named dianne is diana princess princess diana yes exactly diana yes exactly that's how you're supposed to say it yes after 20 years of bodybuilding experience plus coaching countless athletes i have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to drywall paste consistency so when i say that i trust true nutrition i mean it in fact true nutrition is one of the few companies that i trust and trust in this industry well it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot yeah i see you out there what makes true nutrition different you get to pick your base i'm a big fan of the way iso you get to pick your flavor i like the cookie butter lately you can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts it's basically like the supplement version of qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning oh my god my insides are on plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies you can cut out the middleman and go straight to the source no proprietary blend nonsense they're third-party tested and in-house tested as well there's no guessing gains it's literally just gains in a bag if you want protein you can trust go to true nutrition.com and use our code think after 20 years of bodybuilding coaching and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes believe me when i say this is the good stuff all right so yeah we got a bunch of comments dave it's not a bunch it was free but they were all right well i sent you three there were like five more oh fuck let's talk about p5p no let's talk about dave getting it all wrong thank you know and here's the thing dave i appreciate you because if you make a mistake you're the first person to be like yeah you know what i messed up on that you know first a lot of people are like no i am completely right there'd be like there'd be other people who would find like five studies to back up you look at this research paper from 1973 i mean i obviously don't like giving out poor information or wrong information um it's it's something i don't want to do it's something i don't try to do uh but yeah i get shit wrong what i can't work out is where i've got it from that's the bit that's bothering me it's like where the fuck has this come from so i have previously says that nandrolone lowers dopamine transport proteins that is incorrect so dopamine transport protein or that as it's shortened to they remove dopamine from the receptor they don't take it to it uh then the other thing was that i say that again they remove dopamine from the receptor they don't take it to it they're part of a recycling process okay so what they do is collect dopamine from the receptor and return it back across the synapses so as a return it to where to where it comes from okay um so that would make sense because i know that dr dean i had him on a few years back we did um a podcast that i titled hacking sleep with dr dean saint mart and he talked about the benefits of p5p before bed and part of the reason is is that you want to be able to clear that dopamine in order to give way to serotonin no so p5p doesn't affect dopamine transport so what p5 so what happens is l-tyrosine is converted to l-dopa right and then l-dopa is converted to dopamine okay and l-dopa conversion to dopamine uses p5p okay so in order to increase dopamine production not transports which is where i got it completely wrong again and i say i don't know where this has come from i don't know why i've got it stuck in my head um so if you want to increase dopamine production p5p will help you do that and if you increase tyrosine as well then you'll not only you'll increase the tyrosine conversion to l-dopa and then the p5p will increase the l-dopa conversion to dopamine resulting in higher levels of dopamine i think and maybe one of our listeners can tell us i think that it'll also enhance serotonin yes now yes it has an impact on serotonin as well and it has an impact on a couple of other um i think it's gabba as well so there are other benefits from p5p it's not purely around dopamine production so but yeah i i got it very very wrong uh not only in the mechanisms but how it works um now what nandrolone does do is now there is some this is so there was three three comments that that scott sent me and they were all pretty much correct in what they said and i was very wrong but one suggested that dopamine sorry that nandrolone increases there's two types of receptors d1 and d2 uh that increases d1 receptor now i don't know of any evidence of that everything i've seen is either neutral doesn't affect d1 at all or lowers them uh nandrolone does lower the reward mechanism so things that we do that we get pleasure from is reduced which is where synergy comes in with cocaine so you don't get the same reward from cocaine as you would normally do so therefore people tend to use more cocaine if they're using nandrolone we've seen that i years back man the first time i had heard about this and i think we talked about it then was a listener was using a strong adhd medication on and and he started NPP and he was like hey man he messaged me on facebook he was like you know what i was talking to my doctor about this i need to use way more my medication um when i'm on this NPP cycle it's not nearly working as well yeah it seems to be a very complex area because i know people that have adhd treatments um and that's a very broad spectrum there as well i mean of different types and variations and and but they've said that when they're on androlone they actually find things a lot easier to cope with um now what it also does is lower d2 um the d2 receptor which is was pointed out by the people that commented as well and i said they've all been fairly correct in my understanding um and i was very very wrong um now one of the things that low d2 can lead to is addiction type behaviors and stuff like that so there's ties with low d2 and addiction and it's very much the balance between d1 and d2 rather than the individual levels but it's that balance between the two so like if you've got low d1 and low d2 then you're looking at depression but if you've got d1 over stimulation but d2 down regulation then you're looking at addiction so over stimulation of d1 would be linked to a higher output of dopamine yeah i you know more dopamine getting to get into it and then obviously nandrolone would down regulate d2 that's definite so if nandrolone doesn't affect the d1 but you see more dopamine present which you won't do which you'll see more dopamine stimulation because the return process is not there because you lower the transport proteins you don't get the clearance the same so there is a potential drive there for addiction through that um but yeah it's very much the the balance of the two that causes the problems so there are some gray areas around it still that we're you know we're a bit way off on  Yeah, and it makes me think man, man, when we hear people saying that like they have mental issues with Nandrolone, it completely adds up to me because yeah, especially somebody say who has like a very dopamine driven personality, you know, if you start interfering with that, then I think you're going to interfere with some things that make them feel like these are key foundational aspects of my personality that are being affected. So I could see that. And at the end of the day, it doesn't, even if you say, even if you say, even if you were wrong, it doesn't change that P5P is beneficial with Nandrolone. Oh, no, I was, I was way off. I don't know, because the thing is, when I read the comments, I was like, yeah, that's right, yeah, that's right, that's right, that's right, and I'm like, why the f- how have I ended up here? But, but am I right though? Like the, so P5P, we're not saying that P5P isn't beneficial then with Nandrolone, because that's what this all comes back to, regardless of what the science is. Yeah, so the P5P is beneficial. And Nandrolone is associated with depressive symptoms, and it does lower the effectiveness of dopamine. So it does lower output. It does lower reward mechanisms. I don't think that any things are an issue. I disagree with the increase in D1. I can't find any evidence of that. Now someone suggested that it increases D1. If they've got something on that, please send it to me, because I would seriously like to see it. And that isn't a, I want you to prove you're right thing. That's me wanting to delve a bit more into that, because I can't see that. I see either slight lowering or, or, or neutral. Most studies show a neutral impact on D1. Comment with that. That would be great. And hey, listen, there was also a comment as we kind of shift into our listener questions. A guy said, I used to experience anxiety from Nandrolone slash NPP. When I ran it with MAST, no issue. What do you think that would be? I think that's probably DHN, DHT related. So Nandrolone converts downstream through five alpha reductates to DHN. DHN can occupy the space that DHT would occupy, but has a much weaker signal. So I think by introducing a DHT, you're increasing overall DHT levels, which is then supplanting the DHT. Okay. All right. Let me see what else we have here. So like I said before, guys, you're welcome to comment with listener questions. We love to answer your questions on every show. Comment on the latest episode on YouTube, and we'll try to tackle it on the next one. All right. So, uh, Hey fellas, love the show. I have a question for the next one. Uh, I ran first cycle. I'm 51 years old from Australia, uh, ran 250 milligrams of test only for six weeks, then 350 test and 400 primo for the next 10 weeks. Uh, all dosing was split into three times a week. Starting out, I took 0.5 milligrams of arimidex three times a week. And my E2 was sitting pretty around 70 and, uh, 70 N mole. Um, however, I tried no ADEX for the last three weeks. And when I got my labs, it was 460, no gynosides and blood pressure was perfect throughout taken daily at a minimum. Any ideas on future cycles or paths forward? Um, I'm now on TRT again, and it will redo bloods in five to six weeks. That seems a lot for a first cycle. The second half did, um, that's probably going a bit further than you need to go a bit early on. But the reason you weren't getting symptomatic of high estrogen was the masteron. So the masteron this block in the receptor. Oh, primo. So yeah, he's running primo. Was it real primo, I wonder? You know? Yeah, that's unusual. I thought it was masteron. Uh. 350 test, 400 primo. I would imagine that his estrogen would be pretty well managed. So I would suspect that that primo might be masteron. Yeah, that's possible. Because if he's non-symptomatic of high estrogen, but he has high estrogen, then the receptor's getting blocked. The estrogen's not getting lowered. Primo would lower the estrogen, so you'd see a lower estrogen level. Um, but because he's not getting symptoms, I would assume then that the primo's been masteron. Yeah. What would you say would be a good move for him for his second cycle? He's 50 years old. He's run those two, those things as his first cycle. He's taking a break now. He's going to get labs in another five to six weeks. I would probably go back to a test mast or test primo cycle. Just lower doses. I wouldn't run it as high as he's run it. Um. Maybe depending on his personal circumstances. I mean, I know we've just been discussing the negatives of landrolone, but. A low dose, 500 milligram, just to have some joint support. If he's got issues with that at his age. If he hasn't, then I wouldn't bother. But, yeah, I'd be tempted to go back into it sort of just slightly lower, maybe 300, 300, something along those lines. Okay. Yeah, I think that'd be great, man. I don't know, nothing to add to that. How about this one? Merry Christmas, guys. Oh, this is just a comment. Thank you for the great podcasts in 2025. I've learned so much about PEDs, peptides, and supplements. Looking forward to many more in 26. Thanks. That's a nice comment. We got a few of those. And thank you to everybody who's been watching, you know, through the year and everything. It's been awesome. Dave, you pointed out, you and I, we've been doing this show for five years now, haven't we? It is five years, is it? I think we started in 17. Fucking hell. Really? It's going into it's eight years. Yeah. Yeah, I guess it is. Yeah, because we did it through lockdown, didn't we? Oh, yeah. We were well into it by the time we hit lockdown, man. We were, like, well into it by then. You know what? If I'd have murdered you, I'd have been out by now. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks. I put up with this for, like, seven, eight years, guys. Just throwing it out there to you. Yeah. Scott, what concentration was the painless DHB? And do you know the carrier oil? I asked about the carrier oil. I'll get back on that in the future. It was 100 milligrams per mil. It's interesting, man. I had one batch of DHB, Dave, that was just brutal, man. Like, I'm talking, can't sleep. Like, you take a glute shot on your left. And I'm like, well, I'm not sleeping on my left side for the next two nights. And, like, every move you make, every, I'm sitting in my chair kind of awkward, walking awkward. Oh, God, dude. It was bad. No matter what I did. And I was like, well, maybe I'll take less. I'll take a half mil and I'll mix that with a little bit of Deka, you know, and my test, right? Still terrible. I couldn't get around it. But then I got another batch from someone else that is, it's beautiful, man. I mean, apart from the obvious as a carrier, all the stuff, I do believe that brewing can have a significant impact on how painful DHB is. Sure. Yeah, absolutely. Question for the next one. I recently found out I am severely iron deficient, non-anemic, and likely have been for decades. So I decided to postpone my first cycle until ferritin hits 150. It was nine. Now it's 50. Um, what is, uh, like, is there an optimal range for, uh, ferritin for natural and enhanced lifters? Um, how much less effective is gear in an iron deficient state? Loving the podcasts. You guys are great. I wouldn't say gear is in any way compromised by low iron, but obviously your performance and recovery could be. Uh, I don't think there's an ideal on the ferritin. I mean, I'd want it in healthy ranges, but I don't think there's a sort of magic number you need to be hitting. Um. If anything, I think sometimes ferritin gets kind of, can get high. Yeah. I'd say if anything, gear is going to elevate for iron and ferritin to some degree. So, uh, yeah. I'm not saying that using gear should be a solution to the problem, but I don't think it's going to cause any negatives in terms of the problem. And I don't think you're going to see any significant real issues. I'm assuming that you are now supplementing with iron and that's what's bringing it back up. Um, it might be worthwhile looking at if you haven't already done it, some form of iron IV just to give it a boost. Start and then once you've got it up. Yeah. And then once you've got it up, use the oral supplementation to keep it up. Um, I wonder how long it took him to get from nine to 50. Hmm. You know, is that a long process? And I wonder what caused it. Like, like that would be more my concern. Yeah. What is the underlying reason? Is there a, is it an absorption issue? Is, is there an underlying, you know, gut problem or, or is it a dietary issue which needs rectifying long-term anyway? Yeah. Yeah. I would be curious as to why it's there in the first place. You could look at, uh, like copper and zinc levels and see where that's at. You know, look to see what that balance looks like because that will affect your ability to absorb iron. Um, I, you know, does he have any, like you said, gut, any kind of gut issues going on like celiac or anything? Or, um, what about like, has he, does he have like a low, um, like does, how, what is his stomach acid?  I'd, like, I'd look into any of that, and figure out, because I, I, I, I, I don't like the idea of like, well, I'm low in iron, let's just take some iron and fix that, like, well, what got us here? No, I think, I think, I think there's the treatment of the situation. No, and I'm not, yeah, I'm not, sorry, I didn't mean that to discredit what you said, I agree with that. But then there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, then there's the dealing with why the problem occurred in the first place. Yeah, too many people, too many people, too many people, too many people, too many people, too many people, too many people, too many people, too many people rely just on the treatment of the symptoms, rather than the looking retrospectively into right now, now I feel better, let's look into why I got into this position in the first place, and a lot of people ignore that section, because now I feel better, I don't need to do anything else. I heard an interesting analogy about iron and ferritin to explain it the other day, that iron is the currency, and ferritin is the bank. I like that one. Okay. You letting people in, Dave? What are you doing there? Eh, it's, I was trying to, but I missed him, so my daughter's got it. Okay. You monitoring your security system? Yeah, right. He has a high-tech security system on his compound. He doesn't let people in, unless he wants them in. My fucking cameras are fucked up at the moment. Yeah? Yeah. Yeah. They have, like, Wi-Fi jammers now, that people are using to be porch pirates. That's the problem. It's something to do with the Wi-Fi here, that they've lost the signal. They're not receiving it for some reason. Well, your Wi-Fi is ten times better, not going for Micah, compared to when we started the podcast. I didn't tell you. I've just gone, my Wi-Fi's just gone digital. What does that mean? So, we were supplied the signal via the old phone lines. Oh. And about a week before I went away, they came back to, they stripped all the, basically went right back up to the junction box and put in new digital cabling. You look good. Like, everything's been recording super clearly. Yeah, so it's all fiber optic now. Oh, you've got fiber optic. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Andrew got that, too, which is incredible. In fact, dude. So, he runs podcasting for him off of a laptop, which obviously doesn't need wall power if you have a battery. And we were recording one day, and there was a big storm. All of a sudden, the power in his house just went out. But he was still recording because he was on fiber optic recording on a battery. Isn't that wild? What else do we have here? Okay. For cruise doses, would doing a lower dose of test and adding in stuff like DACA or, I think this is a typo, adding in stuff like DACA, DNP, NPP, and GH, do anything, any other compounds be beneficial? Or is test only for a cruise the way to go? If someone doses 250 tests on a cruise, how much difference would, say, 120 tests and ADDECA, considering it's less total milligrams per week, but a combination of two compounds? I'm not even answering this. DNP. I think you meant to write DNP in there. No, I think you meant to write DHB. Oh. Okay. I mean, I don't know. Maybe like a test DNP cruise, you know, just between cycles, keep you trim. You know my standpoint. TRT, natural levels, is how I would always recommend going between cruises to give your body a break and allow it time to recover from the stresses. Between cycles. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, okay. People want to add extra. You can do the net gain. I personally don't see in the real world. I don't really see a net gain. I don't really see people with better development because they've run a high cruise between cycles. In fact, what I usually see is them just getting very blasé about drugs and developing poor relationships with the drugs they're using. And it's not long before 300 or 400 is just a baseline for everything. So, yeah, I would stick to keeping that in between period rigidly within natural ranges even, to be honest, and allow your body plenty of time to recover and get fit and healthy before you go again. Okay. Okay. So, we've talked about high test, or excuse me, low test, high DECA. Would I still need CABR for prolactin control or is it like a lot of DECA sides are mitigated by low estrogen from the low test? No, you would still need the CABR side of things. Pro prolactin is due to the dopamine effects or the impacts on dopamine that we discussed earlier on that I've got wrong. I'm not hiding from it. I might as well just be blatant about it and keep it out there. Yeah, you own it, right? I think that's what people like your transparency, though, Dave. You're not trying to pretend anything, right? Oh, fucking thick twat. Hey, welcome back from your vacation. You're wrong. Come on the internet and tell everybody you're wrong. So, yeah, the CABR is going to be to lower prolactin due to its direct stimulus of the dopamine receptor. So, you will still need that. That's not going away. We had a question, which we're not going to do this today, but I'm curious to take a poll from our listeners. He says, maybe next week's episode, steroid profile, mint. Do you guys want to hear about mint again? Do you want us to go back in and talk about mint? Yes, we've done it, but it was a long time ago we did mint. Yeah. Back when I was using it, we covered it a couple times. In fact, I think I just recently published that on the Bee Channel, one of our old episodes. And I was like all beefed up, and I'm like, yeah, I'm running mint right now, Dave. People watched that, and they're like, damn, Scott looked swole back then. His face looked round, too. I wonder why. Yeah, right? He didn't say it. Okay. Oh, this was just a really great comment. I wanted to make sure that we added it in. So we talked about things for acne on the last episode. And James adds, he says, for acne, take six grams of B5 a day. Spread it out into two gram doses. Also, the first couple days, start with a lower dose, like two grams, then four grams to avoid diarrhea. It helps calm the sebaceous glands by reducing sebum production, which reduces acne. We didn't mention B5, which was a classic old school move. Sometimes I think we forget the, you know, it's like when we've answered that acne question a hundred times, we just pick and choose, like, what bits we're going to reshare again. You know what I mean? We don't cover it all every time, but that was a good one, you know? Yeah, it's easy to get carried away with the new stuff and forget. You know what? There's actually old stuff that works really well. Yeah. Oh, oh, what are, can you, somebody said I pronounced this one wrong. What are the three main ingredients for the ECA stack? I want to hear you say it first. Ephedrine, caffeine, and aspirin. Yeah, you said ephedrine. Ephedrine. I sometimes say ephedrine. I don't. Which is kind of like creatine, ephedrine. Tomatoes, tomatoes, I suppose. Yeah, I've heard ephedrine in the past. I used to hear that more often. It used to be real popular back in the 90s, ephedrine was. And yeah, I would hear ephedrine. I don't know. But you ever hear people say ephedrine? You. All right. Let's not get into that. We'll just move on here. You and your Dianabols. Dianabol. Dianabol. Yeah. Dianabols. Yeah, you're Dianabols. Yeah. I think it sounds classier. Like I would extend my pinky when I was sipping tea. Dianabol. Dianabol. 25 milligrams of Dianabol. David? I don't know. No, I can't really criticize anyone for pronunciations. I am useless. I mean, I spent a very long number of years pronouncing Nanthe as ephedrine. So I really need to just. Test anethine. Yeah. What did you say? Ephedrine. Instead of ananthine. Yeah. Oh, just another comment here. He says, impressive build on Dave's truck. He should do a build video. I heard you broke your truck. I did break my truck. Shut up, Scott. Go away. You horrible man. Dave broke his toy. I broke it pretty badly as well. Well, yeah, fairly badly. Yeah. What do you. How did you break it? So I. I. The bonnet vents are non-functional on a stock ram. And the bumper vent is non-functional. And then behind the main grill, you have a motorized baffle that regulates airflow. So I made the bonnet vents functional. I made the bumper vent functional because that's where the intercooler is going to be going. And I got rid of the baffle. I made it an open grill. Which was fine from a point of view of cooling. But it meant I massively increased the airflow into the engine. When I first got the truck, we were going to use it for towing a trailer a lot for eval for events and stuff.  So it had, the water pump was a bit knackered, so I put a new water pump on with a heavy dewy clutch fan. Speaking of which sponsor, thank you again to E-Vail for sponsoring me for the Arnold. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, carry on. What I didn't grasp, because I'm a retard, sorry, because I'm a person of low intelligence, was one of the things they warn you about clutch fans is don't rev them with the bonnet hook because the increased air flow is going to be a lot of air flow is going to be a lot of air flow is going to create a lot of air pressure and those clutch fans can actually explode. So I was out data logging, doing the last pull, hit about 6,500 revs, almighty bang, looked in my rear view mirror to see a steaming chunk of metal go rolling down the road. Like literally a piece of your truck fell off. So basically the clutch fan has exploded, taking with it the water pump and destroying the water pump. The shroud around the fan had been literally obliterated by the fan blades exploding and there were also several fan blades lodged in the radiator. They'd cut through some wires. My now oil pressure sensor doesn't work, so I think they screwed that. They destroyed the battery tray. So I've had to fit a new water pump and a new radiator. Luckily I did have a new radiator because I was planning on changing it anyway. I've had to fit a new battery tray and I've had to fit a new battery tray and a new oil sensor. But it is now back on the road and running. Be it with no fans behind the radiator currently. If you didn't mess with any of this stuff, it would have been running just fine right now. You realize that. Put gas in it, drive it to the store, drive it home. It drives so much better with that clutch fan off. Yeah. Oh yeah. It's a fucking different truck. All right. Can I build muscle on 200 milligrams of TRT per week? Yes. Yeah. Oh yeah. I mean, that's like going to be a pretty like optimized TRT. You know what I'm saying? You know what I'm saying? You're going to be at like high end, aren't you? So initially you will see an increase in progress, but that will soon diminish. So this is my argument about high cruisers. Long term, there's no benefit to them. So yeah, you will see some advanced progress initially, particularly if your test levels are currently low. But that advantage will soon diminish. So just bear that in mind. And you're going to have an increased issue with monitoring blood thickness, HDL suppression and stuff like that as well, because you're going to be running out of range and you may need estrogen management as well. So there are a couple of short term pluses, but there are some long term negatives. I agree with you. We got one in Patreon that I think is extremely important for us to answer from Phil. He says, OK, for drugs and stuff, y'all did a question back for the best Halloween stack. But what about the best stack for Christmas and for New Year's? What should they be running into 2026, Dave? What should they have been on for this? All of it. I would need some ECA, honestly, just to some excuse me, effedrine just to stay up to hear the ball drop. Like I'm going to be in bed, honestly, every New Year's by 930. Oof, you beat me. I'm in bed by 9. Are you really? See, guys, that's what happens when you become a boomer. That's what happens when you're old, mate. That's what happens when you're old. I mean, obviously, Scott's in his 60s. I'm in my 50s. Yep, yep. So it depends on what you want to do, doesn't it? I suppose New Year, New Me, we're going to be looking at cutting. So I would have said, what, test, mast, T3? Or you could go T3 so you can eat more food. Hmm. Got to throw a GLP-1 in there, too. You know, eat less food if you're on a GLP-1. Yeah, you get that GLP in there, though. Get your insulin sensitivity up, just like all your friends. In the 80 million, what is it? Dave said like 300 million people in the U.S. are using it right now or something. And that's what you said. What was that number again? 20 million registered semiglutad users. Yeah, that's exactly what I said. It is exactly what you said. There's no exaggeration or bullshit in that. What's like that? Guys, you check that out. Dave, you had a lot of time to sit and think and ponder. I'm sure that you brought a journal with you and you penciled down a lot of great ideas for Uncle Dave's wisdom. By the way, we did get a lot of feedback. I do. I do have one. We got a lot of feedback on the last one, man. We had that guy right in who was talking about, like, should I settle down and look for a wife or, you know, should I keep doing this selfish bodybuilding thing? We had a lot of really good advice for him on that one. And he took it to heart. So you think we're helping people, Dave. We're helping people. What do you got for us today? I've stole this. So completely. So you don't really have one is what you're telling me. You stole someone else's Uncle Dave's wisdom. Isn't really what we do the regurgitation of information that we've gathered from somewhere else? Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. I mean, even if you think you have your own thoughts, it's influenced by everything else. Yeah, exactly. So shut the fuck up. Depression is fixation on the past. Anxiety is fixation on the future. Oh, yeah. So put your head where your feet are. Put your head where your feet are? As in now. Where you are standing now is where you want to be occupying your thoughts. The present. Not literally where you're standing now, you. Oh, you confused me. You know, you understand then why he struggles to say words, don't you? Yeah. F for dream. Because he eats crayons. He got a new set for Christmas. He's done excited. He's got yellow again. Yeah. So, you know, I think we all need to live a little bit more in today. Um, and the other thing that I, I wouldn't say I noticed. So I spent a lot of time this morning just sat on the beach. Didn't do anything else. And you walk out and I'd sit on the beach and there was sand, there was rocks, there was the sea. And there wasn't really anything else to see. Okay. So I thought. And then I'd notice. Oh, there's some bluey green crabs on those rocks over there. Yeah. Oh, there's a see-through crab there. Oh, actually this bit of floor is moving because it's full of hermit crabs. Did you try to eat them? No. Did you eat those crabs? No, we, we, we set up a real estate and we were offering them new shells to see if we could get any of them to change. Didn't work. But, uh. No. All right. No. They're quite like plums. They've got a thing for plums and pear. You were feeding them fruits, huh? Oh, yeah. Um, anyway. Um, and I just sort of thought, you know what? This is very true of life in that we, we miss so much because we're so busy or we're so focused on tomorrow or so focused on yesterday. Yeah. We, we, we actually miss so much of what's going on around us. And actually a lot of what's going on around us is the beauty of life. Yeah. Um, uh, and sometimes saying you can do this every day cause of course you can't, but I think we all could do better by just actually seeing what there is around us. Uh, we look, but we don't see. Yeah. Yeah. Especially when you're in your busy day to day, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Or you're just preoccupied, you know? And, and, and, and we, we, we don't actually stop and see the world, but we don't actually stop and see the people. And I think that's sometimes where we can often go very wrong in that we, we meet people, we see people in the workplace, we see people at home, but we don't actually truly see them because we don't spend enough time just actually watching or listening to them. Hmm. It was a good point, man. I think that's very valid. Look at that. You, you came up with something. You just needed 10 days to sit on the beach and think about it. Yeah. So if you pay for my trip tomorrow for another 10 days, I'll give you something else in two weeks. Talk to the crew at Eval. They're really generous with sponsorships. They might help you out. They're frigging not. Really what, you know, when you were talking about like the past and depression. Uh, that reminded me, um, the 12 step program that I've been in there's, they have, um, uh, a reading or a pamphlet called the triangle of self obsession. And I pulled it up because they have like a little, a little chart that says like past, present, future, and you can look at those things negative, how you hand it negatively versus how you hand it positively. So they say the past resentment versus acceptance. The present anger versus love in the future. feed.  Morr там,emaalr там, Well, it just seemed a little bit sort of slack, you know, not very on point. Anyway, we got there. They took his luggage. That disappeared. Obviously, they were going to take that down to the room. So this room wasn't ready, but they'd take us around to drostanolone for something to eat. So we went around to drostanolone. And to be fair, the food was nice. It was a buffet-style restaurant, but there were quite a lot of different sections. And the food was nice. Nice. Got to our room, and now we'd actually got quite a cheap room. So they do water villas, they do beach villas, and then they do these, like, apartment blocks. And we'd just got in one of them. Okay. But it was ground level, and it was a really, really nice room. Really, really nice room. Quite big, well-equipped, very, very clean. And you came out of the room. There was two sun lounges in, like, a little private garden area, which was part of the beach. And then you went around these mangoes, mangroves to sort of, you know, section, sections off. Yeah. You come around the side of that, and you were literally on the beach. Oh, cool. So it was eight foot from my back door to being on the beach. Oh, nice. And that was really nice. I had a shower because, obviously, I fucking stank. Get on the plane for, yeah. Yeah. Well, we'd also driven four or five hours to get to London first and everything else. All of that, yeah. So, anyway, we got sort of settled in, and they have a little buggy. The island, you could probably walk around it in 15 minutes. Yeah. It's tiny. But they have a little, like, golf cart buggy service that just constantly runs all day long. So we went down for evening meal. That was nice. And then when we actually started to see a little bit of the island and it working properly, it was really, really nice, to be fair. Yeah. Very clean. Staff were amazing. The problem with a lot of these buffy places is you get to, like, three, four days in, and you're repeating day one. Yeah. Never really had that. It was different stuff all the time. Obviously, it was a little bit extra as well with it being Christmas. We got chatting to the general manager and sort of saw him and sat with him for a brew and a chat pretty much most days. And it was just really nice. So we were up the top end. And several days we sat on our beach and it was just us. No one else. Oh, that's cool, man. I saw pictures of fishes and stuff. Did you go snorkeling? No, but there was four baby reef sharks that would swim the shoreline every day back and forth, just constantly back and forth. Okay. We had three herons came and visited every morning for food. There was a fucking big fruit bat, but it was only one, which I found a bit weird. Fruit bats are massive, aren't they? Yeah, but it's just this one, though. There was this one fruit bat for some weird reason. They had those massive bats, the fruit bats in Australia. And I remember, like, walking through a park at sunset, and all of a sudden this, like, freaking, like, velociraptor just like that. What is that? About two foot across there at Decentside. Yeah. We saw the sharks feeding because the fish shoals would come in and stay near the shoreline if the weather was rough, and then the sharks would just have at them, just constantly have at them. Then the day we were leaving, there was a ray feeding, a big manta ray feeding. Well, I'll say big, about three, four foot across. He was feeding in a shoal. The rays are so cool. I've never seen one of them. I'll send you a video. I'd like to see it. But, yeah, I mean, it was just, it was nice. It was just really, really nice. And I think it was just because the weather was crap and I was tired. It just seemed a little bit slack and disorganized when we got there. But once we got into the swing of things, it rang like clockwork. They cleaned our, literally this guy turned up every morning with a rake and raked our beach clean. Oh, no kidding. Every inch of it. That's cool. So you just like sat back and relaxed this whole time. Absolutely. I mean, there's nothing else to really do, I guess. It's not like you've got to. But it was water sports and there was a lot of water sports. How was their Wi-Fi? Very good. Very good. Oh, okay. I wasn't sure how, like, you know what I'm saying? The island Wi-Fi. No, it was very good. That could be hit or miss. So it's a man-made island. It's been there three and a half years. So what you're telling me is you could have done the podcast. No. You could have. No. Could have. No, I couldn't. I promised my wife I wouldn't work. I'm kidding. Or I would work the bare minimum possible. And that's what I did. Did you actually follow that? Because that's what I was hoping for you, Nate, is that you actually unplugged. Very long time. I just sat doing nothing. Can't be wrong. By about day eight, nine, I was getting a bit fucking bored. But the first week, I just literally sat and chilled. That's cool. They have the largest underwater restaurant there in the Maldives. So we went to that. Yeah, so you were telling me that that's like extra, right? We talked about this off the air. Yeah. But you were going to try to. Did you end up going to it? Yeah, yeah. It's seven meters down. Okay. So you sit by a window. Seven meters. Seven meters. So that's seven. 25 foot. About 25 foot. And then you have a window. All the tables are next to a window. And you just see the reef life swimming by. And there was about three and a half, four foot black tip reef shark kept circling while we were there. That's where I saw the pictures from then. Because you had pictures of like the underwater pictures of fish and stuff. Yeah. So that was pretty cool. And then there was another restaurant that you paid for called the Copper Pot, which was really nice as well. Very, very nice actually was that. And yeah, it was just super chilled. And I got no complaints. To be honest, it's. I wouldn't say it's the best holiday I've had because like Japan was just phenomenal. That's a different thing. That's a different kind of experience, too. You probably didn't get to relax quite as much. No, not at all. You did here, you know. But from a for a beach holiday, you know, do nothing sort of beach holiday is the best one I've ever had. Nice. And yeah, I mean, it was just good from start to finish. And I enjoyed it. Nice. All right. Well, what do you say we get this thing started? Yeah, I'm still a bit jet lagged for some reason. Are you? Oh, I bet you are, dude. I was surprised. I didn't think we're going to do the show today. Like I said before, I was like, if you want to do it, man, let me do it. But, you know, still waking up at like four and a half four in the morning. Oh, that's the worst, man. Yeah. When we went to Australia, that was the worst for me ever. And we were both like waking up at two, three a.m. at first, you know, because it's literally I think it was a 14 hour difference. What was the time difference there from you? Five. Okay. So not not incredible, but it would have been. I mean, still, that's a pretty big deal. Yeah. No, I mean, I used to get I get up in the morning like the free checking days I use. I could message everybody before anyone would answer and then just sort of pick the messages up as the day went on. You know what I mean? Yeah. So. All right. We've got some good stuff for today. We don't have listening audience today. We'll get that sorted for next time.