and and it is true, you know, it's been over it will be over a year since I last competed. Um, so you don't have that fresh look. Um, but also it's I think it's to an advantage, you know, for me, I always like I'd ra I'm much rather come in as the underdog, a little forgotten than somebody that everyone, you know, is expecting something, right? So, it gives me a great opportunity for my first Olympia, you know, not too much not too much pressure besides what I put on myself, which is perfect, and show up with my best physique ever. and in honesty and and I have a great time doing it, man. >> Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Parlo, of course. I'm here with Dusty Handshaw and the producer, Scott McN. Like, share, subscribe, comment, and >> ring the bell. >> Yes, and remember.com. Go to immutant.com and get your ISO surge, hardcore ISO, the new name. Get your mind FK. And of course, everyone should get on the gear. >> All the gear. >> Get on the gear. Okay. Codes Dusty. Code Big Ron. Save money. Avoid people >> on the show today. I think he's going to the Olympia or something. Brett Wilin, >> what's going on? >> Got somewhere to be in a couple weeks. Yeah. I I feel like that's what the focus is on right now for sure. And the excitement. So, let's I'm here to talk about it today, man. I haven't done a podcast this entire prep. It's been a busy one with a move and stuff. probably we can talk about a little bit but um um Scott hit me up last week. I was like it's time I pop on and talk bodybuilding because I still like to do this when I can and especially with you guys. So I I am happy to be here today. >> Well, we we have brought your name up several times on the show like you I I wonder if your ears are you know >> ears are hearing it because you know we we we did an episode a little while ago. Me and Scott talked about people you should be following, right? Yes. and you were on the list, you know, for training content and and your name comes up a lot. And then we had Hunter on last week and he mentioned that, you know, he said, "Wow, you know, with Brett and Martin eating weights every day, you know, there's something going like he made a comment about you guys training your ass off and, you know, killing it in the gym." And everyone's got their eye on what you're doing and uh it's very motivating content. So, if all for just that, thank you. >> Yeah. No, I I I did watch that what you guys did last week. That you did I think your explanation was pretty perfect of like we we we still need a few of these fellas. That's what that's what it came down to. You said perfect. It's like, you know, Brett, you know, and I I'll admit it, you know, I'm not the smartest guy out there, you know, when it comes to training stuff. I I know a thing or two, but you said it perfect. It's like Brett just has that, you know, let's just do another one just to kind of [\h__\h] each other up real quick. You know what I mean? just make sure >> just to make sure there's nothing left. You know, that kind of describes a lot of what of our training has been, you know, to a point obviously we're not >> The crazy part about it is everyone thinks we're crazy and stuff, but it's just like neither Martin or I have ever actually gotten like knock on wood, like seriously hurt while training, right? >> Yeah. >> We still know exactly what we're doing when it comes to controlling the loadage, you know, execution and things like that. But it's the intensity that we bring to those sets with control. Um that and that's kind of what you know our continued focus has been for over the years is you know what don't don't stop what works and and and honestly at the end of the day train the way you want to train man like you know now that I'm 10 years deep in this you guys you know 15 20 years into this it's like I would have quit a long time ago if I would have just done what the notebook said or whatever you know what I mean like >> we we built our own processes here and we we we we die on our sword man so I I I at the end of the day when I'm done with my bodybuilding journey. I'm going to be I'm going to be confident that I I did it the way I wanted it to do. And that's, you know, train the way I want to do, set the right examples to everybody out there that, you know, the hard work does it does work and you can grow that way. Um there's many different ways to train, different, many different philosophies, but at the end of the day, the hard work, the execution is going to be what shines through. >> Yeah. And you guys like, you know, you you never you know, you're just trying to be a great bodybuilder, right? You're just trying to be the best bodybuilder you can. And you you you know, some guys have a reputation for, you know, this or that. But how do you feel about like you're like, "Oh, I'm one of the like my reputation is killing it in the gym." Like that's a you know, that's something I think we all want it. We all wanted that. And you know, you can't give that reputation to yourself. That reputation follows you around. So, h how do you how do you feel about that? Just being one of those guys where people really respect your training and your efforts and that's why people follow you and you know, you kind of found yourself here. >> Yeah. I mean, like if you think about if you can't be the best bodybuilder in the world, like you might as well be the best bodybuilder's favorite bodybuilder, right? Set an example for them. you know, if you don't have the genetics to possibly be that, at least show the examples of everything else besides the genetic portion of bodybuilding that you're doing it correctly. You're setting the example. This is this is this is how it's done and people want to watch you to mimic that, right? So that's something I try to, you know, always always try to emphasize in my dayto-day is like obvious, you know, genetically, proportionally, you know, clavically, like I'm not going to be the best physically made up bodybuilder in the world, right? But what can I do to close that gap? What are all these little extra things that I can close that gap with conditioning, with be say posing, you know, with waist control, all those things. So, it's just it it's it's it's cool to know that like a lot of people follow me just because of they see the importance of what I'm able to, you know, what I'm able to do behind in my day-to-day life. Um, and and I I love it, man. I have I have great, you know, obviously I don't have millions and millions of followers, but my engagement is insane when it comes to people that follow me for the right reasons and and I have a very very loyal fan base and especially um I feel like because I can provide something, you know, and that's what I try to do on my YouTube and if you guys don't follow my YouTube or whatever, but it's it's strictly just pretty much training related. I just show my training sessions. Obviously, I'll do some food things in there, too. But it's it's me talking the the ins and outs of training in in our dayto-day. And um and that's what it's all about for us. >> I think that's what hold on. I want to say that's what bodybuilding is. That's what to me that's what bodybuilding is. It's not like, oh, this guy has the perfect physique. He was meant for the sport. Like he was God's gift. It's like, hey, you know what? I'm a normal human being and maybe I have some genetic gifts in some places. I'm going to exploit those. But then I'm also going to turn everything else up to to try to make the bet. You know what I mean? It's like you got men's physique is like basically you've got a small waist, wide shoulders. You either have that or you don't. Bodybuilding, you can create the physique. You know what I'm saying? And I think that what you're hitting on, man, that's like exactly what this sport is about. So that's I I think that that's one of the reasons, too, that people really connect to you because not only that, but then you've taken it to the the level that you have. And for people who don't know, you were a lot smaller when you got your pro card. A lot smaller. I mean, I know you were holding back, dude, at the time. I remember you telling me that, but you were How How much did you did you weigh at that at that Pro Card win? >> So, we went pro I weighed 194 pounds is what I remember. So, >> you were classic, right? >> Yeah. And people people watching this especially after these past two weekends where it's you know everyone's exploding about how you know Z is the first classic guy to you know go to the open Olympia. Um I was actually actually I was actually a classic pro first uh built my way up into the 212 into the open and we're now going to step on the open stage. So this will be a first year of that. But I I was the original one of those guys. So it has been done before. Um, obviously not to this level where you're seeing a top two or top three classic guy in the open now and stuff, but um, but it's cool to see I I feel like I I helped set that example. I know I did for even too cuz, you know, I talked to him regularly. So, it's like part of that him seeing previous years, he knew he could eventually do that and now we're starting to see it with a lot of these classic guys that, you know, aren't aren't necessarily restricting themselves anymore, trying to find the best look, um, but also challenging themselves. I think that's what a lot of it was is like, you know, a lot of it they they kind of psyched themselves out going with the big boys or whatever. It's just I think I was kind of that first guy that said, you know, screw it, I'm going right into, you know, >> taking a couple years off going into this open and coming in there with a, you know, with a with a with a with a chip on my shoulder. So that's what that's what we saw. >> Yeah. And you didn't even say like 210. You didn't even say like 212. You weren't like, "Oh, I think I'm going to just try to get to 212 and work my way up." You're like, "You know what? This is great and everything. I'm going to do open." you know, out the gate. >> Sorry, Dustin. >> Do you think that a lot of guys um >> have kind of I mean, in my when I think of bodybuilding, when I got started, especially as someone with more average, it was always just about more, being a little better, a little bigger, a little harder, whatever it is. >> And I feel like that's the the spot where some of these guys are kind of getting hedged off is they hit that weight cap and you're not really bodybuilding anymore. You're you're body maintaining. And we all know that the body wants to creep its way up just from training and everything else. And I think that's kind of what happened with Z is his body was no longer small enough to be a classic guy. He was just making it happen. So the the dip was enormous. You know, I mean, there's a big difference between being at the top of the weight class because you squeezed in versus being at the top of the weight class because you had to basically eat nothing and and not train to get down. You know what I mean? >> Deplete yourself. >> Two looks are completely different at that point. I'm hoping primarily because I'm retired and I don't have to worry about more guys beating me that uh some of these other guys jump in because if I was like a a top 20 guy at the pro levels, I'd be like please keep the classic guys in classic. >> Yeah. because they're all going to come out here and start kicking our asses like you know because I feel like a lot of the classic guys I mean just like you and I know you when you're speaking about not being the best you're talking you're comparing yourself to you know literally flawless genetics your your structure and everything is freaking incredible >> and I feel like most of the guys who are classic if they decided to turn it up they're genetically the best bodybuilders proportionally. Yeah. Yeah. Symmetrically for sure. I mean, we we see that. Then the only thing is that what we're going to I'm going to be interested in seeing is seeing that balance of how that look transitions cuz even with I think is probably going to be one of the better examples of that transition. >> But even there, you know, you could still see like even with that extra like like it's still an extra 25 30 pounds. You know, it it is a different look, right? you know, the waist is a little bit thicker. And so it's it's it's about finding that balance of not almost like >> almost not too quick too, right? >> Don't ruin your don't ruin your like last week's look like it like fors look I'm like I think he'd almost look better about 10 pounds lighter. You know what I mean? >> It just he lost a little too much lines and then then yesterday or was Yeah. But he was even sharper yesterday. So it's kind of a good blend yesterday. It really was. Um um but like again we're talking about we're also talking about maybe top five six seven guys here though too. I don't know how many more can transition like that, you know? We've seen a few other guys try. It just like >> Z is going to be a top body. He was always going to be a top bodybuilder eventually anyway. You know what I mean? Like he was transition. It's just it was time. Chris can make that jump. Probably Raone Dino can just be based off his proportions and his look. Um Mike maybe, you know what I mean? Like now we're just talking. But um after those I think six, seven, eight guys, I don't think it would like then I think size will kind of become an issue too, especially if you want to be top guy. But you're right, man. No, you're definitely right. Those, like I said, those top five, six, seven classic guys, if they want to take the time, do it right, like they have a really good chance to build up into the open and be successful because we're seeing that. >> Yeah. My my number one thought when I saw why I didn't think it the first week cuz I was just like, "Oh, he looks crazy huge." You know, and then this past week I thought, you know, we really got jipped with Bumstead. He did the one open. He did the one open show, but it was like a couple weeks after the Olympia. I I want to see what I want to see the >> Give me two years of >> I want the nine month I want the nine month bumstead open just one time. You know what I mean? I just want to see the what did you know the 30 lbs or whatever, you know? 62 65. >> Yeah. You just never know, right? >> Yeah. >> And for for you to get from It's an interesting point you make, too. Like you said, taking time. I mean, now obviously you this isn't your first rodeo here, but we're talking from now to the time you turn pro. That was 2018, so you did take your time in in actually building that physique and and filling it out. I I think you have I think you have a point because I've seen that. We've all seen that. We tell guys like don't push too hard, you know, blow your midsection out and stuff like that. So, you know, I could definitely echo where you're coming from with that. >> And to look back on everything, I think that's what I actually did the best. I know people, they only remember me kind of blowing up right into the open. They were like, "Oh, he grew so fast, right?" But, but they didn't know like the six, seven years before that, I was adding like 5 to 10 pounds of muscle year, but I didn't know why I was. That was the crazy part. Like I was just doing it for fun, you know what I mean? Like I was I was Ivana's bag boy. Remember back then? Like at the Olympics training with John Meadows on the side, you know? You know, just like she she'd be at the she'd be at the hotel getting ready for the show. Me and John be training like and I was always just behind the scenes, but I was I was in it, man. You know what I mean? I kept to myself. I you know, I had my own goals. But John >> I went from like 190 you know when I met Ivon I was 175 then a year later 185 then I was 195 then I was you know about five years later then it was you know everything started clicking right and so and I've just haven't stopped it's been that same trajectory here over the last 10 years >> we you know that's funny because you just reminded me and I did mention this the other week I remember the first time that I talked with you first time I interviewed with you >> was one of your first I mean like that was when you were kind of first getting started too >> I'd been at it for a little while couple few years. But yeah, it was it was definitely earlier on. >> But after that conversation, I talked to John and Scott both and they had said that boy destroyed us on legs. He said that he's strong on legs, man. Uh it kind of cracked me up because that was the first that was the first impression I had of you through someone else's perspective is that John Meadows and Scott Stevenson said that you smoked them on legs. What was it like you training with John? I got to ask you because that's one thing I I never got a chance to train with him. >> Part of it is I I part of it is I was just naive too where it's just like you know I I didn't have the my examples were is what I saw online man you know watching watching Branch Warren Johnny Jackson watching these sessions. So like that's all I knew. So, like when I got the ch, you know, when I had those opportunities to train with John, with Scott Stevenson and everyone, man, I would go in there and I was I was in, bro. I was full and then and that that was just cool. And then I would light the fire under him. So, I know exactly what you're talking about because we we ended up doing like some safety squat bar squats that day. And I think it was the first time that we ever really like squatted together and then like, you know, like John put like three plates on, did a set, I did it, you know, and he kind of looks at me like, you know, he did 12 too, right? you know, put the quarter on. We did 365. You know, I did as many as he did. He starts getting a little worked up, you know, it, you know, he kind of gets a little flustered. I I don't know if you guys ever seen John like that, but it was like one of the first times I' ever seen that. So, he throws 405 on there and me and him just start going back and forth with each other and Scott's laughing and like and I'm just I'm just letting him go, amigo. Let him go, amig go. And like and I think that's that was a big step of like obviously earning his respect. Um, but also showing, you know, [\h__\h] there's something special about this dude. And like after I think after that, like he really kind of he definitely bought into me. Um, and then also, you know, I don't I know you guys remember this, but when I went and did my end ended up doing my open debut in in um it was in Tampa or sorry, Atlanta that year, supposed to be Chicago, but remember he was there and then like a week later he did a video saying how bodybuilding's in the best spot, how he really, you know, enjoyed Hunter watching me and Hunter battle it out and stuff and and then like a few days later is when he passed, you know, but it was like it almost it almost lit another fire under him and like we had we literally had just started did that day. He was like, "Hey, I need to bring up my arm, you know, post post show." So, we started he was going to start training me again and everything. And then obviously that had happened. But, um, we I had just such great experiences. And then everything that I've made, my philosophies on training, everything that I do has has a big root and stem from John Meadows. So, I know we all have that in this in this group, but um, it's just such a great man for all of us, for sure. >> Yeah. I wanted to ask you uh you know speaking of Meadows and all that um you we talk about training partners a lot on this show and uh you know obviously we talk about you and Martin eating weights and all that but what else is there to your relationship with Martin that you know when you train the way you guys do I mean I've had training partners you know for I've had a small number of them that you know were like years and years long each right and there's there's only certain people you can do that with you know you have to have a connection with someone to train with him for f, you know, four or five years straight. Um, what's the relationship with Martin like? You know, you guys just click perfectly with, you know, being same time of day and all that. Always with it just works out good. Like what makes you guys a great pair? >> Yeah. I think I think at this point, you know, now being six years deep into this, it's just like it it's it's the system that works that that's that's what you know, like we're at a point where we like you don't even I mean, we do obviously, but we don't need to talk to each other. like you just walk in, you know, you know, >> you're not even really friends. I don't even know his wife's name. >> I know. He might have kids. I don't know. I never asked. >> Grunt and when he got matters how he's feeling on the day, we might just grunt at each other. But the thing is like we know what we need to get done and like we've been training together so long like we know what like we might not know the exact exercise, but we know the sequence it needs to be and so we we we just it just flows, man. So, um, also with that is like the mental side of things, you know, I mean, like we've created such a good relationship in regards to like mentally being close and know, you know, obviously knowing, uh, each other and what they're dealing with and things like that. So, it's like it's good to have that person, especially another man, male male figure that you can bounce things off of, especially in these reps, man. A lot of people get lost in these, you know, and it's it's a benefit to have a good training partner. Not only obviously obviously for the physical side of things to push through these sessions, the really hard energies lows, but also on the mental side of things, man. I don't think it gets obviously it doesn't get talked enough about, but just the mental tranquility, the the the tough the hardships that go into, you know, managing everything, mental prep. So, having a person that you can bounce things off of, you can use, you can resource, um, it helps a lot as well. And then at the end of the day, just soaking this this process in with one of your best friends, you can't beat it. You know what I mean? Like, think about all the the fun you guys have had training together over the years, and we get to do that leading into an Olympia, man. Something we've been talking about for se, you know, six, seven years, and we get to go up in there and do it together. So, I've really used this prep. Um, and a lot of this is just having a daughter now, too, as you guys know, is like I've really been able to slow down, enjoy moments more, especially on preps. So you can probably tell it from my social media and stuff. It's just been extremely, you know, obviously team oriented with the people around me. Obviously extremely family oriented and then and just including everybody in it too. >> With it comes to you and Martin training together. Is it is there anything that you do differently or separately? Like does he ever come in to do extra biceps or do you have a day where you don't actually train together cuz you're doing some extra hams and he's got some del like is it or is it just straight across the board you guys are like locked in. What's the what's the actual you know ins and outs? >> Yeah. No, I would Yeah, for sure. I would say more so in the past like it was like we had did everything. Now as we advance and obviously we have different weak points, strong points, um there are things that we we will separate out and stuff. So, like obviously looking at Martin, like he doesn't need a shoulder press because he has some of the biggest [\h__\h] shoulders I've ever seen, right? So, it's just like so when we do push, like towards the end of push, like we'll do chest and shoulders together. At the end, I'll just do shoulder pressing and then he'll just do more chest or thing like that. So, we we will like we'll we'll hit probably 80 to 90% of everything together and then at the end of the session, then we'll we'll kind of split split up and then hit any specifics that we might need on that day. >> A little bit of customization. >> Yeah. Yeah. So we like need a little bit more arms and things like that. So it's just, you know, it's still an individual thing, you know, we still have to make sure that we're our we're taking care of ourselves first and getting ready for the stage, right? So um making sure that it all just comes together and then we then we'll go pose after that and finish out the session. So it it flows really well. >> Being that you guys uh obviously like us kind of grew up watching the the Branch and Johnny show, how does it feel when you're regularly compared to them now? because you guys are this generation's branch and Johnny. >> I mean, that's that's always an honor just to hear, you know, man, just cuz thinking about all the the cool [\h__\h] we used to watch in the day, but but to be honest, we kind of are, you know what I mean? Like I'm I'm looking the other day like like I'm the only one and I'm not I'm not the only one, but there's not much content out there right now. Just hard training, you know what I mean? So like >> you that's something I I really emphasize is putting that on the YouTube, keeping that out there just to keep that alive. Um, and and and it's it's really cool to be tagged in these things called that and just setting that example because it needs to be there, you know? We at the end of the day, we can't we can't go too like like we talked about when we started this video, we can't go too floofy on this training, man. Like, we got to we got to still have that that that that solid path, that solid foundation of hardcore training that we set the examples. >> Um, because I got I gota actually I got a bone to pick with uh >> with Hollings. I mean, he's he's our generation's hardcore trainer right now. You know, he's our Dorian Yates. And then like last week, I saw him doing some like RDL's with his ass cheeks hanging out and stuff like that. >> I saw that, too. >> Doing some I'm gonna have to call him up, man. You can't be You can't be arguing Dorian Yates and having your your butt sticking out on only fans or whatever you >> just just another income stream. Just another income stream off. You got to have at least five income streams. Brett, he was short. >> His diaper bills are adding up cuz when he did that, I was like, man, this >> Oh, he'll love this. I love this. This is This is our first clip for sure. >> This is a clip. This is a clip for sure. >> We're going to have We're going to have >> for you, James. I am disappointed in We're going to have James on for a reaction to this portion. >> Yeah. >> So, I can't believe that, man. In all seriousness, >> one day one day he's squatting seven plates per side, the next day he's got his ass. >> Hey, times are tough and and and utilities are expensive over there. The tie the tieins were popping. The tieins were popping that day. Just leave them. >> It's the baby diapers. They add up. No, but seriously, I I love that you guys are doing that because when I got into bodybuilding and didn't know anything, I just looked at videos of the most hardcore guys and tried to emulate. And I think right now with so much, I'm going to use the word misinformation out there about how you can get big or confusion even, you know, guys will see someone late in their career >> that's that's not doing that anymore because it's it's not, you know, the the risk-to-reward isn't there for them anymore. But I think it's important that that the young guys coming up see that, you know, we talked about with Hunter about like you have to build your base >> being I mean I tell clients all the time, people in your gym should think you're crazy. If if they don't, you're not doing it right. Yeah, you know, and I'm sure if you guys popped into any gym across the country that didn't know you and started just having a normal workout, there would be confusion as to why you guys are trying to kill each other. And um you know, I just think that that's missing because you know, I'm sure you were the same when you didn't know anything. You'd go in the gym and it was just what else can we do to kill ourselves today? Unlive. Sorry. Sorry about that there. annoyed, >> you know. But I mean, that's one of those things that I think is has gotten lost a little bit with so many people having access to just putting out their own content. I mean, I grew up watching Ronnie Coleman row 495 for reps. And I was like, "All right, well, here I am at 185. I got work to do, >> right?" >> You know, so I love seeing that you guys are doing that. And I love that the physiques show it because I always feel like I can tell how someone trains when I look at their physique. >> There's just feel the I feel like I have a little bit like I do that. I don't know if I'm right, but I'm like a that guy trains hard. You're like >> quality of the muscle. >> Yeah. Missed with cement. This guy's training hard. >> I know nothing about him. >> So, you know, looking into the Olympia and I saw you put a post up which I loved uh or a story about where you were uh assumed you would land at the Olympia >> and you're like, "Oh, they got me in last. That's perfect. right where I want to be. Um, >> you know, we talked about that with Hunter. Don't you find, do you find it interesting how because you got your qualification essentially a year ago, everyone assumes you're just bringing that look again? >> Ah, >> I mean, we we we all know bodybuilding, you're always as good as your last showing, right? So, >> and just a good example of this is think about this time last year. Think about how the how the world viewed Nick Walker and look how they look at him today. >> Yep. >> You know, I mean, right now he's the Mr. Olympia here in three weeks and last year he was written off and he was going to be retired and you know what I mean? So, it's just >> the exact example I was thinking of, man. Everybody was saying that >> for reinventing himself, staying true to himself, getting the work done, and just doing the [\h__\h] You know what I mean? Like, props to him. You know, I talked to him actually a couple weeks ago and I gave him props for that. Like, you know, you were written off, bro. like you like the whole world had you off and you just you just kept knocking on the door. But that that's bodybuilding. So, as long as you continue to believe in yourself and you know, like like I said, and I'm in such a good headsp space, like I said, I don't I don't really truly value people's opinions on the internet, you know, and and it is true, you know, it's been over it will be over a year since I last competed. Um, so you don't have that fresh look. Um, but also it's I think it's to an advantage, you know, for me. I always like I'd ra I' much rather come in as the underdog a little forgotten than somebody that everyone is, you know, is expecting something, right? So, it gives me a great opportunity for my first Olympia, you know, not too much not too much pressure besides what I put on myself, which is perfect. >> Um, and and then, you know, and and show up and with my best physique ever and and honestly and and I have a great time doing it. Man, >> I told the guys last week for all of those reasons, that's why you're my dark horse is just the p the se the perceived notion of well, we already know what he looks like. But that was quite some time ago. So, mark my words, guys. >> Well, it's kind of like Martin last year. I mean, everyone knew Martin was good, but no one expected what he did, you know? I mean, Martin's been great for a long time, but I'll be the first to say I wasn't like, "Oh, top five." >> No. >> Right. >> Yeah. you know, I mean, I'd love to lie and say I had him, oh, I got him in fourth, you know, 6 weeks out, but I was like, yeah, that's that's there's just too many people to leaprog for that to be possible in the time frame. So, I think that that's an exciting thing going in. And I also love that you guys get a little it's a little throwback to like the the Cormier Wheeler thing where you've got two guys who are at the same I mean, you guys are at the same level. I know you need to uh mark that at the Olympia stage, but you are which makes you both better. I mean, you're essentially competing with a close friend that's also very close competition and that only makes both of you better. >> Yeah. And that's something I got to remind myself sometimes like even even you know we get so caught up and like you know like we're like posing after a session and you know obviously he has some really strong shots and stuff and obviously I do on over him on some too but it's just like you catch yourself looking you're like god damn you're like oh [\h__\h] he was fourth in the world last year I got to remember that that's not my shot right there you know but just like but that that's the that's the awesome part is like I am I am I you know daily I get to I get to compete compete against and I compare against someone that's at that that that level, right? So, it's only going to continue to level me up, which which it has. >> Hey, on that note, we we talked to Jordan, we talked to Hunter, and now we're talking to you. on the topic I want to ask you is the the like the Texas vibe, you know, kind of taking that, you know, you and Martin have that energy that you're playing off each other, but then there's kind of that slightly the bigger community of the Texas bodybuilding scene that you're both a part of. Um, how long ago had you moved to Texas now? And what are you thinking about just the environment that you're in there? >> So, I moved here June 1st. So, it's been, like I said, three almost four months now. So, and honestly, it was one of the best moves I ever made. We we it was Texas is cool. We we we definitely like it. We're over in the Houston area. We're on the north side of Houston. Um and it is it is a thriving bodybuilding community. You are you are absolutely right there. A lot of old school gyms. There's just gyms everywhere out here. Um really good community lifting each other up. Um and then obviously Martin had a little bit of history here. You know, he lived in Dallas there for a couple years, so he has a lot of resources and stuff too. Um, but what brought me out here is I'm actually, you know, I'm actually I sell this. You guys probably know this with the butcher bomb, right? So, my office. >> So, I got we got my offices out here and everything. I'm actually creating a couple new companies. I'm getting into some more of the peptides with cosmetic creams and stuff, too. So, that was kind of the reason for the move initially is kind of set up. I I want to build a gym out here next year and then in the next couple years going to be expanding those things, too. Um, but just setting up life after bodybuilding and having like a true home base and and what I've learned the last four months is it's perfect out here. I I've really I've really enjoyed it. Um, and like and then there's so many resources in regards to like you know like bowl mega mat all these gym equipment like you know these sponsors. It's so it's just it's just it's just a cool thriving community down here and you guys are going to get to see it just continue to blow up. >> I love that. Hey, while while you mention it, the butcher balm that has BPC in it, doesn't it? >> Yeah. Yep. So, >> I've never So, yeah, I've literally I've had no experience with topical BPC. Tell us a little bit about that. >> Yeah, probably. So, this is actually one of the first versions of a topical BBC in America and TB-500. So, that's probably why. Um, it has a bunch of essential oils as well. Um, campfor menthol. So, we have campfor menthol in here. So, what that does actually just numbs you out. So, what this is is a pharmaceutical grade icy hot. So it's a very very strong Icyot. You apply it, it numbs you out for three, four hours so you can train through any issues, any pains, any ace. Um, but also through that you're using the transdermal peptides. Yeah. >> So you have you're you have the BBC157, the TB-500 absorbing through the skin as a topical. So that's helping you chronically as well. So it's a feel it's a feel-good and a faith product. So, it's going to make you feel good right away, numb out any pain issues, get through training, but also it's healing you chronically long term as well um for energy injuries. So, >> I trained with a guy I trained with a guy in Buffalo for one of my mutant on a mission episodes and we were going to do legs and I was really nervous because I hadn't done legs for an for the camera for over a year cuz I've had a bad hip >> and I was going to do legs with him and I was like, "Okay, I got to make sure I can train today." today and he pulls a bottle of butcher bomb out and he starts putting it on his knees and I was like, "Oh, can I have some of that?" And he gave me a big dollop of it and I put it all over my hip and it eventually got on my nuts which became a little bit >> became a little bit exciting around the leg extensions and leg curls at the end of the workout. But >> you could use some BPC on the nuts sometimes, you know, numb them from time to time. >> I thought it was awesome. I I I remember loving it and being like, I think that stuff was great. You know how when you have like a joint that hurts, you put cream on it and you have a great workout, you're like, >> did it help? >> It was great because I didn't feel it. That's why. >> Felt good. Like it helped. Yeah. And I was like, I might have to get some of that. Yeah. Yeah. So, I liked it. One try. >> Miracle cream. Brett sold immediately. >> No, it's it's been killing it, man. It really has. So, especially in the >> especially in the like the strong man, you know, the Olympic lifting world and everything. So, um just continue to blow this up. It's been a beautiful first year. the business is booming. So that's why I got to continue to expand down here. So that's awesome. >> But damn you guys, so you moved literally like in your Olympia prep. I feel like as a coach, I'd be like, "Whatever you do, we don't want to make any big changes. No moving." >> Yeah, you were dieting already, right? >> Uh it was like I said it was about 14 weeks out, so I set it up right before it really started. So right when I landed, it was full go after that. So yeah, drove drove the U-Haul what 27 hours. Drove the whole way and then ended drove the U-Haul the whole way. Did not stop and then ended up when I finally got the final destination, pulled in the front yard. I guess it had been rain all day and got the [\h__\h] U-Haul stuck in the front yard. >> That's how that's how the night ended at 2 in the morning. So I just turned it off and went in and figured it out in the morning. >> That's tomorrow's problems. Yeah. >> Yeah, exactly. I wanted to ask you about your mental side of the prep and how you keep yourself zoned and balanced out and you know home life and you know you got the kid now and all that stuff. >> So you know you you you you're not the type of guy that is letting out outside stuff get into your head and you know like you know you've >> you've you're good at that. So, how do you manage that stuff? And and what do you do to kind of keep your mind calm? And do you have any prep habits that you do every day or anything that you're, you know, doing to just stay insulated and zoned and all that sort of stuff? >> Yeah, I think I mean definitely more so I would say I think I'm I'm I'm good now, right? So, like talking here now, this has been a beautiful prep. Hasn't always been like that, you know what I mean? So, as you guys know, but probably listeners, I actually had to pull out of the 2023 Mr. Olympia. >> So, I was qualified for the 2023 Mr. Olympia. And about seven, six weeks out, I don't remember exactly, five, six weeks out, I actually had to pull out due to few different issues. Main issues were digestive issues. I wasn't absorbing all my food. My GI was gone, man. I had, you know, once I got the GI map done, I my probiot I had to I had to take all these different types of probiotics just to rebuild my gut. Um, and then and and it was a tough process. But also with that, you know what I like part of what I learned is like just at that time that was like right after we had our daughter, right? And then obviously getting ready for Olympia. So, I was putting a lot of pressure obviously on being a new father, handling, you know, the no sleep, whatever comes with that, everything, just balancing hormones and life in general. Um, and then also getting ready for my first Olympia, which, you know, had hype and stuff, too. So, obviously that did affect me mentally, you know, especially when I had to pull out due to the digestive issues. >> Yeah. >> Went down a spiral of depression, man. you know, and I don't I'm not going to get into really super super deep because it's not going to be that crazy of a story, but more so what it was is like, you know, it is I put me in a depressive state. I had to take some time off away from bodybuilding and realize really how I wanted to what I wanted to do moving forward and how I was going to come back from this and attack it. So, obviously, I had to fix everything with the gut first. That was about a four or five months process. Um but also you know like I said that depressive state do handling that too you know and that was something totally new with me because I had never dealt with depression in my life. So like I was you know I was catching myself like listening to dark music things like that and it was just a really new experience for me. So it it took me like I said that was the end of 2023. I really had to I had to man up. I had to make some decisions in myself. I had to look at myself in the mirror and say like what do I do now? And then the only thing I know what to do is I have to [\h__\h] pull up pull up my britches and let's get to work, right? You know, like this is that's the only way out of this is the is my work my way out of it. So that's when I spent all 24 last year, started January 1st, I think it was, you know, got ready for that Legion Sportsfest, which was in August. Um, and came, you know, I, like I said, I got all the way down to like 225, 230 pounds, built all the way back up to 285, came down for the show, and then ended up winning that show. So that was one of the more like challenging aspects of you know when it comes to my bodybuilding journey in general is like I said coming back from that experiencing those things and then triumphing and then getting to this point. So what I'm saying with that is just handling all those up and downs that has set me up so good this year that like you know I can handle anything right now man. Like I said I'm you know especially now that I'm three weeks I'm going to make this. I'm going to enjoy this. Um but I am in a really good spot. So, I'm very very happy with everything. Uh, but like but those experiences has helped me build up to this this really soak it in. >> Do you when you look at your um your life outside of the bodybuilding and this is something I know you've you've dealt with a lot of uh a lot of guys coming up, girls coming up um where they let their life outside of bodybuilding fall apart because they're bodybuilding. You know, whether it be their home life, their business life, whatever that may be. Um, how do you manage that so well and and what advice do you have because I'm sure it wasn't always easy to do all of it, especially as a new father and all that stuff. I mean, you had a a whole new kink thrown in the mix of a very selfish game. How do you kind of make sure you're you're doing all those things? And do you find that having the extra things on the outside, the business, the wife, your your your daughter, does it make bodybuilding easier now that you've uh kind of put them all together? I think now, yeah, especially now it's been about a couple years and have found that balance. Um, especially with the communication aspect with your significant other and then of course I have to say just having such a good relationship with uh my wife Ivonne obviously mother of my child and how we can communicate and set up things for the daughter and everything. Um, but I do a really good job man like you know I've gotten really good at time management especially with the child. So, it's like, hey, you know, I have two hours in the gym. I am maximizing my two hours, right? You know, like, you know, there's there's less a little bit less talking, a little maybe maybe less warm-up set, a little less [\h__\h] like I, you know, we I only have a certain amount of time because I need to go spend time with my daughter or I need to go, you know, I need to go help my wife because she needs time to go do something. So, I've really been able to like, you know, when I get up in the morning, it's not, you know, taking your time to drink the cuff, you know, it's just like, hey, let's get out there. Let's get to work, right? in this in the training, get to work. Um, but also, you know, those evenings when I'm not, you know, when we're relaxing and stuff, I I don't I don't spend too much time like putting too much more bodybuilding in my head. And what I mean by that is like I'm not watching all too much extra clickers, like just YouTube all night of YouTube. I'm trying to actually zone out for a while. Like each day there should be more family things. Like you said, I'm also a big sports fan so I watch a lot of football. Um, something me and me and enjoy to do. We got the little Milliey's enjoying it now, too. She loves yells football. Yeah, we have our little things. We live right now um out here in Texas. We're actually on like three We're staying at my buddy's property and we have like four acres out there. So, we have four wheelers. I have a pond. >> Hell yeah. >> I have bonfires. So, we spend a lot of time outside. So, it's just I think it's also part of just maturing, too. You guys all know this. Like I said, when when we were in our 20s, it was just it was hard to get your head off of bodybuilding, right? saying it's not hard anymore. I mean, it's still hard. I mean, I'm, you know, 36 and that's all I'm thinking about all day, but I'm able to manage it better, right? And realize that there are more, you know, there are things there are relationships here in the next 40 years that I need to continue to build up and stuff. So, I I just feel right now I'm in that perfect balanced spot of, you know, half my time is full on bodybuild, half is family, and I I love where I'm at right now. >> I got to ask you about football. >> Yes. I spend Saturday and Sunday watching football. Go ahead. >> So, I I've I've always loved football, but I wasn't like a huge fan for like a big gap cuz I was like just paying attention to playoffs and oh yeah, I watch the highlights and stuff, but this year I'm watching football. I got my Sunday package. I got the games on. I'm fully into it. It's like I'm something I decided to do this year. So, why do you love the game? And are you a Texans fan now that you live in Houston or are you you're devoted to someone? I want to know who your team is. >> So, no, I am going to convert. Yeah, I guess I said with us moving so much lately, like I said, we moved to Denver. I became a Broncos fan even though they sucked for four years. Went to went to Florida. >> You had some legacy. You had some legacy. You could cheer, right? >> They sucked, but no. So, um I've just always been a big football fan. So, I grew up in the Midwest. I was from Iowa, so I was kind of a Vikings fan growing up, but now it's just kind of bouncing around in general. Um, I grew up, my dad was, my dad was a a PE teaching coach, so he had me in everything. I played four sports, everything growing up, and I ended up actually playing college football at a a smaller college in Iowa. Um, and so that was always my number one. Um, you know, since I was a little kid, I always wanted to play in the NFL and stuff. And I was pretty good. You know, I was an all state receiver, kick return receiver. I was a little quick guy. >> I was going to ask, yeah, you probably weighed what 170? >> Yeah, 170. Just juking everybody out of their shorts and then and then I just wasn't big enough to go into the NFL. So, that's when bodybuilding came into aspect. So, um but to this day, like I said, that's that's something that really takes my mind off of things. It it's just something that it's in my family. Coaching is in my family. Sports are in my family. So, um I think everybody can do a little bit better with some football on the weekends. I I want you to say because I I like hearing what people have to say about their favorite sport. Why is football such a great game? What is it about football that you love? I want you to break. >> You know what makes it such a good game is that there's only like I said it's it builds up to one game per week, which I think is very important. Like I said, it's you only have 17 games on the year. It's not like it's not like the other sports where it's baseball, basketball where they're playing every other night. Like each game means so much more. So, it's like everything is just an event. And I like how it has the tradition of like either Saturday or Sunday, right? So, it brings, you know, the community, the families, the fan bases, um, to that one important three-hour stretch, then you're done for a week. You know what I mean? It's not it's not too much. Then you get enough buildup for the next week and you're excited again. You go again. >> I think the NFL, just a sidebar, is an incredible business model. >> They have done absolutely everything right. And that is why they dominate and are by far the best of all the leagues as far as making money. And they own those times. Sunday, >> Monday Night Football. >> Yeah, they really do. >> Who else has um Who else? Like do you do you know is there Wednesday night hockey? >> There's Wednesday morning it's just bodybuilding. There's that. >> Wednesday morning it's just bodybuilding. >> Every Wednesday that's ours, >> right? >> Yeah. >> You left out Thursday. >> Yeah, they got Thursday night football. But like they own those times and it's just they've just done such a great job of like you know constructing all of the other stuff around making football part of like a lifestyle for the fans. >> Well, it's a huge and then now that they're bringing in like pop stars like Taylor, you know what I mean? Like they know they know what they're doing. It's it's an extreme business for sure. >> If you live in the South, it's actually more of a religion. But yeah, go ahead. >> It's not optional here. You move into town, the neighbor knocks on your door. >> Who's your team on Saturday? You're like, "What? What? What? What's happening?" >> Right? The neighbors need to know. You need to put a flag up. Are you the enemy or not? >> All I know is All I know is the long Longhorns are like two and one, but like they're not very happy with Arch Manning around here. So, I'm just kind of like, these people are serious around here. >> Oh, yeah. >> One one last football question. What do you think you learned from playing the game that you continue to use today? I played football as a kid, too. What What did football give you as an athlete and a and a person? >> Obviously, all those especially the lessons you learned, especially at the like I said, the the childhood level, high school level, but once I went to college and it became more of like, you know, you took a step up, um that's when it taught me a lot of life lessons, right? Like how to be a man. like when when they separate you into that when you go for the make that jump from high school sports to college sports and it becomes so much more organized. It becomes a year-long activity, right? Where you have an offseason, you're training all offseason. Um that's actually kind of what made me fall in love with bodybuilding to be honest with you guys is is the the full offseason lifting programs. So then I started working in the strength and the strength and conditioning department just to help them, you know, and that's where I learned a lot of my stuff as well, like programming and everything. And that's when I really started like they they could tell like you know I was staying after hitting a few bicep curls like why you doing why you >> oh [\h__\h] he's doing arms he's doing arms we're going to lose a receiver don't let him train calves if his calves blow up he's leaving >> coaches get insecure or something but they're like why why you train extra arms and but like that's when I started noticing I kind of like I'm looking a little bit bigger right you know this is paying off you know so that that was al always is really cool to me is I learned a lot there in the in the strength conditioning program um But also, man, like I said, just how to become a man, how to how to >> how to create a team atmosphere. Um, and then using each other in that in that regards, too. So, like we we did a lot of team bonding activities, things like that. Um, but also prepare you for the real world, man. I mean, that's what it does. You be a leader, you know? I was a team captain and things like that. I was in charge of, you know, 40 guys on myself and overseeing it. Um, and just being a leader and being a a man a man amongst boys for sure. >> Yeah. >> Love it. >> I One of my favorite things about that game is how >> if everyone just does their [\h__\h] job. >> It's the best. >> Right. >> So hard. >> It's so hard to get 11 people to all do their job right. And it's like a metaphor for owning a business. >> That's why Bellich was so good at it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, man. >> So, what are your plans for getting to Vegas? >> Let's talk about the it's coming up. When do you go? >> I'm heading in I'm going I'm flying in the Sunday before. So, going Sunday through Monday. >> So, you're going to spend the whole week out there. I just especially with the drier climate. I'm in Houston now, so it's it's it's I mean, I was in Florida before this, so it's very humid. So, we definitely need a little bit extra time to adjust just to get you, like I said, just the the climate and humidity is way less out there. >> Um, and also just enjoy the week, man. You know, they got feel like there's a new gym popping up in Vegas every time I look. >> Are you going to hit more than one gym or are you going to just lock down somewhere for four or five days? >> I think I'm going to definitely hit a few a couple gyms. I'm going to try out that new tech gym that's that just opened up. Um, we're staying on that south side of the strip there. So, that's kind of where all the gyms are. So, be bouncing around, make a make a full week of it, you know, have some fun. So, >> that's cool. Okay. >> That's cool. And I know that, you know, you you like you said, you have your day scheduled. You made this time for us, but we're catching you before you train today. What's the what's the workout plans for today? >> Back workout. We got It's a big one. >> Back. Yeah, we I took yesterday. I I've been trying to take Sundays off. Um which has been awesome because we found a nice local church the day of Sabbath. So, um, last this past week I went I think I went Monday through Saturday, trained all the way through and then yesterday it hit me, man. I was >> I was feeling it yesterday. So, it was it was a Sunday church day and I laid on the couch for about 12 hours yesterday. >> What What will you guys do today for back? People are going to want to know. I just know >> I know right away my training partners go, "You didn't ask them what the workout's going to be." >> No. Yeah. We So, you got to hit all the angles of the back, right? So, we got to we got to blow it up first. We got to get wide and we got to get blood in the muscles. So, this we're going to train at a gym called Texas Iron Republic today. So, this is going to more a little bit more old school equipment. That's why we've been liking it. Um, but they got the old Nautilus pullover. You know, this one start with that. Get them lats warmed up, right? >> You got to make that sound, too. >> It does. >> The chain makes that sound. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Um, then, you know, they got these these a couple other old piec Li T. >> Yeah. the old precore plate loaded stuff. >> I've got one 10 ft away from me right now. Man, >> we There's two bag machines in there called these flight pieces. I've never even seen. We love it. Kind of like comes in and like tucks in, you know? >> Yeah. The circular movement ones. They're all circular movement. >> That's a precore plate loaded, right? Is it plate loaded? >> Yes. Yeah. >> Yeah. That's AI think Precore makes the flight line, but that's old plate loaded. >> I've got the chest machine. It's converging and it's heavy as hell. It is beautiful. The Yeah, it feels really nice. Is it that incline one, Scott? >> Up there and it's back. I gotta look more into it. That's >> I got Mine's the flat. I could have bought either of them. I went with the flat, but you can incline the bench a little bit. So, it it's good. I like the flat feeling better. All right. Yeah, we can do that next. You got the machine next. Yeah. >> Pull downs on the flight and then we're going to do some single arm rows, >> some isolation rows there. And then we have the new >> um that gym got that new mega mass, that tea bar row. Have you guys seen that one? >> Yeah. The one where you're kind of standing on the floor, but you're chest supported. >> It's chest where you're standing over and it just drives straight. >> Yeah. And it's it's on rails, right? >> Yeah. It's on a track. >> It's it's it's it's very nice. So, >> the one on the bearings, right? It's got the the linear bearings. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yep. So, we run that and then we got a nice stripe, an old prime piece of uh this strive now. Uh just a row machine there that will go for upper back. >> Okay. Um and then we'll finish with some lower there's some some um bin overs there. >> Okay. Okay. >> Nice. Going to need a nap. >> It sounds easy on paper. You know what I mean? Like >> some pullovers, a few pull downs. We'll get a pump. >> Yeah. >> Talk to some girls. Lean on some machines. >> We'll end up being in there for about two and a half hours yelling at each other. >> That's what friends are for. >> That's right. >> It's awesome, man. What do you think is something that people waste their time thinking about while they're training, worrying about? Like, are you guys looking at the clock between sets or you just resting till your breath is good or you like is there anything that you don't do that people say you're supposed to do or you just >> I can honestly say in 15 years of training like I've never once I've never once timed my rest periods in between my sets ever in my life. and and I never will either. You know what I mean? Like it if you don't have that internal clock or if you don't just have that motivation of what you need to do, um you don't need a clock to tell you that, you know what I mean? So that's something I think people time up a little bit too much. It should be more focused on the intent and then the effort into the set instead of your exact rest period, you know? Um I I think some people worry too much about like EAAstiming and BCA timing. Have you ever seen people like that that just like >> Oh, yeah. They're like, "It's like 3:15. I gotta go get my 15 grams of EAS into this minute and stuff." Yeah. >> I was with I was with one guy I was actually with a guy over in when I was competing over in Spain. >> And um he was actually kind of driving me around and like he was getting coached by Patrick Tour and I'm like Patrick Tour is playing. It was like have six grams of EAS at 217 p.m. You know, it's the first time I've ever seen any of like Patrick Tour stuff, you know? I mean like this is this is literally what the plan said. So, we're like driving and like I think he was taking me to the gym or something. You know, I'm a couple days out. I'm just zombieed out. Like pulls over on the side of the road and like starts making like a drink and I'm like, "What are you doing, man?" And he's just like, "Oh, I got to take my EAS right now. It's 217, you know?" And I'm like, "Oh, we're 15. We're 12 minutes from the gym. Can't you just drink it and get to the gym?" Like, "No, it has to go right now." I'm saying no. >> Your body knows what time it is for sure. >> That was that was a good one. I I haven't seen too many of those. But um but overall just in general, man. I think I think a lot of people overthink overthink of a lot of stuff, especially leg day leg day anxiety. >> You know what I mean? They come into it. Do you do you guys get any leg anxiety anymore? >> I still do, man. I I think that I actually I my goal because I've been training. And I'm waiting for a new hip. I actually have to get a new hip. So, I got these things I have to train a certain way so I can train. But I I try to do at least a set every leg workout that gives me anxiety because that is like I feel like I'm not a bodybuilder anymore if I let that go. Like that's the last like I'm clinging to a rope just hanging on to be attached to what I love. And if I don't have an anxiety set on leg day, like a set of hacks or something that gets me, oh [\h__\h] If I don't have that, I just I don't know. I feel like I would be letting go of a part of me. So, >> you just need that little >> drift away like that little CNS tab. You're like, >> "Yeah." Yeah. Yeah. You know, >> make sure I still got it. >> Yeah. Yeah. I don't want it to just drift away on me, you know? >> Yeah. I think that that's when you know you're in the middle of it is when the night before you start going, "Oh, that's tomorrow." >> Yeah. >> But in But you're looking forward to it. It's not a bad thing, but you just know tomorrow me and my friends are going to kick the [\h__\h] out of each other. >> And it's going to be horrible and we're so excited. >> I I I've told this story on the show many times, but Brett, you might love this. I went through a phase of very specific time. It was um I had it was 2000. I was getting ready for my first nationals and it was the off seasonason, so I wasn't dieting yet, but it was like my first nationals. I was training as mental as you could imagine a young kid in the year 2000, you know, watching Ronnie videos and just myself and um I started I was puking after leg day and I just thought, man, I I just every single time I train legs, I throw up. And uh you know, people were telling me you're training too hard or you're doing something wrong. And I was like, "Well, [\h__\h] I'm eating like an hour and a half before and I'm hydrated and but I was throwing up on leg day." And then I started puking before my leg workout. >> Oh god, that's not good. >> I'm not a doctor or anything, but that's not good. >> And and my my my best friend, who was also my training partner, he's like, "What do you think's causing that?" And I'm like, "Oh man, I don't know." And then I realized I was just getting myself so [\h__\h] anxious for legs. Like I was put doing it to myself. I was putting so much pressure on myself and just, you know, you know, back then we're using the 2 and a half pound plates to progress every week. You know, you're looking in your I had it all logged out and >> I had to like try to calm myself down because I threw up before my leg workout for like weeks weeks and I and I realized it was all here. I was just like driving myself over a cliff with anxiety and it was it was insane. Looking back on it, I'm like, I don't know what I would have to do now to just make myself vomit. Like, how stressed out was I? >> I'm glad you said that cuz I think that's more common than you think. Like, I I experienced that. I I've thrown up a few times overthinking a leg workout in the past. >> It's been a while, but definitely definitely like, you know, it was one of those sessions where it's like I got to hit these numbers today and, you know, and then like I end up puking and I was like, well, [\h__\h] now I can't train because I ate puked all my food. Yeah, this is not going to help me hit those numbers. >> This isn't going to help me at all. But no, I I think that's more common than you actually think. But it also like it just shows but also shows how [\h__\h] important this is to us, right? >> Y >> really does, man. Like you you you know people if people listening to this have never listened to a bodybuilding podcast and we're sitting here saying that we're throwing up because we're so excited to train legs, you got to be a little twisted, man. >> Well, where are you at with that now, Brett? Is that like cuz you initially like the the topic was like things that you don't do and I you asked us you're like do you guys get that? So where do you stand with it now cuz you feel like you know it seems like you got like everything's pretty well wired. You're cruising into the Olympia and obviously like when we see your training man you're absolutely nuts but like talking to you right now you're real chill. >> Yeah. And we did see Martin leaning over the garbage can. >> Yeah we did see that. Yeah. >> Right. >> I had him going pretty good. Yeah. Uh, no. Like I said, like with this prep, it's been that hasn't been an issue at all in regards to that. Maybe a little bit earlier in prep when you're further out now that now you're three weeks out. Just it just I mean, everyone's going to have those sessions, right? Like we're still trying to be the best in the world. So, you're going to put so much pressure on yourself sometimes. Um, but like it is about what like Ron said is what I started doing if I feel those feelings again. And like I said, it's been a couple years since I've done it, but I still felt that again like driving gym like I'm like getting a little anxious, you know, just soothing, slowing it down, taking some deep controlled breaths, right? Um and then and then, you know, reminding yourself what you're working for, right? And take it slow at the beginning like a lot of lot of feeder sets to get going. Settle down the mood. That's what it usually takes me is get like the first 20 minutes get the mind right. Um and then it'll follow after that. But I was just making sure cuz I know you guys are like me and I I knew Ron probably had a little anxious story I wanted to hear. >> You got it out of him. Well done. Yeah. It's funny when I was in the heart of it. I actually learned that because I never trained with headphones. I always had partners so I was never listening to anything. And I found if I listened to things that were more relaxing instead of pumping up that which was in the gym, it would help. So, like before hard sets, I would actually turn on the opposite of what anyone would think >> just to kind of like mellow it down and just let my body do the the nasty part, you know? Take your brain out of it, you know? Nothing like a little mermaid to kind of get you going. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Put on the Lion King like JP. >> Yeah, exactly. >> Hey, Scott, what's your phone number real quick? >> Oh, I'll give it to you off the air. How about that? I'll text it to you. >> No, no. Get him on the air. >> We have some wackos listening. So, >> what is your social also? >> What's your password? >> No, I'm going to send you a This is actually We're talking about this, but >> I had AI had a really nice bloody nose set two days ago. >> Great. Yes, we can. >> I'll get it for after the show. I'll drop it in postprouction. We're sitting here talking about how we're calmer and stuff now and then you guys are about to see my nose explode. >> Calmer, more rational. Brett Wilin, >> it's going to be a bloody one. >> Let's go. >> Come on, Brett. Come on. Let's go. Come on, Brett. Let's go, [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Come on. How about you want it? >> Yes, sir. >> Oh, [\h__\h] >> I didn't see on that side. >> The one bleeding out of his face in the gym. That calm. >> Telling you how much more calmer I am now. Then you got this. >> I think back to like I remember like going to the front desk and being like, "Can I have the Windex?" And then spraying the mirror and wiping the blood off the mirror. >> I remember doing that. Wiping blood off the mirror in front of the squat rack. I did that many times when I was young. It just think >> first couple wipes it and smears and you keep, >> you know, it's kind of coming out your nose, but you got two reps left and then it Yeah. You just keep going though. I have some videos of that on on like deadlifts or where it just keeps going and then you post it and someone's like, >> "Is that blood pooling?" You're like, "Yeah, >> I wasn't done." >> You just see this if if you watch closely, you just watch a pool underneath of you keep going and then you just rack the weight like nothing. >> I think my back to the gym owner, you know, I never filmed it or posted it, so he didn't need to know about it. >> Yeah, mine goes straight up. I know. It's fine. Okay. I got some uh rapid fire stuff before we let you go, Brett. This is the uh Oh, go ahead. Oh, yeah. >> I got a gym story since we were talking about blood and stuff in the gym. >> Perfect. Stay longer. Yeah. Yeah. >> Craziest craziest thing I've seen in the gym with with an accident is it was actually in college football and it was like a max out day, you know, max out days in college football >> and those football guys are rough, too. The form is not perfect. >> Our our big our big boy, he he was an offensive lineman and he he's actually a world's strongest man now. Um, I gotta think of his name. I'll think of it here. But yeah, that's what he does now. But he was so [\h__\h] strong. So we're all, you know, we're behind him. He's doing hang cleans, right? And he's hang cleaning probably 365, 400. I don't know. He, like I said, he was, he was huge. >> Yeah. >> So he does a hand clean and, you know, like you're on a platform and there's actually a mirror on the wall behind him, right? So he does it, throws the hand clean up, ends up falling back, going into the mirror, falls into the mirror, the mirror shatters behind him, pieces of glass come down, stick into his traps. They just stick they just stop in his traps. He's standing, he drops the bar, there's glass sticking out. He like brushes it off. There's blood running down his back. And our strength coach comes out and he he like comes running over. He's like, "Clean this [\h__\h] [\h__\h] up." >> But he got the rest. >> The bud is about the guy. It was hilarious. But that was that was badass seeing a guy hang clean 400 lb and then fall into a mirror and then watch the mirror fall into him. >> How long was this like a foot was it like a foot long piece of mirror sticking? I'm envisioning like a foot long piece of glass just sticking out of his trap. >> Yeah, it was a good shard. Like he had Yeah, he had to get stitches and everything. It was crazy. >> But he got the rep is what I want everyone to remember. >> That's right. >> I think I've got a sliver. >> Remixed his name. He's the world's strongest man now. Yeah. >> That's amazing. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Rapid fire. >> Okay. So, here's some rapid fire. These are like the This is a basic [\h__\h] bodybuilding rapid fire, right? This is Starbucks cinnamon latte at Halloween or pumpkin spice. Like this is basic. Okay. Favorite cheat meal? >> Uh peanut butter and jelly burger. >> Nice choice. >> I've never had that. I've seen it on the menu. I've never been daring enough to try it. I'm always like, I'll just go with the basic burger. You know, >> it's unique. It's It's unique. It's one of those you got to try to to believe in it. >> Doesn't sound like you'd want it. Trust me, you >> It's a good combo. >> That's That sounds like Yeah, that sounds like saying like like chicken oatmeal. >> Like that's a weird combo. >> But for Ron, he doesn't eat anything on his burger either. So, there is that. You know, >> Ron doesn't get an opinion on this move forward plain guy. >> Peanut butter and jelly burger. Well, you get the most original >> the burger and they they do an egg and then on the BUN it's peanut butter and jelly and that's all it it I can't explain why it's good. It's just so [\h__\h] good. >> So, it's breakfast and lunch >> and all together snack and a snack >> and a snack. >> They serve it with milk. Just kidding. >> Just to really throw me off. >> Throw in one more thing. Boom. >> You can tell I haven't had a cheat meal in 12 weeks. >> Where would you go for that? Is that like your favorite spot serves at? Is that what that is? Or is that like a secret meal that you make at home? >> I've made them before. Or I I make my own. But no, you usually I would just find a certain restaurant that does it. >> You can Dusty goes, "You can get those anywhere." Like, "What do you mean? Any good burger place has a peanut butter jelly." >> Those good burgers. Dusty knows what's up. >> I'm a fat guy. >> Okay. Yeah, he is. >> You know, he knows where the mac and cheese is taken. He knows where the peanut butter jelly burgers are. >> There you go. >> What else does a man need? >> I will say this. I will say this. Dusty has never once taken me to a bad restaurant. Fact. I I believe that he's he's a foodie. >> You'll like this place. Works every time. >> Works every time. >> Okay. Most overhyped exercise. [\h__\h] >> Most overhyped. >> Why are people doing this? Don't waste your time. >> Um >> drives me crazy. >> Just traditional bench press to be honest with you. >> I think I think you get I think enough ah I take that back. Sorry. Sorry. Because now I'm just speaking in bodybuilding terms. I think the bench press is very important early in your career, especially if you're doing strength and in for sports and everything, too. >> Yeah. Right. >> Let me think. >> You stumped him. >> He's been stumped. >> He's comes back with like a a philosopher answer. They're all important and none of them are important. No, I just for me specifically, I mean, I don't do obviously do much specific glute work because I think a lot of that can be hitting your training, right? So, in like squatting, so I don't need to be doing no glutenator and things like that. Um, you can get all that from your lunges and your glute work like that in general. So, I think a lot of that is just right or just people being lazy. They don't want to do the harder exercises. >> I agree. >> Right. I I feel that way about a couple of things that are really big right now. Mhm. >> Um, most underrated exercise. >> Most underrated exercise. Man, I've been doing this one lately. Um, it's just like a shoulder press. So, like I I've been realizing because I've really been trying to bring up my interior delts. Um, and I've been switching it up from just instead of just doing your traditional pressing, right? I've been doing kind of a cable press. So, I'll get the cable right here and I'll press through this way. I can just truly fully feel my my interior delts. I just get in this zone right here and just keep pressing through here. Especially especially when dieting coming down, you know, getting getting in that detail and stuff, but I've been just blowing those up lately. Just getting, like I said, like a big just a cable press right here, getting underneath it, pressing through the delts. >> Are you using one cable or two cables? Like what are you doing? >> One cable. One cable. >> Oh, what are you holding? Like a triangle bar? >> I just get Yeah. an attachment. You may even maybe a little bit longer. Um, but just get really close underneath your chain and just press through right here. Are you standing? You're standing. >> I I I go seated. I go seated right up next to a cable. Yep. Or on your knees. You can go on your knees, too. >> Oh, okay. It's like a good finisher. Blast them out. >> Never did that. >> Yep. >> So, I'll do that one and then also do like the landmine presses right here for chest. >> I'll hit specific interior and then specific mid to thick upper chest there. >> I I have problems pressing overhead. Like I I don't press overhead every shoulder workout. I do those double cable like anterior raises. >> Those have been great. >> I think you should try this one. Like I said, it's not your traditional press, but it isolates it better and and you don't have as much shoulder issues, too. >> Do you ever do those John Meadows six ways? >> Yeah, those are >> I actually Sorry, one quick story again. I remember going up to John one time because back when I was really into it and I was like inventing exercises. I thought I was. You know what I mean? You know, you know, you you you make something, but then you realize, oh, this was made like 30 years ago. But anyway, one time we meet up with John somewhere and I'm like, John, I've been doing this exercise. I call them swimmer shoulders. I got to show you this, man. It's my favorite. >> You're going to impress him, right? You're like ready to impress him. >> I call them swimmer shoulders. He's like, "Let me see him." And I'm so I'm like like I love these like you know you hit the rears, you hit the top, you hit and he goes, "Yeah, those are called sixways." And I go, "Oh." >> And I have a YouTube video that's three years old where I'm demonstrating them. >> I go, "Oh, so you've already invented this." Okay. That's funny you brought that up. That's a that's a true story right there. I was like, "Okay, well, yeah, I'm never going to try to invent anything again cuz it's already been invented." >> You're probably I can imagine it, too. You're probably like, "I'm going to show him this. He's going to be blown away." You know, >> it's like telling Jimmyi Hendris, I got a new cord. I got this new cord I got to show you. >> That was a good one. >> Oh, man. Okay. Uh, shout out to uh, you know, sponsors. Who Who's your crew? I know you got a whole like you got the pride hat on. I see. You know what's >> Yes, Sean. I mean, I eat pounds on pounds of rice and grinds, cream of rice every day. So, shout out to Sean. Of course, Gas and Better Bodies, you know, I've been with them for a long time and love everything they're doing over there. Um, I am also with this I was telling Dusty this the other day, but I'm with Leader Formulas now. So, this is they're based out of here in Houston. My buddy owns the company and I'm actually helping him develop products now. So, this is something new I'm getting into. I'm really excited about, you know, we got a couple pre-workouts already, couple different pre-workouts and stuff, but um I'm going to be in charge of creating a protein ahead as well as an intra-workout. I've always wanted to kind of do my own kind of like an int, you know what I mean? Like, yeah, come up with something that I truly believe in. So, this has became a great opportunity for me to branch into the supplement side of the world that I always wanted to do, too. So, this has been good for me um um with Leader Formulas um as well as obviously uh like I said, Pride Foods Revive all all my team here um and we're killing it out here, guys. >> Hell yeah. >> I love the bodybuilder in business. >> Yes, sir. >> I'm going to throw one more. This completely off topic. Now, she didn't expect me to ask this, but Victoria has been coming up with some good off-topic questions for us. This has nothing to do with anything, but I want to get the answer from all three of you guys. All right. >> Oh, boy. Was 8 Mile a musical? >> Wow. You're right. I wasn't ready. I was not ready. [\h__\h] I only saw 8 Mile once. I can't remember how many actual minutes of music are in it because there's like a line. >> I I don't think it's a musical. There's enough gap between songs. >> Okay. Okay. There was also no weird dancing involved with the >> Yeah. No chorus line. Background people weren't dancing. Reality wasn't suspended while they entertained us. >> I'm from Detroit, so I But I never saw it. So I don't really get a say. Brett, you get the final answer in this one. >> Saw it. >> No, I never saw. >> I'm going to say no because if we asked Eminem, he would tell us to [\h__\h] off. >> Thank you. Thank you. I know a musical when I see it because I like immediately horrified that they're singing five minutes in. >> Yeah. Why did this happen? I've actually bumped we we've went to shows that I didn't know. >> Well, didn't you go to Joker and Yes. >> I could have left immediately. >> I didn't know Joker 2 was a musical to you. >> So irritated. >> Nobody told me this. It was Yeah, never mind. Sorry. >> Sorry. I figured we were There's the answer. I watched the whole eight mile and loved it. >> All right. >> And I and I couldn't get out of the Joker 2 fast enough. >> Okay. Okay. >> We're ending on that note. >> There you go, Scott. >> Thank you. >> Thanks, Brett. I'm ex extremely excited for the Olympia this year. There's going to be a lot of great things to pay attention to and a lot of guys that we know and we want them all to do well and kick each other's asses. And you know, >> I feel like this has been like, it doesn't it seem like every year there's like four or five guys that like drop out, right? Usually I'm like, this we're stacked, man. >> We got four or five Mr. Olympia there. Like, this is going to be a fun show, man. >> It's a completely different era than it used to be. Like, you know, there used to like having multiple Mr. Olympias repeatedly in the same Olympia is not not something we've ever had until this this era post 2020, you know, >> and it it really changes the game and makes things super exciting and and you know it must be exciting for all the other guys in the show too cuz like you know when there's only one defending champion in the show, it's different than when there's like three or four Mr. Olympias, you're like I might beat a few Mr. Olympias, you know, like there's that. Some guys have that in their head like I might be able to take out a couple of Mr. grows here, you know? So, >> yeah. I mean, I feel like, you know, back six, seven, eight years ago, like that that's what Phil that was kind of his that's what made him who he was cuz he was the only one winning, right? So, like he kind of just kept that over everybody's a little bit ahead, you know, and like he's almost like a mythical creature. But now, like I said, you got these guys all beat each other at least once, right? So, like it's it's very exciting. We have no idea. >> In six months. >> Yeah. Right. >> We're swapping all over the place every few months. Totally different game, man. So, it's gonna be excit excited to see you guys out there. Hopefully, we're new to you and stuff. So, >> yeah. Yeah. Thanks very much for your time. I mean, you know, we understand uh where you're at mentally and like you said, you had done a podcast in a long time, so it's really, you know, really appreciate that you hop on with us and [\h__\h] for >> an hour and an hour and 14 minutes. >> Perfect. >> So, good times. Okay. Hey, and if I ever come to Houston to check out one of these gyms, um I would absolutely make sure it was uh during the football season. I want to go to a game, so I'll let you know. >> Let's do it. >> Okay. >> I'm going in a couple weeks or I'm going a week after the Olympia. >> Oh, okay. Good. Good. Okay. Brett Wilin, everybody, thanks for coming on the show. We appreciate it. Mr. Olympia Bound, no one knows what he looks like. Brett Wilin, everybody. That was good. It was good to talk to him again, you know. >> Absolutely. >> I uh We had him on once before, didn't we? Like >> some time ago. Some >> Were you on the show, Scott? Was that >> I don't even think I was at the time. No. No. >> Maybe you weren't on. Maybe I was half in the bag dead. Who knows? But >> I don't know. Yeah, it's been a while, man. >> No, that's cool. He uh you know, true bodybuilder, >> hardcore guy, easy to chat with. I hope he does uh really well at the O. It would be great to see him like, you know, show up his absolute best ever and knock some skulls, you know. >> I see it happening. >> Yeah. >> Yeah, I'm excited. >> Yeah. Okay. Remember everybody, like, share, subscribe, comment, and >> ring the bell. >> And remember, immutant.com. Order your stuff. It comes really quick. You're going to be blown away how fast it shows up. Avoid people. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your mind fk. And of course, everyone should get on the gear. Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. Support it. Support the show. Support us. >> Thank you very much. Remember the Patreon. Think big Patreon. >> Thank you guys. >> You know, keep a producer home. Got to keep that running. And we appreciate all the support on all the shows. I like the Think Big channel. Scott, what's the update on the Think Big channel? It's just it's going great. >> Oh, we're doing really good, man. Everything. And And you know what, too? It's our community is freaking awesome. just we get the coolest people commenting uh and supporting us and we've got all the people over on Spotify now too that I was unaware of. So uh I've been trying to put up uh polls on Spotify too which is fun. So if you're listening on Spotify, we could definitely appreciate the love over there. Leave us comments and uh you can even um what is it? They have like a you could leave us like a fivestar review would be awesome on Spotify because that'll help to boost us up so that other people find us over there, you know. >> Yeah. Yeah, much appreciated. Okay, remember everybody, it's just bodybuilding.