The reality is that even with a slowester, it's going to peak in your bloodstream in about 36 hours. So levels are in there relatively quickly. So if you have a look, what you've got is fast acting at the bottom and slow acting at the top. Okay? And you'll note that there's very very actual little difference between the injection point which is where it's down at the bottom and the initial peak they they happen quite quick. Now that peak on the slow act at the top is 36 hours and the peak at the bottom is somewhere between 12 and 24. What's up guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNeely and all of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK and you're on gear, then you're going to need to get your labs done and you can do that at evalbloodanalysis.com. Plus Dave will give you an evaluation on everything. And uh you know, you're support local. Support local. Support Dave. We're also brought to you by Strongports Nutrition. If you're in the UK, you can continue to support local by shopping with Stum. They've got some great cycle support products. Especially if you're on cycle, you're going to need to go to strumsports.com. We're brought to you by trinutrition.com in the US. Use our code think here for high quality supplements, everything that you could need. Uh get your creatin, get your uh your hydrayed beef collagen. That's what I buy from them every month. I'm also using their creatin and I use their weight isolate occasionally. Now, I still buy the team skip blend of protein, too. Everything you need. And last but not least, supplements.ca CA for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. We've got some Patreon questions today. Thank you guys for your support over at Patreon. Dave, we didn't get our Halo testing uh profile done because my house almost burned down that one month. Remember? Yes, I do. Yeah, I I I I am shocked that you didn't suggest that people came to EVA for the he hemoglobin doing, but never mind. Hemoglobin. Hemoglobin. Get your hemoglobin checked. That's the new thing. That's the new term. That's what all the cool kids are calling. Hemoglobin. All right. So, Halo Testin, I have a ton of my own personal experience with it as a former competitor. Um, but you know, I'd love to hear from you. I mean, let's hear a little bit of the little bit of the background of it. Um, there's a lot to say, man. It's not a it's not a compound I'd recommend to everybody. It has very limited application. First of all, it's an oral. It's a DHT. Um, generally used at the very end of a contest prep or in some type of like a powerlifting scenario. You know, it's uh it's one of the few compounds that I would say really does induce I hate the term roid rage. It you could define that as you will, but I feel like makes you angry. Yeah. Little spicy. Little spicy on the on the halo. Yeah. So, uh fluoxymesterone is its um name. I won't I don't know. I'll try it again. Hang on. Okay. 9 alpha fluo 11 beta 17 dihydroxy 17 alpha methyl 4 androstin 31 is its proper name. Wow. Wow. So send that to send that to your gear dealer and ask him for a tub of that and see what he says. Yeah. Um when you look at Halo on paper, it it promises the world. I mean it it's got a ridiculously high anabolic to and ratio. We took 1,900 anabolic to 850 androgenic, but in reality it doesn't pan out. Um, in fact, it's it's muscle building effectiveness is is quite mild. Good strength drug, good hardener, uh, good for aggression, which has made it popular in powerlifting and strongman, you know, and those sports where you need that on the day performance edge. Mhm. It's always been very popular for those things along with with Milboron or cheque drops. Same thing just different names. Uh but yeah, it's also used pre-stage as a um a drug to try and harden up a physique for one of a better terminology. Uh seen people use it to break through plateaus because that aggressive strength boost it can give as well. It's not something you're going to use long term, you know. It it is it is again it's and out of the orals it's one of the harsher compounds when it comes to stress. Oh yeah. It's not something uh medical wise it's used for delayed puberty uh which might surprise a few people. Um actually some cancer treatments for women as well. Um but you don't really see it common place. Yeah. Um I think it was sold under a brand name far pharmaceutically as Ultra Drain or Ultra Drain or something like that. Something like that. I remember reading that name. I never personally saw that packaging. Yeah. No, I haven't. I've Well, I mean, I've never actually personally used it, so I can't really add much more than that to it. Um, it doesn't aromatize, so there's no estrogen concerns. It's not affected by five alpha particularly, so there's no issues there either. And I don't it I don't think there's really much else. So, it it would be over to you and and sort of what you've uh experienced personally. Well, I can tell you this, you know, it's it's an odd it's an interesting compound because I've never used it in a vacuum, including working with clients. It's never been like, okay, we're running nothing and now we're running, you know, fluoxy master loone, which we never call it that. We just call it Halo, right? Um I I've never I've never had that. Instead, what it is is it's at the very end of a contest prep where we're also So, you're already on probably three to four injectables, possibly one oral, and now you're using another oral on top of that for the last 10 days. you're manipulating water at this point. And I don't necessarily mean like through water intake, just that as that last couple weeks as the physique really starts getting its shape and the water starts falling off, you're seeing daily changes. How much of those changes is related to the fact that we added in, you know, 10 milligs of halo. Now, how have we used it? It has been in a situation exactly like that where let's say the overarching cycle is something like 16 weeks out test 10 weeks out mast e 6 to 8 weeks out a low dose of trend then four 3 to 4 weeks out uh uh windstrol we'll say 40 50 millig and then uh halo maybe for the last 10 days at 10 to 20 millig and that's it. So, you know, it's great for strength, but one of the things is is if you're only using it for the last 10 days, you're not doing any hard training at that point. We don't want you to take any risks, you know. Um, I had honestly taken it every contest prep starting from my first one because I just it just in case, you know, I had used it at various doses. First time was 10 milligrams for the last 2 weeks or 3 weeks. Uh second time was 10 and then 20 and 20 and then I went from 20 to 30 to 40 and when I did that that was too much for me. I have heard of people using more uh some coaches are bigger fans of orals toward the end and they will push those orals hard and yeah they are stressful. 30 seems to be the common sort of cap point that most people run to. I above that I don't see it very often of most people 2030 is where they seem to sit at on I have I have seen people do it higher in cases where it's a coach that really favors heavier orals toward the end. Um, I've seen them push it to maybe 50 a day, you know, with a 100 winstrol, something like that. Now, I haven't had much experience with it for strength in strength sports. I have used it with MMA guys, and generally, it's not something that we really necessarily need to load. There is certainly a um a preworkout effect from Halo. you know, you will get more aggression when you've taken Halo. Um, you know, so there is a benefit like you said, breaking through plateaus. If you're training Jordan Peter style, right, and you're close to the end, you're like at that red line point, maybe you cycle in Halo for two weeks, something like that at a low dose, take it on training days only, or maybe just specific training days through the week. you know, we can also kind of save off some of the health issues by not taking it as frequently, right? The less often you take it, the lower the dose, the safer you're potentially going to be, right? So, I mean, there's those options. I would say that out of everything, Dave, trend definitely would affect my mood to a degree. In fact, oh, I got to come back to this. Casey, one of our listeners and a client of mine had uh some thoughts on trend that I want to mention to you in a minute. But Halo being the other one. And Halo I just even if it didn't put me in a bad mood, I just felt more irritable. Kind of like when you're overheating. It's hard to be in a good mood if you're too hot feeling. You know what I mean? And it it just made me feel like that. I have that effect with dieting. Yeah. Even Even the thought of dieting puts me in a bad mood. Really? Yeah. It's it's pathetic. It's ridiculous. I make no excuses for it. Even if if I said like right I'm going to start a diet in a week's time, two weeks time, I'm going to be a see you next Tuesday person. Yeah. Yeah. Um for that whole time because I know it's coming. Al Alendrin. Alendrin. I guess that's how you'd say it. U L T A N D R E N. That was the brand name you had mentioned. Yeah. Al Yeah. Yeah. Aladden. Al Yeah. Something like that. ALT. Yeah, Alendrin. I don't know. I want to call it ultra something because it sounds cool. Yeah, it's quite ultra, you know, and like we said, DHT compound. Um, and what do they say here? It was first described in 1956 and it was introduced for medical use in 57. Sounds about right. Yeah, definitely improves physique performance and it is a controlled substance in many countries and so non-medical use is generally illicit. Yeah, it's a Halo's hell of a drug man. I'll leave it at I'll leave it at that. Um I mentioned Casey said something funny. I I wonder if I can pull it up here real quick. It was his thoughts on trend. Um it was over at the Facebook group. By the way, guys, if you want to take part in the programmings, you can comment. We have We're going to get into your listener questions. We've got a bunch of listener questions here. Um, I don't see it offhand, but the gist of it was he said something along the lines of, you know, my experience. Here it is. My experience with trend. I think that everything is normal when I'm on it. However, once I get off of it, I look back and ask myself, how in the hell did I think that was normal? Yeah. You know, that's very much an issue across anabolics across the board. We don't tend to see the changes, but obviously trend is one of the more extreme compounds for having changes in in the way we act and and our mental health approach to things. But yeah, it's it also changes your perception of risk as well. That's another thing anabolics can do. Make us more risk risk takingaking. Really? H. Yeah. You know what, man? I feel I I feel like I was the opposite. Honestly, I feel like in some ways in some ways. Meaning, you you've got to look at this though when when research you've got to look at this from, you know, a drug or non-drug use perspective. You know what I mean? I mean, just the the process of taking anabolics is regarded as being raking. So, good point. Good point. You've got to look at it from the the norm perspective rather than a user perspective though. Um that that's one of I think sometimes that's one of the issues is people look at these things and don't realize that from a clinical point of view you're looking at it as you know if you're using anabolics you're already in a risky scenario clinically based. Yeah. If you're using anabolics that you created through a coffee filter in your bathroom then you're taking even more risks. And that's what we used to do to get our trend back in the day. Well, exactly. And and it's I think people forget that, you know, even though labs generally are fairly decent, you know, the recent raw situation has has shown that there's still issues can arise and and it's it's still an unregulated, uncontrolled, untested, you know, product. You know, it is could literally be anything as far as we know. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, speaking of which, we have to get that researcher from Australia back on because they've found a lot of data. Let don't I reach out to him, see if he's around for next week. They found a lot of data around contamin around contamination um in their products in Australia. So, that that'd be cool to talk to them about, see what they found. But listen, like I said guys, if you have any questions that you'd like to ask us, comment below. Plus, you know, comments, likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost us in the algorithm. Now, it doesn't necessarily mean that you'll see us more, but it will help other people to find us. So, if you do enjoy the show and you haven't hit the like button yet, then please do because it it really does help more than you know. We appreciate your help. And don't forget the the contributions to the ProCharger fund as well. Oh, yeah. Dave needs a procharger for his truck and that's going to make him happier on the podcast so that he doesn't yawn, so he doesn't have a bad attitude. We had somebody comment and I think he thought his comment didn't go through. So, he commented again two times and it said something like, "I have never seen somebody who is more looks more disinterested to be on a podcast than this man." That's very true. Yes. There. Listen though, there are people who think that's true. They're like, "Hey, everybody's real positive, but that British guy, he seems like he just doesn't even like to be here. I don't know. He's got a bad attitude all the time. I don't like that show cuz he's just always in a bad mood. Who said that? We really did have somebody say that recently and they don't. No, I know there isn't one, but how many people have said that I've got a bad attitude occasionally? Like they'll they'll be the random person that says this that from time time to time. I'm going to I'm going to give you a bad attitude now. [\h__\h] a lot of you, right? That's how it is, right? Look what you guys did now. All right, listen. And we're going to get into our listener questions. And if you guys have more of them, you're welcome to to chime in. We do have a live stream here. And uh if you guys want to take part in the live stream and comment there. I see a couple questions. We'll definitely take your questions, too. Look at that. We even have an Australian with us. Um what about this one? I'm just going to go straight to the stream. Masked for estro conversion and quality muscle year round. So like basically putting it as part of your your cruise program. Um yeah, I mean it it's it's as we've discussed u several times unless you're an outlier it is a ser like action for estrogen control. There are a few outliers that it will lower estrogen in, but h for the vast populace, it's just going to block it. I'm not There are plenty of people that promote running lowd do primo, lowd dose mass with with a slightly higher than TRT dosing of test year round. I'm not one of them. I don't agree with it. I know other people do. I'm happy to accept that. But for me, TRT should be TRT and that's it. Uh, it should be a dose that gives you a healthy but natural range. I'm not a fan of going above. I don't agree with going above because that's when the negatives start to creep in. That's when management starts to become more of an issue. And I genuinely feel that when you run TRT high, you actually impact your subsequent cycles because you're creating a load of stress in the body 247 and that that stress becomes counterproductive when it comes to growth. All right. Is it going to have a huge impact? Not massive, but I do think it will take away from the productivity of a cycle. So, yeah, I'm not a fan. That's my reasoning behind it. I know I know Broadick is and and it's something we respectfully agree to disagree on. Uh I know a lot of coaches run, you know, two 200 even 300 tests. And what do you think about a guy who's real big like let's take James Hollings Head or Kubachell who's sponsored by you guys over at EVEL? There is a point where your muscle mass is so close to your absolute genetic limit or beyond it that you can't support that without some sort of extra support in there. Yeah. Um you know, you can't utilize that amount of protein. You can't you can't support that amount of muscle mass. So, yeah, there is a point when yes, you're going to need a little bit more without a doubt. uh where that point is will be a very individual situation. For me, I had to go north of 350 pounds before I needed more than TRT to maintain myself between cycles. Um but for most people, that bridge period is is 8 weeks, 10 at a push. You know, even even if you are beyond, you're you're probably not going to see any negative impact to your muscle mass and strength for at least 6 weeks. Yeah. And anything that you did lose in 8 weeks, you could get back the second you get back on cycle, right? Yeah. So, I don't think there's a big there's a big argument there in reality, unless you're planning on spending 12, 14, 16 weeks off in an extended period. Yeah. Um, I think blood work is a useful tool. Uh, but I I do think sometimes we overemphasize blood work. Um, and it's like, you know, I'm entering a health phase. I'm doing 200 mega test and 100 mega primo. My blood markers are all good, so I'm fine. And it's like, well, yeah, but there's things you're not seeing on blood work. You know, heart health isn't particularly well described in blood work. um risk factors are, you know, like lipid profiles and stuff like that, blood thickness and all those sort of things, but really you need to be looking at stuff like an echo if you want to be monitoring heart health. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Though bear in mind with calcium that it needs testing pretty much straight away. If it if it's a postal check, your calcium reading will come back artificially high and it will not be correct. your calcium score. If if you go to get a calcium score that they'll do what? If it's posted, meaning there's quite a substantial delay between the sample being taken and the sample being tested, you're likely to get a very inaccurate result. Oh, okay. Okay. Which is why we don't do it in most our tests. We don't offer it for that simple reason. It's just not viable for long-term storage. Okay. It's not a blood test, though. What I'm talking about, though. Ah, what are you talking about? Uh, I'm talking I'm actually due for one. I haven't had one before, but they'll actually give you a calcium score to see like where your heart ranks on. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I thought I thought you meant a calcium blood test. I apologize. No, no, no. Yeah. Calcium score though is a good way to tell what kind of damage you've done. And you know what? I've I've talked to everybody who I know who's gotten a calcium score. Like Ron's wasn't uh as it wasn't like 100%. But it also was really good to the point where he showed his brother who's a doctor and he was like, "This can't be right." He looked at the labs, he was like, "You're you can't be this healthy." You know, but I've talked to guys who have had like a perfect score who had used gear. The guys I've found that seem to have the best calcium scores are the guys who didn't eat a lot of junk. They didn't eat simple sugar. they they relied on more complex carbs, healthy clean foods. It's more the guys that are using more simple sugars um in junk food that I found to have more issues. And I'm sure there's genetic components, too. But just throwing that out there. I am due for one, though. So, I'll keep you guys. It's It's like the woman that smokes 40 cigarettes a day and drinks whiskey every weekend and lives to 110, you I mean, there's always going to be those people that don't fit and and get away with all sorts of crap. Yeah. Um I mean, I never suffered with side effects from anabolics. Not particularly. I never really had any issues at all, which was one reason why, well, that's the thing. Because I didn't get immediate side effects. I felt that they weren't doing any damage. And obviously, that wasn't the case. All right, we'll move on here. um having to do blood work for my TRT doctor. I'm currently doing my uh Oh, I like the way he worded this. I'm currently doing my weekly 210 cipinate with my topups 150 testy, 150 masti, 60 NPP, and 150 primo only for the past 3 weeks. Uh, how long will it take to lower my levels back to TRT? I I like that term, Dave. You know, I'm just taking my TRT with my topups, you know, a little little top off. We got AI got like if I had a little bit of Can you top my bottle off for me, Dave? I got this water here. Just top it off for me. You know, I got room. Um, probably about two two three weeks. It's not high, right? I mean, no. I think I think the biggest issue is not going to be what you're going to see. I mean, after 3 weeks, it might not be such an issue. I don't think the biggest issue is going to be getting like test levels back into range. I think the biggest issue is going to be that the impact they're going to have on things like potentially HDL or blood thickening. So, your doctor's going to look at your bloods and go, "Hang on a minute. Your heo's high, your HDL's low. We need to address your TRT dosing." And it's nothing to do with the TRT dose. It's to do with the topups that have caused those negative impacts. Just top ups. Oh, that might be my topups, Doc. No, he's only been on for 3 weeks, though. So, it I'm sure that his labs won't be too wrecked if he were to, you know, just pull it all now. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. No, I don't think I mean after 3 weeks I don't think there's going to be a serious issue. But if you were running it more longterm, even if you stopped and got your test back into where it should be for your TRT level, it's those other impacts that are harder to hide and then the doc ends up thinking that it's your TRT that's causing them and starts messing around with your TRT dosing. If you wanted to get your levels back down ASAP, obviously stopping the mass, the NPP, and the primo, that's just going to taper out. But with your test, would you go back down to just your TRT dose? He's on 350 per week now. Would you just cycle it back down or would you take any time off? Like skip a shot or two? I' I'd actually take some time off. Yeah. Yeah. If he took off even like 10 days and then restarted, he'll probably be and then maybe go in 3 weeks after that after he restarts. Yeah. I mean, the premon isn't going to show on the blood, so that isn't such a concern apart from its impact on estrogen. Uh, the Deca will show us tests. So, that needs gone. Yeah. What's up, Alexandria? What's up, Robert? What's up, Ty? What's up, UC Suma? What's up, George? Got a lot of people hanging with us. What about this one? What's the difference between testosterone acetate and testosterone proponate? Seems like I get better results from the ACE. slightly quicker. Um, yeah, don't really see it very often, though. Do you get Ace over there? Don't see it over here. So, there was a company that offered it a while back and you had to buy these. They sold everything in these big 60 mil jugs. Everything came in these 60 mil jugs and I bought some and just using one vial a week. Yeah. Just Yeah. Just as my top up, you know? I used that for a good long time. You know what I'm saying? And I had that test ace for a long time and I just used it in place of probe. It is faster, right? You know, you're getting like 1.5 days halflife, but I honestly and and I bet you the Esther weight is probably smaller. You know what I mean? I Yeah, but I mean it's props like 82 something like that. Yeah, I was going to say it's like 82 milligrams of genuine. So I don't think 80 is going to be much more than 85 86. So yeah, I don't think it'll be a huge difference, but yeah. Yeah. I I think it's pretty interchangeable if you're using it and if you like it, dude. There's just You know what, man? Some esters work better for some people. Just sometimes you don't ask. You just keep going with it as long as you can get it. You know, it's like that test the test sip test argument, isn't it? Some people just feel that they they get on better with test sip than they do with test. But in reality, the two drugs have very little difference in the real world. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Jay Gambler's with us. He says, "Uh, question for the next transition from a test DHT cycle to a test EQ. I realize EQ is a slow burn in terms of noticing anything. Uh, but have uh but how long till it's possible E2 suppression takes effect? Trying to figure out when to drop the DHT going into the second week of EQ now. things. It doesn't happen with everybody. So, that's the bit of a pain with this is that EQ isn't going to lower estrogen in everybody. Um um regards its impact on that. What there's there's lots of drugs that seem to have this reputation for being very slow to start working. And the reality is that even with a slowester, it's going to peak in your bloodstream in about 36 hours. So levels are in there relatively quickly. Obviously with a slowester, it builds up over time because you have this lowering effect. In fact, Scott, let me let me send you a quick pick that you can pour up. We got pics. Uh yeah, it's not a great pick, but it just might help in this conversation. Is it of your dog? No, it's not of my dog. Oh, I was hoping for pick I like your dog. You want to see pudding? I like pudding. Yeah. Okay. You I mean, I'll take a pick of like a graph or something, too, if if we if it's good for the show. But I've just sent you something now. Hopefully, it's a PNG, so hopefully you can open it. Okay, let's see what Dave sent us. Um, you know what I can do is I can screen cap it and post it that way. Here we go. What am I looking at here, David? So, if you have a look, what you've got is fast acting at the bottom and slow acting at the top. Okay. And you'll note that there's very very actual little difference between the injection point which is where it's down at the bottom and the initial peak they they happen quite quick. Now that peak on the slow act at the top is 36 hours and the peak at the bottom is somewhere between 12 and 24. Okay. The difference with the slow is that when you continue to inject, you get this steady increase in total plasma levels until you get to a point where it plateaus. So if you have a look on the right, you can see where the steady increase each week you're getting quite a low drop off between injection sites. Yeah. And the long halflife is is adding every week until your plasma to your plateau where with the fast stuff you're getting quite a sharp drop off and then a repeat and the addition of each subsequent test if you look at the top two the the the addition of the subsequent twist isn't creating the same level of increase. I see because it's it's leaving your body it's leaving your body faster. Yeah. So this this thing about oh it takes 3 weeks or four weeks to work isn't technically true. It's working within 24 36 hours of being injected. Sure. And I've noticed EQ uh for instance because EQ was really my thing. I loved EQ. I noticed it early but I didn't notice it at full throttle for a while. You know I you'd feel that it was nice. What I always found I'd do then is layer things in. So I'd start with uh test EQ and that's what then eventually led me to then test EQ N PPP for the first four to 6 weeks and then from there, you know, bring the NPP down and and taper that out while the EQ then felt stronger. And I always found too with my results, I didn't see the same like four weeks in, oh man, I'm on cycle. But then I would just catch a glimpse of myself training at 12 weeks in and all of a sudden I'd be like, oh, oh, okay. I definitely I didn't notice this before, but I definitely I see myself I'm bigger now. And it was always that between that week 8 to week 12, week 14 even with EQ. So I think there is something to that with like you said it does take longer to get to that that peak plasma level right. Mhm. Yeah. And I think that's where a lot lot of it is but it is actually working rapid quite rapidly. I found this back to his question test EQ and uh when will the EQ start to have the possible effects on controlling estrogen. I found it to also be in part the ratio. You know what I mean? Like if you're running at like one one, you're more likely to have an effect. If you're only adding in say like 200 millig of EQ with 500 test, I I'm not as likely to see it smash test or smash estrogen, you know. Well, that Yeah, but that's logical in the sense of if you ran an AI, the more AI you run, the more it's going to suppress the estrogen. So, yeah. Sure. Sure. I just think it's something you got to keep in mind cuz we don't even know what his dosing is for this, you know. But I would suspect that you if you're going to get an anti-estering effect from the EQ, I I would expect to see it within a couple of weeks. Okay. Yeah, I would I would say maybe you'd start seeing it within a within a few weeks and by week five, week six as it's really kind of at its peak level, depending on how much you're taking, what your ratio is. If you're taking 200 test and 600 uh EQ, then you're probably going to see it a lot faster. You know what I mean? Yeah. I I I would expect to see it starting to impact estrogen within a couple of weeks and you won't you won't see the full effect to to somewhere between six and eight because that's not until it's going to be fully peaked and then once it's fully peaked it's going to take a week or two to have a full effect on estrogen. Remember estrogen's always a little bit behind the test levels, always a little bit behind the primary drivers. Good point guys. Let's talk about intraworkout carbs and saving money. So like the past 10-15 years intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance in those long workouts. Here's the thing. It's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branched cyclic dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 g per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched dextrin. We can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code think, get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. All right. Uh, hey guys, love the show as always. My question would be, are there any evidence of steroids potentially growing parts of the brain or the whole brain itself? And does this influence our personality and our thought process? Thanks, guys. I know it's a pretty loaded question. The Oslo stuff show changes in shape and size of the amagladia from anabolic use. Um I don't believe there's anything indicating any overall brain mass changes but there are there is research and evidence showing changes in certain segments uh both in mass and shape and functionality. Um so yes they can affect our personalities that that's a very easy one to answer even without any research. We've we've seen that with anidotal reports of what going back to trend from earlier on what trend does, what Halo does to the way we act. Um, so yeah, there is definitely impacts on on how we act and how our brain functions. But yeah, the the Oslo stuff showed some changes in maggodia and the size of the immag control center. So if that's being malformed, it wouldn't be a stretch to say it's going to have some impact on how we regulate and react emotionally to things, but it might not necessarily make us smarter is what you're saying. Well, so yeah, this this is there there is some research that that shows that parental usage could potentially have an impact on offspring's intelligent in a positive manner. Uh but that that can also be a negative because a more intelligent child requires more stimulus. If they're not stimulated, the behavior can become negative, etc., etc. And there's some argument or some discussion around around children being um more risktakers if they come from parental users. But at the same time, there's also the nature nurture thing that like I said, as I've mentioned earlier, when you look talking about risk within anabolic use, you you got to look at it from a non-using perspective. that anabolic user is already a greater risk taker anyway because the fact that they're using anabolics. Yeah. So, so um there there it's very early stuff with not really a lot of substance to it. Um I do think there is there is some impact in intelligence from a point of view of de developmental if the parents being a user but the research that I've seen so far would suggest that actually cognitive function is going to be reduced in someone who's long-term exposed to high levels of anabolics. Now high levels yeah you know what is high for one is not high for another etc etc so I don't think there's any real defined dosage limit there but trends been shown to increase cellular drift uh particularly in brain cells um so I yeah I do think long-term there are some cognitive down reggulation with long-term exposure to anabolics But we also know that low testosterone levels also affects cognitive function and a a mild increase in testosterone levels can be productive towards cognitive function. So it very much becomes the devil devil is in the details and dosage you know as to whether it's going to be positive or negative. Yeah. Yeah. That makes complete sense. We had somebody ask us about uh SLU dosing for females I think it was. Um, and honestly, I I haven't seen I, you know, I've seen Here's here's what I'll tell you, Dave. I've seen some people running it higher. I I found for myself 400 was a really good dose. 500 is a great dose as well. Um, I I would suggest anybody started at 400, you know, somewhere around there. And you know, we had talked about on another recent show that all the research they're seeing was done done on mice in very high doses. That would be like, you know, milligrams. And uh we we're not anywhere close to that. But, you know, we're seeing good effects with lower doses. I I think for either male or female, starting low is to your benefit. Now, I did speak with a female that did notice increased hair growth while using SLU, so they stopped. So, definitely pay attention to that. And it doesn't necessarily mean that it was through like increased androgenicity, you know what I mean? It may have been just simply like growth hormone will also increase hair growth with collagen production and all of that. So, it's hard to say where that came from, but I did hear one female send that feedback to me on DM uh at at one point. Also, Dave, I got my labs done. Now, I'm bummed cuz I was trying to check. What I really wanted to check was things related to blood sugar, so I was focusing on like fasted insulin and stuff like that. I didn't get uh a lipids test, so I'm going to have to go back. Uh, but I did get my CBC and CMP back and my liver looks good. I had like a little bit of mild elevation. Uh, and I'm sure that's just from training, you know what I mean? It was uh, but other than that, like like we're talking like two points out of range. It was next to nothing like and I expect generally to always be mildly out of range, but the trend is consistent across the board, you know, for ALT and A. So I expect all I expect ALT to be quite significantly out by up to 50% easily from training even double at times. Yeah. Yeah. I I was like two points out. So I call that you know. So that so that means you train like a fan. Yeah. Well I I don't train hard man. I can't train to hard failure but I am I call it Dude I don't even know if I train. I exercise now. You know I Is that what you do when you get retired? Exercise. Yeah. I just exercise and do cardio, man. And uh all my kidney markers were good. Everything looked good. Um you know, eGFR was awesome. Everything else was good in in range even. Like even my BUN was in range, man. So I I'll take it. I'll take it. And yea Mahiba Hemoglobin little bit out, but it came down like three points. So I I I I was much higher. So I'm definitely better than I was. So, I'll take it, man. Um, we had one from Tanya Miller. She asked us, uh, can you briefly explain how and why some compounds will reflect as testosterone on bloods and not others? Some I can, some I can't. Okay. So, I don't know why DECA shows this test. um it's obviously the the compound the um reactive agent that's used or the reagent that's used within the test. So when you do a blood test, you get a sample, it runs through the machine and there's a re there's a reagent for every test you want to do and it reacts with the blood if it's present. So obviously the reagent for measuring testosterone reacts with deca metabolites as well. I I don't know why. I I'm not sure. The reason mast and primo don't show as test is because quite simply they're not. They're DHDs. Um and obviously so as a result I I suspect though I've never actually checked it out. I suspect if you tested DHT you would see changes in DHT levels with the use of mast and primo. uh but you it doesn't show in test because it's not test uh tren in a general estrogen check will will show as estrogen and that's to do with the metabolites being very similar in in the structure and and and again reacting with the reagent. So, uh, it's to do with those reagents and how sensitive they are to detecting what they're there to detect for, which is why when you do a sensitive estrogen test, you use a different reagent, which is more specific to estrogen and therefore doesn't get the false reading from tremble being in the system. So, that I saw that's sort of half an answer and not a real one. I'm sorry, but it's best I can do. And she said, interesting. Tanya said, um, I've had the same dose of NPP reflect as 100 testosterone and then 850 on the same test. Both from LabCore. Um, both the same source, lol. I believe the same vial. Yeah. So, this is an interesting one and there's a few mechanisms at play here. When we take an injection, these are depot injections. So we inject into the muscle then the compound leeches from the muscle into the bloodstream. When we test the blood obviously we're testing what's circulating in the bloodstream. It is possible that a few things can happen. Uh one thing is that your depot doesn't get into the bloodstream particularly well and it can it can pull it under the skin or into the muscle and not fully release. So that would result in a lower reading. Yeah. The other thing that happen is it can get into the bloodstream more directly which would result in a higher reading. Now I did a little experiment and I put literally a pin drop of testosterone into a vial of blood. Okay. And sent it off for testing. What happened? It came back off the scale. Over 520 and more. Wow. which is like well that's like 40,000 NGDL or something ridiculous. That's like Delis Macccarver levels, you know. So the what you've got to think is if if by any chance you've got it directly into the bloodstream, it's going to significantly impact the reading on bloods. Yeah. Even a tiny amount is going to have a huge impact. So that's one thing. The other thing that can occur is that if you use the same injection site, you can actually release previous compound that sat deeper in the muscle because you're going back through it with a needle again. Huh. So, you can get this where it doesn't fully release or it released too quickly or you actually end up with two injections or one and a bit from the previous one getting through at the same time. So there's a there's a few weird things that can go on, but we we quite regularly see abnormally high blood readings two or three days after injection and then when retest because obviously if we get something like that, we retest it. We we'll ask for a new sample and retest. You know, if you know someone's on 200 mega test and the test comes back at 250 m, we know something's not right. So we'll do another sample and retest. And you notice that when you retest two, three days later, it's back to where you'd expect it to be. Yeah. All right. How about this one? And I'll have some feedback on this. He says, "Question for the next show. Earlier in my recovery, I relapsed twice uh two separate times and I was running EQ both times. I looked on the forums and I actually saw others have the same issue. I correlated it to crashing my estrogen. Can you guys give me your opinions on how crashing certain hormones like estrogen could lead a recovering addict to relapse? Unfortunately, no. Uh I mean, it's going to have an impact on on your brain and your cognitive levels and and how you function and how you think, but why it would be specifically around the reload, I honestly don't know. Uh I I don't find it dis unbelievable that you know that there could be something going on there but I don't know what the cause would be. Yeah, I would think there is more. I don't think that that that kind of thing operates in a vacuum. Um usually cuz Okay, so and this kind of relates to to to bodybuilding and dieting. I have a client who is uh he hired me to do um a a transformation contest. So he's getting into incredible shape. Oh my god, too. He's like lean lean. Not a big guy. He's like a buck 50, buck 60, you know, but he's he's like contest lean. He doesn't want to compete right now, though. He just wanted to do this, get in the best shape, and then turn it into a rebound and grow. So, good for him. Um, he's been 100% on the diet all the way along. In fact, when we started, he was like next to protein. He was protein only and a ton of cardio. Like, he was motivated on his own. I didn't have to push him. And now we're eating more food. He went off the rails the other night where he's getting pretty lean and he's been doing perfect but all of a sudden he went off the rails. And what I talked to him about was so I that's kind of like a relapse. It's the same kind of concept where you don't plan to go out and do it but all of a sudden you're doing that thing that you didn't want to do and it's going to have negative repercussions on your life. In his case, you know, his diet in case of, you know, drugs and alcohol could be a lot worse. So the relapse starts long before the actual action of relapsing. So there were and we start compartmentalizing things. I'll talk about the diet, you know, like yeah, you know, I'm it just you shut it off. You shut it off. I don't have, you know, any noise in my head about and then I get these this noise and I'm thinking about all this food and I just shut it off and I compartmentalize it and push it away instead of accepting the fact that yes, I am hungry. Yes, this does suck, but this is what I want. Working through that instead, you just box it off and then all of a sudden when you when you crave it really bad and maybe you're under additional stress, then you go off the rails, you know, and the same thing's true with, you know, drugs and alcohol. So, there's a lot of signs that usually lead up to it. It It's never been something where you're 100% on the track and then all of a sudden you fell off. And heck, for some people, using gear might not be an option in recovery. I didn't use gear for quite a long time. It was like a couple years in and I had been a previous user of gear too. I but I didn't want to push even bodybuilding. I didn't want I didn't want to take it any further than I until I had my recovery stronger. So yeah, I I guess that would be my main thought. You know, maybe sure messing up your hormones, could that have played a role? Absolutely. Was it maybe the final straw? That's possible, but there were a lot of other things that would have led up to that, too, you know. So, that'd be my my thought mainly. Okay. All right. See what else we have here we can knock out real quick. Um, okay. We had Let's see. Um, am I the only Oh, it's a positive comment. Am I the only person noticing how much more energetic and enthusiastic Scott is lately? This is so awesome. He seems so uh much more happy. Is it a combination of Scott achieving his diet and lifting goals uh SLU PP332 and the awesome man himself? I thought that was very sweet and I want to say thank you because I do have better energy and I feel good. Um okay guys, uh just a cut question here. uh did a cut on my second cycle, dropping from 257 to 231 January to March. The weight is still coming off at the end of the cycle, but I'm worried I'm going to lose muscle. Uh should I pause the cut and try to maintain or keep uh cutting off cycle? It all depends on where you are body fat wise. If you've still got a reasonable amount of body fat, there's less risk to muscle. But if you're getting leaner then, as in significantly leaner, then the risk to muscle becomes slightly greater. Um, the leaner you are, the more you diet at that point, the more risk there is to muscle. The fatter you are, the safer the muscle is. See, this is why I'm the size I am because I'm saving my muscle. It's a good idea, Dave. Save that muscle. Yes, I agree. It's a tough place to be, it sounds like. So, if it's his first cycle, no, second cycle, he's probably not doing TRT between that cycle, right? I'm guessing, you know, well, he says he's off and he says he he's going to risk muscle if he does he risk muscle, but without knowing where he is body fat percentage wise, it's difficult to say. I mean, I I wouldn't diet as as a if I'm dieting, if I'm using gear to grow muscle and now I'm using gear to diet, I would not diet as aggressively when I came off. I would probably pull the food back up just a little bit, a little bit closer to maintenance, but still in a deficit. Um, not pushing quite as hard until I recovered my natural test levels. and or if I had a client doing this, this is the way I'd probably do it. And then I would ease back in. Just keep it slow. Um, you know, we know that in a 500 calorie deficit, research showed us that you can still gain muscle as a natural person. So, the key is it's just getting your test back as soon as possible and then, you know, pushing a little bit further. I know we're running out of time here. No, we can't hear that at all. Dave, got you. Oh, okay. Sorry, we had beer hair on it and I was just trying to clean some of it off. All right, listen. Do you have any Uncle Dave's wisdom? What did you spend the week um meditating over for us? I know you've got a sermon prepared for us. You've been thinking about this long and hard. Um and you're you're ready to bestow your wisdom upon us. Dave, you do you do this deliberately, don't you? You you build it right up cuz you know I haven't got [\h__\h] all cuz I've been very unprepared just recently. Bespoke. Do you know the word bespoke? Have you noticed people use that a lot lately? Do they? Bespoke. Dave's bestow wisdom. Bestow. We're doing well with the words today. We got he bestow. Did I say bestow? Yeah. I like bestowed. Yeah. This is as good as trying to pronounce chemical words. It's it's just it's not working here. Daveis spoke artisal wisdom. My my wisdom is don't attempt to say words that you can't say. Hemoglobin. Hemoglobin. I love that. I'm going to use that so much now. It's going to be I'm not going to be able to stop myself. We'll be discussing it with people going, "Yeah, your hemoglobin is I mean your hemoglobin. It's just going to [\h__\h] in me head. It's like that annoying song you can't get rid of." I mean, it could almost be like another blood marker that we don't know about yet. Well, we discovered that there's a new blood marker, hemoglobin. It's much like hemoglobin, but with a B. It's spelled differently. Yeah. Um, so there's wisdom. I don't know if this is wisdom or not. I suppose it is really. Um, there may be people in your life who are repeat offenders. Um, and I you what I mean by that term is people that will do something to wrong you or against you or not that you would expect a friend to do so negative towards you in some way or another. Uh, and then they're full of apologies. They're they're full of um they sort of happiness their way out of it. So I'm trying to put this in a way that's a good example. So So someone who's a friend of yours mistreats you in some way. Um they become aware that you realize they've mistreated you because you say something to that was out of order. You shouldn't have done that. and and then they just uberize to to sort of talk you round and then they'll be fine for a period of time and then it happens again. It is to me a situation where if someone is repeatedly wronging you, irrespective of how guilty they act afterwards or how full of remorse they are, ultimately they don't have your best interest at heart and you need rid. Yeah, that might be painful because of how and this is this happens a lot in relationships. That might be painful because of how nice they are when they are good. But I personally don't feel that that the the [\h__\h] is outweighed by the good. I you know, you're either a good person or or you're not. And and I find the good hard to be believed being genuine if someone keeps [\h__\h] on me. And so, you know, you've just though it can be very hard particularly because they will act the victim when you do sort of terminate any relationship you have with them, be it a friend or a partner or whatever it is. Um, sometimes you've just got to do it. Um, and it can be hard and it can be difficult and these type of people generally try and guilt trip you when you do stand up to them. Yeah. But you you've just got to stay positive to it and and and trust your instincts. And I think we are very bad for doubting ourselves particularly with a strong personality against us. So when someone's got quite a powerful personality or they speak to you with a great deal of conviction, you can get to the point where you start questioning your own opinion because it's like am I am I right here? Am I you know and it's like no stick to it. You you made that decision in in good mind in a time when you were calm and measured. Yeah. Uh yeah, I suppose that's an element to it, you know, but uh I think it's it's quite amazing how much abuse we actually put up with because we don't want to go through that uncomfortable process of getting rid of that abuse. Yeah. Yeah, I could see that. It's a crappy place to be in, you know, but yeah, I could see that. So some sobering words of wisdom. That was some good bespoke artisal wisdom. The other thing is you you don't you don't have to make a song and dance about removing this person. You don't have to Yeah. I I don't like confrontation despite how it might come across because I can be quite direct and quite abrupt. Um I don't actually like genuine confrontation. I I'm fine with being honest and open with people and and being direct, but I I don't actually like confrontation. I find it very uncomfortable. I've never been particularly comfortable with confrontation, but I tend to when I get in a situation where I feel that somebody's taking advantage. I I will just move away. I I don't confr I don't make a confrontation about I just step back. I just literally step back from him as a person, you know, and yeah, and my contact with them will just become more minimal and more minimal until eventually there is none. I'll throw something in to add to this. You know, sometimes you can't step back because say they're a family member or somebody that you have to work with and that you can't I Well, yeah. Now, with family members, I with that. I was going to say this though that if you if you love that person still though and you want to keep them in their li in your life, it's on you then to then accept who they are and where they're at and how they're going to behave and then you can make that decision. I what I'm saying is I don't think you necessarily if you don't want to cut the person out of your life. You don't have to. But it is on you then to not put expectations on them of of behaving in a way they haven't behaved before. You know what I mean? Like they're going to be who they're going to be. And if you say still love that person, say it's your, you know, your dad and you want to keep them in your life, then you, you know, it's like then you have to at least be aware of that. And that allows you to then put them at the emotional distance you need to still be able to interact. You know what I'm saying? Now, to me, you see, I think that a lot of that is social programming because we're socially programmed that we we should accept our family irrespective of what they do to us. We should always be there for our family. Now, I have no relationship with one of my brothers. Yeah. I don't dislike him. I don't I haven't fallen out with him. just if we have a relationship, it it's too costly. It's just too much like bloody hard work. So, I love him. I care for him. If he needed me, I'd be there tomorrow. But other than that, I don't speak to him. I have nothing to do with him. And as a result, both our lives are better for it. Yeah. Yeah. And that's fine. That's fine. You know, but I'm I'm throwing that out there, though, too. If you want to keep that person in your life, you know, it doesn't always have to be that way. And that's something I had learned and and it can apply to, like I said, maybe it's your co-orker or your boss, you know, somebody somebody who you have to interact with. Man, when I worked for Seven Up, I had to interact with a lot of people I didn't like because the the guy who's called the receiver in the back room of the grocery store, he's the guy who like anything that comes in the stores through him. And that guy a lot of times there were some great receivers but there were some guys who never did anything else with their lives and this was their power trip and oh my god every Wednesday I know I got to deal with whoever and George you know I'm going to see I'm just using that not we've got a George in our stream not you George I got to go deal with George today and it's like you know what you can keep those people in your life but you have to not have expectations of them behaving differently than they behave you Yeah. And and as uh Jussi Sub just said a lot of and I think that's another thing we are you also have to be very self-guarding in that you don't make assumptions about somebody and what their behavioral capability is. Yeah. You do have to communicate with people. You know you you you can't judge someone on your standards. Yeah. Uh, and I've touched on the reason I didn't go down this route was because I've already done this one before, but you you you you will never be disappointed if you expect people to be who they are. The trick is learning who they are. Yeah. Yeah. I like that. Um, and we're only disappointed when we start to apply our own standards and our own expectations of behavior towards oursel onto other people. And you can't do that. Yeah, you you you take someone for who they are uh and and you you have to accept them for who they are. And if you can't do that, then don't have a relationship with that person or have a limited relationship with that person cuz they are always going to disappoint you if you hold them to a standard that they're not capable of achieving. You know what? I made that mistake in a relationship once with a girl who uh had a lot of her own issues, but she wanted to get past them and she wanted to be the So I fell in love with the person that she wanted to be, not the person she was. Exactly. You know, and that's where I had issues then because then she didn't meet my expectations, which were I felt entitled to put those expectations on her cuz that's who she wanted to be. But guess what? there's a chance that in her life she might not have ever become that person, you know. I have some friends that are absolute [\h__\h] And then you have real good ones too, Dave. Real nice friends from America. Yeah. Then also then there's also that [\h__\h] Scott. Um they are that they they are absolute [\h__\h] but they have elements to their personalities that are very positive. Yeah. And I accept them as being [\h__\h] So I never put myself in a position where I become a victim of their assholelessness. Yeah. Because I know what they're going to be like. You know, it's like there's that mate you never lend money to because you know you're never getting it back. Yeah. Yeah. And he knows he's like that. So when he comes and says, "Lend me a tener," it's like, "No, [\h__\h] off cuz I'm not getting it back." He isn't overly offended because he knows he's not giving it your back. He knows the truth deep down. So, you know, you don't put yourself in a position where that person's negative behavior becomes an issue for you and you can still have a friendship with them because you just you take from that friendship what you know they're capable of giving and vice versa. Yeah. Uh and and I I think we we often screw up because we expect more from somebody than what they're capable of. Uh but also we screw up because we often overd deliver to somebody in a friendship when we don't when we're not willing to give that much. Yeah. So example of this is you do a favor for a mate. You don't really want to do it, but you do it because you feel you're obliged to do it. Then you resent them for the fact that you've done that favor to them, right? And they haven't they haven't responded in the way you think they should. Yeah. But to them, they're just asking for a favor. You said yes. So for them, that's the end of it. You know, you said yes. That's great. Thank you very much. If you said no, they probably would have been, "Yeah, all right. Not a problem, mate. I'll I'll ask somebody else." You know, but you make such a big deal of it in your head that when they don't bow down and worship you because you've done them a favor, you feel offended. Well, that's your issue, mate, not theirs. Hey, one more question. How's your new blood bus? being built. Well, no, it's not actually being built. So, it goes to be built in about a week, two weeks time. Okay. Okay. Um and then when that one comes back, we're going to do some old jobs on the other one. I It's 5 years old now. It's got a few dents in it and bits and so we're going to fix it up. And then I'm going to be looking for somebody in Birmingham to run it. Okay. Somebody mentioned on the last episode cuz I was like, you know what? you can drive anywhere in the UK. You know, England is so small. And they said, "Yeah, but our gas prices are a lot higher than the US." And I was like, "Oh, there's a really good point." Yeah. Yeah. That is a point. Yeah. Yeah. All right, guys. We appreciate you tuning in. Dave, you have any pillars of uh strength or uh antibi peed education stuff coming up? I'm looking at starting a course early April. So, anyone's interested, get in touch. It's not fixed, but it'll be sometime in the first week or two of April. All right. Uh, so I'm just about to start advertising for that. Uh, all right. Let's mention it on the at the beginning of the next episode so that everybody hears it in case anybody tuned out by now. Well, actually, we went down to nine and suddenly we're back up to 20. Yeah, it was uh your what was it? Bespoke artisal wisdom, Dave. I don't I think it was your award-winning personality. Could have been. Could have been. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to evalbutanalysis.com. get your lab work done by Dave. Mess with him. Put like a drop of uh NPP in the vial when he's not looking. See what your test levels come back at. Uh also go to Stum Sports Nutrition if you're in the UK and check out the I think it's the Strong Performance Center we talked about last week. That'll be coming to you soon. And of course, true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Get your creatin, get your protein powder. You need the protein powder. Protein powder is way cheaper than egg whites right now. So you can cut the egg whites out, replace that with protein powder, and go to supplements.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. You guys are freaking awesome. Dave Crosslin for another ep episode of Drugs and Stuff. I'll see you soon.