Let's talk about the evolution of old school cycles. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McN. And all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK and you need to get your lab work done, then you can get your labs done by Dave. Go to evaloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. And Stum Sportsnutrition. You can get them both in the UK and the US now. So definitely check them out. Uh great health stacks, especially for guys on cycle. We are brought to you by true nutrition.com. Get all your protein powder, your creatin, your intraworkout, and all your other basic bodybuilding needs. Use our code think over there to get 10% off and support our programming. Thank you to supplements.ca. CA for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Dave, round two. Dave in France. How's it going, man? How's the RV life? >> Hot. >> Why don't you have the AC on 24 hours a day like a good American would? >> It is on, but it's still hot. >> Then your AC sucks. You got to crank it, Dave. You got to crank it until it's so co cold in there that you need to put on a hoodie and shoes. >> Well, it was like that last night, but The the problem is at the moment we don't have any front blinds cuz we had some new ones fitted and they were [\h__\h] so we took them down. So unfortunately we've got a greenhouse effect at the front. Oh man. Uh by the way guys we have a fun topic. We're going to talk about the old school cycles that people used to run. Uh plus of course we're going to tackle all your listener questions. Now hey for everybody at home understand that this program is for educational purposes only. We don't condone the use of any compounds that we discuss here. First and foremost, Dave is an educator. He's educated the UK police, the military. He works in the court systems in the UK. Our goal here is to create a a program of harm reduction, Dave, so that people can people are going to do this stuff, but we want people to be able to stay as safe as possible. And uh nobody under 18 should be, you know, partaking in any of this. Go to your doctor if you need any medications. All of that. We are not responsible for blah blah blah blah blah. All that Dave, all of that. Now that I got that out of the way, yeah. >> Hi, YouTube. >> No, seriously, man. Uh here's the deal. We had a listener who uh commented and he was like, "Man, is there any efficacy to this cycle?" This old-timer from 30, 40 years ago was saying that, you know, he would run like what was it? A mill of deca a per week with like, you know, a little bit of dbol. He do that for eight weeks and then after that he'd drop all of that and then he run like four weeks of uh um uh what was it? Uh excuse me, Winstrol. And that was the entire cycle, you know. And I've heard all sorts of stuff. um my dad's friends back in the day, it was like one mil or 200 mil, excuse me, 200 milligrams of DECA every two weeks was a cycle, you know, like that was the entire cycle. >> I mean, that's one of the reasons why these old guys are still going is because they they you know, they've never gone above 500 milligrams a week in their life. It is whether you want to admit it or not. The reality is that you know guys that have maintained I mean I know a guy 70 odd now Dave excellent physique cycled for 40 odd years. >> Okay. >> But you know he's always been four 500 milligrams. >> Let's talk about the evolution of old school. Um, I mean I can't talk about the very early days because that's even beyond my time and I know I'm an old fart but there's been all sort I mean ones people will remember will be the old you know it has to be 2 to1 ratio test to deca I mean I think there's some people still sign up to that now >> so that would have been later that would have been like as I was getting into it you know >> that would have been like early 2000s that was a popular idea >> another one because you don't stay on the same compound for more than four to six weeks. So, you kept continually changing the compounds. >> Oh, you have to like uh trick the receptors or something. >> Yeah. Well, that was Yeah. I mean, the the theory behind it, obviously not quite correct, was that different receptors for different compounds. >> So, you didn't burn a receptor out or it wasn't too tired. Um there's no weight in that. We know it's one androgen receptor, but there was something to the fact that if you varied the compound, you varied the stresses. >> Yeah. >> So, you were you were changing the negative stresses that the body was having to deal with, which over the course of a cycle could to some degree be beneficial. >> Um, mentally there was there was obviously, oh, it's a new drug, it's a new compound. So, that always freshened people up when they change compounds. Kickstart kickstarting lasted for a very long time like oral kickstarts or even high dose kick starts where people would drop you know like a gram >> a gram and a half in the first week even though they're only the actual cycle dose was only going to be five or 600 mil >> so I did I did both of those things that's that was happening when I started Dave that was dbol kickstart for the first four to six weeks is what people would do 2530 milligrams of dbol with their 500 test sip cycle or you would double the amount of test. You know, you're using a thousand for the first two weeks. I think I've come to a conclusion, Dave. So, back then cycles were cut off at that 10 week point. Some really 8 to 12. It was 8 weeks was a, you know, shorter length. 12 weeks was pushing it. And then you came off, you did a PCT, you recovered your natural test. So, I think that people wanted to get their levels up as quickly as they could. Versus nowadays, it's like, well, you're already on TRT. There's no rush, so let the let the compound build. You know, I >> I think probably the biggest change is PCT. I think that's probably the biggest single change is that, you know, a vast majority of people PCTs. And you did two cycles a year and that was it. And that was the limit of it because that's all you could get in with a PCT as well and time off. all you could actually get in was two cycles a year. There was the shake cycles which we discussed a little bit last week and I mean they I think I don't know if he was the first person to push him but Paul Borrison was very influential in doing short really high do cycles with absolutely tons of gear but also a lot of changing compounds as well and he would do that like we we said last week you know three weeks of a millust every day and then you drop another compound in and then something else in and then you were off and the total duration was six weeks. >> Okay. Um he he was very influential in bringing insulin into the the marketplace though it didn't really gain a huge amount of popularity with him. It seemed to to sort of start then disappear then come back years later. But he was probably the the first guy that really pushed the use of growth hormone and insulin together in a cycle format >> around there. Because I think here's another factor be like now everything's kind of homogenized like the guys it used to be like oh what are the guys in the Middle East doing? They look so dry you know what are the guys in England doing versus the US but now we're all online and we were all sharing all these ideas like everybody's doing from what I see more or less very similar cycles everywhere around the world but back then you were kind of relegated to who you were learning from in your area. You know, >> I mean, a big difference between the States and the UK was the UK used to stop all injectables couple of weeks out and running in on orals. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Whereas the states used to come in on injectables. And there was always this this thing that the US look was fuller. >> Yeah. >> But not as grainy. And the UK look was grainier and sort of bit dirtier in that sense. A bit roarer. >> But that was because have the fullness because we weren't on the injectables. We were running on on just win. So, we were great. We were dry, you know. Um, >> but we didn't have that big full belly pop. Um, >> yeah. I mean, there there's definitely been and to this to this day, I think there's still some things Germany, if if if I'm right with this, and I'm sure we've got some viewers from Germany who will confirm this, that they work on the terminal halfife, which is a lot shorter than the regular halfife that a lot of us work on. Um, so you know they're working on test being a half-life of 4.5 days. >> Um, >> I don't know about that. I I'd have to ask like Roman Fritz if because I guys I've talked to in Germany they're learning from like everybody the same place everybody. >> Yeah. I think I think like that. Exactly. And and with the with the internet >> and particularly with this like us and I'm not just saying us because there's loads that do it now, but this openness discussion around what goes on. People have been exposed to lots of different approaches and as always does with these things, it you you will get these trends and fads that pop up for a while and everyone goes mad on it, but then it settles down to what people see repeatedly working. >> Right. Right. you know, and and so there are things that come in that are new that do stay the course and do get embedded into cycle protocols, but there always be the fatty things that come in and last 6 months to 12 months and then people give up on them. I mean, DMP was massive for so long and then it sort of died to death and no one really bothers with it that much now. It's not something you hear a lot of. it got so popular again um back in and and part of it I think was uh somebody there was a guy who was promoting it and selling it. So, >> you know, and and because of that, he was doing a lot of content on it, and it it it became new again because there was a whole generation of guys in the girls in the gym that hadn't had any experience with it. Versus the older people were like, "Yeah, we've been there, done that." But it was it was like, "Oh, this is new. This is different. We hadn't heard about this, so it was exciting." I see things like that happen all the time, you know? >> Yeah. I mean, you go back to the days of Robbie Robinson. Robbie Robinson was well known for doing Decker Only Cycles. Okay, >> you know, this is 70s. And then that came back into FA for a while. And there were a couple of people that were big on promoting that, but it was sort of bastardized and twisted a little bit because a lot of people can't cope with it. >> So there was there was yeah, it's Decar only but with some debol. So there was some testosterone being introduced into it. But but um you know, that was something that that Robbie swore by did a lot of. I don't think it was widespread popular, but then people look back at physiques from the past and like, you know, how did he look like that? And then they start cuz now they talk about their cycles what he didn't do back then because it >> true. >> Uh, and it's, oh, well, I used to do Decar only. Oh, that must be the secret. And it's like, no, probably his genetics and his training, but no, you know. >> Yeah. I I would say that we, you know, we're in a pretty good place now. things. I'll tell you what, after the after the frontloading phase kind of wore off, I saw the phase where everybody started pushing really high doses. It became like the, you know, Boston Lloyd came out and he was talking about doing these massive cycles. And at the time, people were looking at him and they're like, "Oh, well, he survived and he, you know, was big. I could do that, too." And I I would say that there were a number of people that were like, "Yeah, three grams is totally normal." and it was just average guys were running these really crazy cycles. We did start we've seen backlash to that I think now and now it seems like it's the opposite man. We have guys who are like, "How little can I take?" You know, that seems to be the new trend is more average guys that are, you know, more recreational lifters, less competitors, and and they're saying, "Well, what's the le the the the less the least that I can use to get a good result?" You know, can I can I ask you a question? >> Of course. >> Serious one. >> Yeah. About Boston. >> Okay. Do you think he genuinely did the 10 gram cycles he claims? >> Man, that's a great question, isn't it? I mean, it it sure >> was very having known what four and a half and five felt like >> and having known what I could achieve on four and a half and five, I always struggled to understand one how he could cope with 10 grand. >> Yeah, >> I felt like dog [\h__\h] most of the time to be fair. and and to why just that sheer level of anabolics didn't give him more. I mean, he did grow. I'm not saying he didn't grow, but he was never what we'd call as a mass monster. I mean, he was never knocking on the doors of being a scary freak creek. Um, so did he really do it? And we know he ran substantial, but did he really do that? >> I'll say this. So, I forget his coach's name when he was very young. Um, it's right on the tip of my tongue. I know one of our listeners will comment with it. So, I want to say thank you to whoever it is or who how many ever of you can remember his name. >> It's an age thing with Scott. You've just got to bear with him. It's because he's so old now. >> Um, but uh I he from what I understood that coach had always been a big proponent of super high doses. He would take on young bodybuilders that had good potential and he would gas them up hard with a lot of gear, a lot of orals, you know, and it was a combination of all that that I think that that's what he was brought up in, you know. So, I I I mean, was it 10 grams? I don't know. It sure did like, you know, it sure did get him on a lot of podcasts and get people listening to him because it was so extreme at that time. Um, but I am sure that he he gassed it harder than most. I'll say that, you know. Yeah, I I don't think there's any doubt he ran high doses. I was just curious as to whether you actually thought it was quite that high. >> That's a good question, man. I guess we'll never know. >> The impression it was fives and six maybe, but maybe not quite into the double digits like like he said, but it was his market employee. I mean, he had a few ways of creating interest. >> Tea, but end of the day, it was his thing. He did it how he wanted to do it at the end of the day and and that's down to him. But uh yeah, he had a few ways of marketing himself and I just I I often wondered that maybe that that was more marketing than reality, but you never know. I mean, people do do crazy [\h__\h] >> Yeah. Yeah. Love him or or hate him. Rest in peace to Boston Lloyd and rest in peace to all the other crazy bodybuilders out there that we've had through the years who have really pushed things because you know it it's definitely there's a certain mentality that I think shows up in our sport where people just want to take it to that extreme >> extreme sport and it at its core it is extreme nothing exceeds like excess when it comes to bodybuilding. Well, leading us up. >> Yeah. Leading us to present day though, I feel like we are in a better place, you know. Um I do believe some of the the bigname pros that I've talked to that have claimed to use lower doses and and I you know, I've seen moderate doses lower than that. Like we don't have to push it, you know, um to that absolute extreme, especially if a guy has good genetics, they were cut out for the sport, you know. So that's a whole other conversation, though. Hey, anything else we should mention here, Dave, in the uh old school roundup. >> Yeah. >> Um, >> we're skipping over the whole like SARM epidemic because that's okay. The pro hormone ep epidemic and the peptide ep epidemic. >> The only good thing about the s thing was the psalms that weren't psalms like super troll. >> Yeah. Yeah, there was that. And hey, I'm I'm willing to give another try to YKK11 um especially the injectable version. I just talked to um a pro that we've had on the podcast um in the last several months who was telling me he ran it for the first time and he had a good experience. Got very strong off of it. Didn't get a negative appetite effect from it. I don't believe that you're gonna get any kind of like myostatin benefits from it, but it basically is from what I understand based off of a steroid backbone. So, you know, there's some legitimacy to it, you know. >> Yeah, it's also for courses, isn't it? They all have their places. And I think the S moon created that area for people that were too cautious or wary >> to go fully anabolic. And the peptides gave people that were even more wary an option to to to get into performance-enhancing drugs without actually really getting into drugs as such. >> True. >> Um and I mean some of the peptides stood the time, you know. I mean some of the the growth hormone secrets are viable. They're not super imp. And the only reason I think they've been out of the market is because the cost of growth hormones got so reasonable. >> I think if growth hormone was still as expensive as it used to be, they would still be quite popular. But I think it's it's a pricing. It's a financial factor on that one. Really? >> Yeah. Well, hey, listen guys, if you have any thoughts, I'm sure that all you at home have your old school cycles that you used to run or new people that ran. Um, you know, comment below. We'd love to hear and comment with your questions. Dave, we have so many questions for this episode. Unfortunately, we're not going to be able to get to all of them. There were like I have, I think, like 40 questions lined up. Um, that means that if we did 30 seconds between each question each, that it would only take us 40 minutes to get through the show. And we know that that's not going to happen. Yeah. >> All right. So, like I said, guys, leave us questions for the next one. And if we don't get to your question, comment it again. No offense to you. Like, it's not personal. And if you're new here, we'd love to have you along for all of our shows, guys. We have several different bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week. We've got this, you know, gear focused one. We've got the coaching Q&A. We've got Ron and Dusty. We just have an interview with uh Jordan Hutchinson. That's uh the day we record this, it's coming out. So, you guys already seen it by the time this is released. Um it's time for an update on the Super Draw breakdown. People loved the Anadraw breakdown we did. I feel like we did Super Draw not too long ago, but I don't know. Does everybody else want us to do Super Draw again? Like, I feel like it wasn't that long ago, was it Dave? I think it was I those it all blar into one. >> Yeah. Yeah. I thought it was around the Olympia. So that's like last October. It's, you know, going on a year, I guess. I don't know. I don't know if I've learned anything new about Super Draw since then. Have you? Yeah. Okay. Got to ask guys. Um Oh, that was the old school dude. Yeah. He had uh Yeah, he was doing very low gear back then. the Deca dbol cycle switching to Winstrol. Um, oh, and then somebody mentioned Paul Borrison, too, promoting chemical warfare. >> If you haven't heard of Paul, >> yeah, >> he's part of steroid law that I feel is a worthwhile journey to just explore. >> This is completely [\h__\h] bonkers. by him. >> Mad genius. Um, no doubt a clever man, ahead of his time in lots of ways. Unfortunately, a victim of his own success to a degree. Uh, and hely lost his grip on reality, I would say, towards the end. Um, and there is things about Paul at the back end of his his life that were not great, but but he's he he he definitely took the talk and walked the walk and and and pushed the boundaries of what we thought was viable within anabolics. Definitely. >> Okay, so here's a bunch of them. Um, hey guys. Uh you say the problem with injectable winstril is because it's suspended in water and the problem with sterility which I completely understand. However, what about everything else that's water-based such as growth hormone, LC carnitine, glutathione, peptides, etc. And why do these not have as high a risk of infection? Um yeah, so that's there I could. So Dave, we have like the injectable lcarnitine. I from what I understand is not waterbased. They're using a solvent for that. Um >> with peptides you're mixing that as you go with bacteriaatic water and it's >> alcohol based water. So just so people understand the difference between like a sodium solution that you'd have in like an IV and back water. that walker has added alcohol so it stays sterile within meltable um needles going into it for one of I can't think of a proper terminology. Uh whereas an IV solution does run the risk of contracting a bacteria if it's multiple use which is why you should be looking at bioatic if you're going to be using a water-based dissolve compound for multiple injections. If it's a single application it's not so much of an issue. Yeah. Yeah. And and also too, like if you're using growth, uh it's it's a lot smaller of an amount. You know, you might a growth hormone may be like a a tenth or a a quarter of a mill of water and it might be going subq versus jamming in uh 1 cc, you know, into deep deep deep into a muscle. And not to mention too, um those suspensions are are you very painful. You know, there's a lot of irritation, the microscopic little crystals that are rubbing around in your muscle. And that pain alone can cause your body to wall it off and creating an infection. In fact, you can easily get an infection from like super highdosed gear. Somebody had asked us like, "What do you guys think about a 600 mgram per mill compound?" Number one, yeah, you've either got a lot of pain with that or you're using super solvents that are going to cause a lot of inflammation, you know. >> Yeah. I know I' I'd be I'm wary of anything over 300 if I'm honest. Um >> anything over that you are using super solvents to to maintain that you know >> or it's underdosed which is >> there's that. Yeah, we had a question about over underdosed gear. Okay, so this is an older guy says uh hey Scott and Dave I'm about 60 years old in se I'm about to be 60 on September 3rd. My birthday is September. >> Are you sending your own questions in now? Oh, my birthday's September 6th. It's coming up. >> Um, >> I've been doing TRT for about uh two plus years now. I'm in decent shape most of my life and hard labor uh lol construction work. I'm not trying to do any shows or anything, but I'd like to try to get into my best shape uh that I can in the for the next 10, 20, 30 years of my life. He's going to be ripped at 90 apparently. Um, now with TRT therapy, I've noticed after 2 years uh of use, exceptional changes in joint pain, back pain, and just all around wanting to do stuff. Uh, when I work out, I'm trying to get a solid routine. Um, it's mostly lighter weights and higher reps. Is there anything you'd recommend uh for guys in my age group? Uh, greatly appreciate it. I watch all the ThinkPick episodes on YouTube. Thanks. I think you can train heavy. I think you've just got to be sensible about the volume of heavy work you do and maybe stick to say one exercise heavy or one big compound heavy in a certain body part just so you're not doing, you know, set after set after set of heavy. Form becomes a big factor with age. uh quality of rep, quality of control, making sure there's no bouncing, making sure there's no momentum because you just your body just can't take those jolts anymore. >> Yeah, >> I like TUT for for the guys that are older uh as a mix in there. Not not solely, but I think adding in a bit of TUT really helps get the muscle warm and allows you to stress the muscle in a way without overly stressing the joint. >> What's TU T? >> Time under tension. And I like a 5sec 5second down tempo. >> I thought it was like test on decano8 therapy >> trend. >> Yeah. >> Test under silent eight trend. That's what you thought, wasn't it? Or or Yeah. >> No. >> Tutt test underate therapy. >> Prime under tension. >> Yeah. Super slow reps allow you to maximize the stimulus at a smaller weight. But what they also do is allow you to focus load on the muscle and away from the joint. And you can do that. It takes a little bit of thought, takes a little bit of practice, but naturally when we do a lift, we we have three elements that really involved in the list. We have our sceal frame, we'll have our tendon attachment and ligament and we have our muscle. With practice and correct form application, you can really minimize the amount of skeletal frame and and ligament engagement you're getting and really focus much more load on the muscle. One, then you can use less total load because a higher percentage of the load you're using is hitting the muscle. And just for a spitball argument, let's say you're bench pressing 200 kilo, but you're only getting 60% of that load hitting the muscle. If you can bench press 170 kilo but get 85 90% of that to hit the muscle, then you're getting more muscle stimulus but less joint wear and tear because you're using a lower maximum weight. >> Yeah. >> So, you know, that can come in, but it does take practice. It does take a bit of time. But I think the biggest thing is your approach to training and and being not reserved but being economical about what you do in the way you load your skeletal frame or the way you load your joints because they're only going to take so much grief. And you know when we're 22, we could go in and throw weights around. We could bounce 200 plus kilo off his chest and oh that's a bit sore next day and a day after be normal. You do it now and it's two weeks of God this bloody hurts. Yeah, >> you know, and it's just aid, unfortunately. So, it's just about being sensible, but it doesn't stop you training heavy, but I would say it stops you in how you apply that heavy training. >> I'll just throw a couple things in because I like everything you're saying here that so if he's about, you know, 60, the the amount of volume and and load that he can handle now obviously isn't going to be as great as when he was younger. I know plenty of guys that are older that are uh doing too much. They're like in the gym all the time. They're training six days, seven days a week and you're you're not going to be able to make any progress that way. You're going to get a lot of overuse injuries. You know, uh I would say and back that off, you know, get the most out of what you're doing so that you don't necessarily have to do as many sets. So, I would actually even consider possibly going heavier. Believe it or not, going heavier, but getting more out of the weight that you're >> the shorter duration of exposure to it. >> Yeah. I found that with with absolutely pristine control in my weight, my risk of injury goes down. And if I'm I'm pushing to my ultimate max, I can continue to grow muscle, but I can only handle a very limited amount of that. You know, at my ultimate highest strength, man, I dialed it all the way back to one day on, two days off, and I was at my strongest and at my biggest, too. Like now in my 40s, right, which, you know, I tried all through my 30s to grow, grow, grow. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, in my 70s. Um, so yeah, just throwing that out there to him is how many days are you training? Make sure that your intention is in those sets. And then ask yourself like, well, what can I cut back? And and also too, look at your technique. Like, are you are you like locking out your knees on the leg press and stacking your joints? Are you locking out hard or are you do trying to use constant motion, constant reps, you know, where you can kind of just keep the tension in the muscle versus like going to the joints? That'd be something I would add to it. Those are the first places. I think that anything else gear-wise or anything like that would be a band-aid. And hey, part of it is going to be wear and tear, too. If he's been doing construction and he's 60 now, you're probably going to have some sore joints, you know? Don't make it worse with your with the thing that you love, you know? Right. Uh, how about this one? Let's see. This episode has me wondering what a four weeks true TRT, four weeks of TRT plus would be like. Sorry Dave, I know you hate that term. This could be a fun experiment for a few rounds because we're talking about like the short two week on two week off cycles. >> The thing is if you do um le let's all right let's say let's be conservative and say TRT is 120 to 150 milligram a week. Yeah. >> And your TRT plus is 300 milligrams a week. So, we're still low dose. We're not doing anything extraordinary for the you do your four weeks of your TRT plus, >> right? >> The first two weeks, if not three weeks of just your TRT, you're still going to be above range. You're not going to be back in range unless you do a clear break to allow your levels to drop down. As soon as you add TRT in, so as soon as you go week four, 300 milligrams, end of that week, start my TRT. The 300 level that you've achieved in your bloodstream is going to start to drop. But then you put your TRT in, it's going to push you back up a little bit. So let's let's do some spitball numbers. These are made up. These aren't accurate in any way. At the end of my four-week period of 300 milligrams of test a week, I have a circulating enrol of 60. >> Okay, >> I'm dropping if I don't do anything, I will drop that by 20 and mole a week. >> Right. >> Okay. >> At the end of week one, my end mole is 40. But then I put my TRT in, which takes me back up to 50. End of week two, I'm 30. Then I put my TRT in, it takes me back up to 40. end of week three I'm 20. Then I put So I'm back into natural ranges, but then I put my TRT back in. I'm now 30. So I'm just above range. So it's not till week four that I'm back into a TRT natural range. And then week five, I'm starting my blast again. So you're basically not really having much time off. >> No. So it's not I'm not you you can do what you want at the end of the day. There's no harm. Well, so there's no harm. That's wrong way of putting it, but you know, there's no judgment in in if you want to do things a certain way. That's entirely your choice, but just make sure you understand what you're doing and how it affects you. So, in that scenario, you're not returning to TRT. The only way you'd return to TRT would be four weeks of 300, two weeks of nothing, then my TRT, then back to my four weeks of 300. Now, that would work in that you'd have a complete clear space, but if you're going to go straight from any sort of elevated level into a TRT, just be aware that your period of elevation is going to be extended. Yeah, I would agree with that. I think that that's something to consider. All right, how about this one? Um, we had another guy who was uh another older guy who says, "Uh, love the podcast. Great job." very educational, 65 years old, 140 pounds. I've been working out for 50 years plus. Um, I've done 10 week cycles, maybe once or twice per year. I've been, it's been a year now since my last uh cycle of 200 milligrams of test and 200 milligrams of deca. Good gains. I'm ready to go again with the same cycle, but now I have EQ and mast. Your opinions. What does he mean the same cycle? That's like, "Hey Dave, I love chocolate cake. Every year I've eaten chocolate cake on my birthday. This year I'm going to do the exact same thing and eat chocolate cake. Only I have vanilla cake." Yeah, he's going to need a test base with either of those compounds. He could easily replace the Deca with the EQ or the Deca with the mast. To be fair, I wouldn't run EQ and mast together, both even with a test base because of the double anti-estrogen effect that's going to be there because you're going to get a ser effect and an AI effect. So, I'd pick one or the other. He could run the test deca plus mast or testa plus EQ if he's wanting to increase his overall dosing >> or he could do the test and either the EQ or the mast. That would be my opinion. >> Wow. Another older guy, Dave. And these are all your fat. >> It must be. It must be. They're like, "This guy's 57. All right. I want to look like him, you know." Or no, they're like, you know, 5 guy. >> There's guys that are like, "I'm 65. I look better than this guy. This is awesome, man. I feel good about myself. I'll watch this show." So, all right. Says, "Uh, I'm over 60 and I've been training for a whole year and hardly any results, but I've gotten very strong. I do everything correctly. My muscles just don't grow in bulk. Can you guys please help me? He said nothing about his diet. I'm very curious to know. I bet you >> I mean my first my first two points would go to one, are you natural or are you on TRT? Um because low hormones could be choking your progress. And I'm not saying you need to go on cycle, but you you know if you can at least maintain relatively healthy hormone levels, then that's going to help with your progress. >> Yeah. >> And the other thing is where your diet is because even if your diet was crap, >> if you were eating in excess, you would have gained weight. >> Yeah. >> So if you've not gained any whatsoever, then you've got no excess going in a calories. So one thing is you need more calories but obviously they want to be a decent quality and a good source. So they would be the two things I'd be looking at where where is my diet from a quality but also from a quantity point of view because you know at the end of the day if you're training hard you're gaining strength which means your training is stimulating progress but you're not growing or gaining any physical size or weight then you can't be eating enough calories. It's as simple as that. And then the other aspect is where are you hormonally? And you know, do you need TRT? Are you using TRT? What's going on with that? >> I'll say this, a couple things. Number one, uh, diet-wise, if he's not getting enough food in, the place I would start is with your protein intake. I would shoot for I don't even care what his body weight is. Let's go. Let's just go to two grams per pound of actual body weight, not lean body mass, but start there. And if you just make that change and nothing else, I bet you that you would see some progress. You you could do a lot more with the diet, that's for sure. I don't know what he's doing now, though. Split that up into, you know, four meals, five meals a day. You could make a couple of those meals shakes, you know, 50 grams of protein per shake. But, you know, wherever he's at, figure it's probably going to be, you know, 200. It's probably going to be anywhere from 300 to 400 grams of protein. 400 might be a little bit high, you know, if if he's if he's 150 pound, you know, but so that would be Yeah. Yeah. So somewhere in there, though, you know, 1.5 to two grams of protein per >> Is your math failing you today, mate? >> Yeah. Yeah. I had to think about it. I was like, well, if he's Yeah, he might not need that much. We'll go with 1.5 to two grams per because normally I would say lean body mass, but in this case I'm saying like total body weight, you know, which if he's really obese, I started thinking, well, maybe that could be a a problem there. You know what I mean? >> All right. And you can reach out to, you know, somebody to coach you. Reach out to Dave or I. These are exactly the situations that we deal with every day. Um, let's see. Oh, this was an interesting point from Dan Smith. He's one of our longtime listeners. He's been following the channel forever. Uh he said, "My memory on shorter cycles back in the day where they were because of the lack of gear. Muscle media 2000 magazine used to run articles about short cycles. One article was about a guy who traveled and stayed in Mexico for one week every month, but didn't want to smuggle gear back into America. From memory, he would take something like one sustenon amp on Friday night, another amp on Saturday and Sunday morning, something along those lines. And um then and being a long act being a long acting um he'd have superfysiological levels of testosterone for at least three to four weeks and then he'd top up again on his next visit. That's interesting, huh? There there's Yeah, I mean there will be definitely loads of stories about people based around circumstances. I know like offshore lads that >> Yeah. >> do that sort of thing. You know what I mean? They'll load up when they're here because they've got four weeks offshore where they know they can't have everything. >> It's not ideal, but you you work around the circumstances you're given, don't you? >> Feedback from the last episode on anadrol profile. Uh he said it gives me bad headaches. I told him, "Hey, check your blood pressure." Because that's one thing we didn't mention. It's notorious for high BP. >> Yeah. Sorry. It is. It is a booger for blood pressure. Yes. >> Yeah. A couple people mentioned headaches. >> No, I used to get splitting headaches of Anadrol. >> Uh just finished a 10-we cycle of anavar 50 milligrams a day. Been off for about 3 weeks now. And boy, do I miss the pumps. You mentioned that a 10 milligram dose is effective and safe, but how long could you run 10 milligrams? I don't think that was us. It definitely wasn't in that context. >> Yeah. I wonder if he's mistaking us another >> I'm going to say something now that might rattle a few cages. >> Oh, Dave's going to rattle cages today, guys. >> Okay. Um, and I It's not directed at any one person, but that comment has stimulated it. If you've been off drugs for three weeks and you're now looking for justification to go back on drugs within three weeks because you missed the effect of the drugs, replace that drug with any other drug in the world and you're talking about an addict behavior. >> Yeah. I mean, it would be negative. I think it's important that you've got to be >> you've got to develop a healthy relationship with any substance you use. >> And that means you have to understand that time away is important in the overall management of your health with that substance. It's like alcohol. You know, you want to go out and get drunk. No big deal. Not going to do your do that every bloody day, every bloody weekend. We're gonna have problems. >> And that's Dave. What I want to throw in is that that's the element isn't the wanting to do it. It's the willingness to do something that compromises your health. That's where the issue is. >> So when when you start with this chain of thought, you really need to step back and go, whoa, whoa, hang on a minute. You know, this is I'm looking for ways to justify more drug use. I've had a successful cycle. Yeah, the pumps have gone. Big deal. Train hard. Work as hard as you can in this natural phase in getting to the stage you were with the with the anavar and then the next time you use drugs you will see progression. >> Yeah. >> But if you step right back into some form of chemical crux all you're going to see develop is a psychological dependency that I can't grow, I can't progress, I can't do anything unless I'm using drugs. >> Agreed. And that's the very thin end of a very slippery slope that I end up dealing with on the opposite end two three years down the line >> when people are actually facing problems but now have this real mental difficulty of stepping away from compounds >> because they have become so much of their identity. >> I mean I know someone who had a triple bypass because they couldn't do it. They couldn't leave who they felt they were away. >> Yeah, it is. But it's a it's a fact. Now, this is very early days and this may sound like a big overreaction and potentially it is, but it also sends really strong warning alarms to me. Look, you you're on the edge of something here and it's very early in your usage. If you're already down that thought process, just take a moment, step back, and just reassess where you are. No anabolic use is safe in the true meaning of the term, but you can manage risks and you can minimize risks, but there's no safe. You can't just take an anabolic and and forget about it. You know, they they have the potential. >> Yeah. And the 10 milligrams antiviral, that wouldn't have been us. We've always said, I mean, 5 10 milligs, it will be beneficial to enhance performance, to get a better pump, but it's not going to lay on a bunch of lean muscle tissue for somebody that wants to become a bodybuilder. You know, it's just not the type of cycling that we would use. We've discussed it many times. We looked at that study that Scott Stevenson had. It was like 40 to 60 milligrams was the like optimal quote unquote >> uh yeah dosing for growing muscle putting on lean tissue that's not for feeling better in the gym you know or being >> no I mean if you want to feel better in the form take a pre-workout pump pump agent >> yeah there are a lot of things you could do and heck man I would honestly say something like growth hormone would be a great consideration between cycles to be able to continue getting great pumps not be dealing with the the same things that you're dealing with from uh you know any any uh anabolic steroids. So I'd consider something along those lines possibly. Uh have a question for you guys. Okay, back more about anadrol because we got some questions on that from last week. Would an be good for sprinting? I have a bottle at home. Uh I do a lot of cardiobased highintensity workouts on 200 milligrams of test e. Cheers. Dude, Dave, I remember trying to run on dbol. I got halfway around the block and I couldn't walk any further because my calves were so pumped. >> Yeah. So, there's a couple of properties around anadrol that actually would make it sound attractive, but there is one big factor which you've just alluded to that makes it very unattractive. Anadrol. Anadrol increases red blood cells. So in a high cardio, high stamina sort of scenario, that's useful. That's that's beneficial to performance. The issue is going to be the horrendous bumps that rolls going to cause, particularly like lower black bumps, which is probably going to make your physical performance impossible to actually even do. >> Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I wouldn't wouldn't be the choice drug of choice in in in my book personally. Um but but I mean the the RBC and hemoglobin effect would be beneficial, but the pump side and and that element of it would be and not just a slight it' be an extreme negative. I mean we've I think you've experienced the back pumps where you walk >> you walk 30 yards and you've just got to sit down because you're in that much pain. >> Yeah. And all debball any of that stuff. Uh, can you get a rebound effect from short cycles on then off until clean? Yeah, absolutely. I Dave, I've got a guy that I'm working with right now competing this weekend. He's used only TRT through the whole prep. Okay. And then toward the end last couple weeks, he he's like, "Hey, I can get some windstroke. Do you think that would help?" And I was like, "Sure, we can throw it in." So all he's been on for the entire prep has been windstroke for the last couple weeks plus his TRT. He is peeled and now in the offseason he wants to run a cycle. He hasn't really run a lot of gear before but yeah. So I we're going to go straight away. You know obviously there's factors post show but the reality is Yeah. Yeah. It's all in the diet and your insulin sensitivity right >> for rebound. Yeah. Yeah. It's and I I think it's hard when you come off the back of a show prep because you you do you you want to eat what you've denied yourself for for 16 weeks, 20 weeks, whatever it is you've been doing. Uh but if you can control that rebound, the the growth you can get off that can be as good as as a large cycle. Um, it's surprising how well you can manage a rebound and how much productivity you can get out of it if you can reverse diet. But it's challenging when you've been dieting for so long to then be back on diet and just slowly increasing your food. It's a grind, particularly if there's family pressures as well. >> Yeah. So this guy says, um, my first cycle was back in 1983. It was, uh, 100 tabs of Crex anapolin. He said they were 5 milligrams, not 50 milligrams >> and I put on 15 pounds. I don't I've never seen 5 milligram anadrol before. Have you? >> Yeah. Yeah. It actually comes in as low as 2.5s medically. >> Yeah. Huh. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I haven't seen those. I thought that 50 was the popular number. >> I think when you go back to the 80s, you're you're you're really looking now at the medications. You're looking at prescription drugs that were available on the black market. You're not looking at UGL. >> But you said how much what was the medical dosing didn't you have? >> Oh, the medical dosing as high as a milligram per kilo. Yeah. Even for children, but I have seen it is medically available from 2.5 upwards. >> Okay. Oh, we have some Uncle Dave's wisdom questions here. We got a couple of them today. People actually asked >> People actually asked you Uncle Dave's wisdom stuff. So, we'll get to those. Um, let's see if we have time for a couple more. How long How long we been running here for, Dave? What's going on? >> 48. >> 48. All right. All right. Let's see if we can find one more good one, guys, and then uh and then we'll get to Uncle Dave's wisdom. Um, let's see. Let's see. There's someone about uh fake gear. Let's see. Uh best test doses not to lose muscle. Uh second cycle. Oh man. Oh, okay. Here's here's the guy we missed last week. I I'm glad I saw this one, Dave. He said, "Hey, man. Thanks for mentioning me at the end of the show. Here's my question again since you didn't get to it. Hi guys. Love the show. I looking forward to every installment. I just had my bloods done by Eval. Whole experience was superb. I have a question about gyno. As a teenager, I had really bad gyno uh and consider uh for a considerable amount of time. Um sore large buildup of hard tissue in the nipple and breast size equivalent of that of my female peers. Oh, poor guy. Um then after puberty, uh it went it just went. Uh now in my late 40s, I feared uh suffered from gyno. Uh I feared suffering from gyno when hopping on gear as I thought I would be genetically predisposed to problems. As it turns out, I can blast the test in deca a gram and a half plus with no AI and have never had a problem. Why do you think this is and is it a common phenomena? Uh thanks to you both. Uh Daryl, he says, "I also have to ask Uncle Dave because I for one really appreciate his pearls of wisdom." With Dave being a a man mountain incapable of using his size to his advantage and having no doubt been faced with adversity on many occasions, what would be a few tips on controlling temper and knee-jerk reactions? Um, I'm uh quite a fellow, quite a mellow fellow. Um, but everyone has their breaking point and I'd love to know what worked for Dave. Thanks again and keep keep up the stupend stupendous work. >> So, on the gyno front, >> if I can read today. Gez, >> the hormonal the hormon hormonal environment has obviously changed. Do you get people with high estrogen tolerances? Yes, I'm one of them. um used to be able to go stupidly high with estrogen with having no negative impacts from it. So that isn't I wouldn't say it's common, but it's also not unusual. You know, that there are plenty of people out there that do actually cope with high estrogen quite well. What's changed in the environment between then and now is very hard to say. Um you know, through puberty, we we're developing both hormonally, but we're also developing hormonally receptor- wise as well. And obviously there was a definite amount of sensitivity for some reason at some point something you've grown out of which is is quite common in pubes and gyno that that the individual will grow out of the condition. So it's not always um a preset for that. It's going to be a problem for the rest of your days. Unfortunately we're not knowing where hormones were when you were a teenager. It's difficult to say what the driving factor is. It could have potentially been that DHT levels were low. DHT has a very anti-gyno action naturally >> and obviously when you're you're using anabolics you you you do have a level of increased DHT. So it may have been something along that lines. It may be that when you were younger because DHT was low that you've become particularly sensitive to DHT. So now when you use anabolics, the DHT levels that raise in line with your testosterone level are acting a little bit above and beyond from you from a point of view of being anti- gyno. >> Yeah. >> But it is difficult to say without about without more data. Now from a temper thing, I found personally that aggression for for a large percentage of people comes from fear. H >> or a lack of feeling in control. Now, for me, when I was on gear and when I was big, because I felt capable, because I was strong, I was big and I had the presence to be able to command the room. I didn't get aggression because I didn't find myself in situations where I was fearful or where I felt I was out of control. I always felt I could control the environment I was in, which meant there was no fear. So, there was no reason to get aggressive. We're all going to lose our tempers at some point. It's part of nature. And sometimes it's quite healthy to do so. And I mean, I've had situations where I've had people taking advantage or taking the piss. And I've tried to stay calm and be calm and they've continued to take the piss despite discussing the problems and explaining my position with it all and everything else. And it's only taken five minutes of me losing my temper for them to completely stop the negative behavior. I've not had to do anything physical. I've just had to verbally lose my my cool with them >> and then they're brand new. was until I got to that point, they thought it was just words. There was never going to be anything to back it up. So, it's difficult to judge when display a temper is necessary because it reinforce the intention that you've expressed you are capable of and when words are just enough. But I'd always start with the words. And I think also with being big and being strong, I I also automatically had a reservation about deploying that. >> I could imagine. Yeah, >> because she's like, "Oops." Yeah. A lot of damage done. Um, and I've never looked particularly approachable. Um, I have >> I have what most people call resting [\h__\h] face. Uh, so when I'm not actively engaged, I do look grumpy and miserable as [\h__\h] I don't look very approachable. I'm even now I'm 350 pound with a bald head covered in tattoos. So, I've spent a lot of my life, I'm not resentful of how I appear, but I've also been conscious of the fact that I've had to break the ice to do away with a preconception that people may have of who or what I am because of the way I look. >> Yeah. >> Um and and sometimes I mean the legal work and stuff like that has gone a long way into supporting that because of how I have to present myself and how I have to talk in those sort of situations. So, um, yeah, I I mean, I would never ever say get rid of all aggression because I don't think it's advisable, but I think you just need to learn when to deploy it. And even though it may be aggressive, it still needs to be controlled. When you lose your temper, when you lose aggression, when you're out of control is when the problems start. And that's usually born out of of fear, but not necessarily a fear of being scared of something. It it can be a fear of a lack of control or a fear of a lack of being able to control the environment in which you're in. >> Yeah. Hey, listen. We've got two more Uncle Dave's advice questions. >> And also too, we are live, but for some reason, we're not seeing the comments. So, we have a whole slew of comments, man. >> We got a whole of comments. Yeah, me either. But I just went to the page itself and I commented to say, "Hey guys, we haven't been able to see the comments on this episode." I've been trying to do things a little bit different, improve the recording. My video looks crappy over YouTube right now, the live version. So anyway, >> it looks crappy to me as well. >> Yeah, it's not just you, man. So, uh, hey, real quick, I'll say this, man. I was never the biggest guy, even at my biggest. But because I was a very small human being, like 125 pounds when I started lifting, I've never felt big. And I've had people tell me like, "Oh, I wouldn't want to mess with you, you know, or like, you know, nobody's going to want to mess with you, man. Even at my biggest." And I'd be like, I don't see it. Like, why why is that? You know what I mean? So, I I I never felt like the biggest guy. But I will say this, as a concealed carrier, >> I have to be really careful with my attitudes and my temper and you know, I honestly man, the first time that I carried, I was like, "Oh shit." Like, I'm not going to flip anybody off on the road. You know what I mean? I'm not going to provoke anything because I don't want this to escalate in any way because I recognize the damage I could do. It's interesting that they have statistics on concealed carriers. you know, obviously we have like a ton of FBI background checks and stuff to be able to do what I do. Um, so like we are actually considered to be people who don't commit crimes and now I recognize too, man, like this is a situation where like you don't there's no small fights in the world. And when you're a kid and you start picking fights, you don't expect it to end in the worst case scenario, you know, but at this point I realized like, man, I don't want anything to go wrong. I want to avoid fights by anyway. Oh, I'm sorry. You know, somebody cuts me off and gives me the finger and then they want to get in a fight at the light. Yeah, my bad, man. You know, you you take care. You know what I mean? I'd much rather take that attitude than end up in a, you know, a pissing match that that literally changes my life forever. You know, >> I I think you've also got to calculate what's the cost to you for that moment of outlet. What's the cost to you? And that's one thing I always ran in the back of my head is if I do this, what's the cost to me? >> I mean, there were times when I went, "Fuck the cost." >> Of course, two more. Uh Jake has one for us. He says, "Dave, I bet there's a lot of young people listening that could use some advice from a ladies man like you that knows how uh to kick up a girl or a boyfriend. Um, that's what you should do for Uncle Dave's wisdom sometime. I'm interested. I want to hear how you picked up your first boyfriend. >> I I have never been very good in the opposite sex attraction game. Um, never been very good. Always lack confidence in that department um to be honest. But what I will say is that if you what do you want out of the partner? Are you wanting a relationship or are you wanting a sexual encounter? If you're wanting a sexual encounter politely, but just request it >> politely. >> Saves a lot of hassle. >> Excuse me, miss. would you >> politely but just you know it saves a lot of hassle >> politely >> but if if you're looking for a relationship then I think the only way you're going to foster a relationship with somebody is if you are true to you and I think the biggest problem is and we all do this we we go out on the pull wearing our best clothes in our best behavior wearing possibly items of jewelry that we can't really afford or, you know, so much makeup that we don't look like what we really do. Uh, and we we give this best foot forward appearance to somebody and yes, it attracts somebody, but they're attracted to who you're pretending to be. They're not attracted to you. >> Yeah. And then two months down the line when you're sat there farting, picking your nose, and flicking bogeies over the room, they look across at you and like, "What the hell have I got with?" And it's like, "What's the next morning? >> I just I just lied." So, I'm not saying you should be deliberately uncou, but at the same time, I think you should be true to you because otherwise you're just false advertising. >> I like that. >> And you're building a relationship that's going to be based on a lie. and with the best liar in the world trying to maintain that long term, it's not happening. Where if you're honest and upfront and you know you're truthful with your prospective partner, then they they know what they're buying. They've got a proper inspection of the car they're getting and they they can say, "Well, yeah, it's worth the money and the mileage or it's not." Um, and so I do think that when you're looking for a relationship, openness and honesty is is key. And you shouldn't be ashamed of your past because it is your past. And if a person can't accept your past, then they can't accept you. Then they're not the person for you. Despite how attractive they may be or how happy they make you or how much they make you smile or how much they give you a boner, it doesn't really matter if they can't accept you for you. If you have to pretend to be somebody you're not, then that isn't a relationship. >> Yeah. I think that's all great advice, man. All right, one more. I can't believe it. We finally got some questions for Uncle Dave's Wisdom uh today. All right, here's another one for Dave from Crohn's Lifter. I turned 30 this year and I love bodybuilding more than ever, but I also love my life and I'm struggling to balance work with passions and everything I want to get out of the next 30 years or so. Um, oh, I cut it off. It says, "Read more." Um, how does he suggest creating the right balance? And he might have said more after that, but uh I I think he probably said, "I love the show, especially Scott. Dave sucks, but I listen to him anyway." Yep. Those are his words. I I read it. >> Yeah. >> Difficult. And the reasons it's difficult is that if you want to succeed at something, as in truly succeed at something, there's a strong chance it's going to take 75% of your effort. So it doesn't leave a lot for everything else. So if you've got multiple avenues you want to pursue, there's two ways of looking at this. One is period period periodizing period periodizing periodizing. >> There you go. >> The effort on the pursuit. So for argument's sake, I'm 30 years old. I'm into bodybuilding. For the next five years, I'm going to really focus on that. >> I'm not going to completely ne get neglect everything else because you still need to work and have a career and everything else. But, you know, I'm really going to put a lot of my spare time into bodybuilding. But that means you're not going to have time for other factors. And then you go at 34, 35, bodybuilding stops and I'm going to focus on settling down or I'm going to focus on my family or I'm going to focus on my career. Or the other thing is to accept that you are not going to be 100% at everything because it's just not possible. So you create a balance of what level of effort you're willing to give to the particular pursuit. So it might be Monday to Friday lunchtime I am a bodybuilder. I live breathe bodybuilding but then Friday afternoon and the weekend I'm dedicated to my family or I'm dedicated to longboarding or I'm dedicated to macra or whatever it is your other thing is. Or it could be another switch where Monday to Thursday it's work 100% focus on work and then Friday, Saturday, Sunday it's bodybuilding. So you might be have to do some sort of structuring. I'm not saying exactly like that but some sort of structuring where you devote time to one act and time to another. It might be that you know what I'm going to get up at 5. I'm going to train before work and I'm not even going to turn my phone on or look at it till after I finish training. So my my training in the morning is completely bodybuilding focused. Diet's easy to fit in around things that actually isn't that hard. We just make it hard. Uh and then I'm going to focus on my work to a set time and then after that time I'm going to focus on family time. And I think you sometimes have to be that structured. You have to be you have to be that divisionalized to get it to work to some degree. I struggle. I've always struggled. Everything tends to merge. I mean, here I am away supposed to be family time on holiday and this isn't a digger doing the podcast, but obviously I've still got client checkins to do. I've still got Evo work to do. And I try to create a balance where Monday to Wednesday I work till about 12 1:00. Then I take 2 3 4 hours off and then I'll do an hour an hour and a half in the evening to catch up. And then the rest of the week I'll just try and fit it in on the phone as I can in and around whatever we're doing. And SH's really really tolerant of it because there's points when even I get pissed off with it and it's like on holiday I just want to break. >> Yeah. >> But I've never quite got the balance right. But when I was into bodybuilding, it was bodybuilding. And as a result, everything else did suffer. So when I stopped with the bodybuilding, I focused more on family life and I focus more on work, but that meant the bodybuilding stopped. But that's me. I am a bit all or nothing in what I do. >> Yeah. For better or worse. >> Yeah. I sort of have to It's just how I work. So it's like I struggle with the current situation which is working till lunchtime because I'm doing the work and I'm thinking I can't be asked with this because you know it's lunch I've only got to go to lunch time. Where if I know I'm working all day I'm into it. I'm doing it. I'm focused. I'm on with it. But when it's broken up like that I struggle with it. >> I either sort of need complete time off or full bore on work. I'm quite happy to work seven days a week. Doesn't bother me in the slightest. I'll happily crack away at that. But if you tell me that you're having two afternoons off, then I'll struggle because I've got this mix now and my brain doesn't like it. >> Well, listen, I I'll say this. I'll add something here, Dave, is that I except for competing when you you're competing, especially toward the end, things do get really difficult. And I would say that I've actually used um I've used a a not a quote, but something John Meadows had said. I asked him about this once and he said, you know, I tell my wife that last four to eight weeks, you know, it it is going to have to be more bodybuilding. I have to make that the priority because that's the point where things are hard. You're not going to have as much energy. But then after that and and so they have an they have an understanding, you know, you go into that knowing his wife knows that this is what he's going to have to do. But then after that, he doubles down on giving attention to the family. You know, that's what he that's what he said he did. and and they had an agreement going into that. So outside of that last four to eight weeks of a contest prep, I don't understand why it is so much work to be a bodybuilder because you can make all the progress that you need in four days of training per week. Like if you really want to pair it down even 3 days of training if that style of training works for you. The food you have to eat anyway. If you love bodybuilding, then it's not not necessarily going to be convenient, but you can you can make it work while doing everything else, you know, everything else in your life. So, I I don't believe that it has to be this or bodybuilding. I've heard people say like, "Oh, no, man. I need to spend, you know, more time." And yeah, I I agree, man. You can't neglect your family. You can't neglect your job, but you never should have to begin with is my >> I think sometimes the problem isn't so much what you can do, it's the perception of the people around you. So like when I was pushing hard >> Yeah. >> I had no issue with sticking to the diet. I had no issue with eating the food and carry the food with me. But Sha hated it. >> Well, then that's a relationship thing. And >> yeah, she didn't like she didn't like the fact that we couldn't sit down and have a normal meal together in her head. And it's like, well, what difference does it make if I'm eating chicken or rice? >> And if you're eating a burger and chips, what's the diff? She she wanted me to share in her activities. And that's where the problems were. It wasn't that I couldn't eat the food. It was that the partner's relationship was struggling with my adherence to that program. Um, so sometimes it's it's not difficult in a sense of you being able to do it. is difficult in a sense of it working within your relationship. >> I've I you know and I've I think that's something as a coach this is something I try to really manage. I didn't pay as much attention to it but in the past but now I I want somebody to have the experience where they're integrating bodybuilding into their lives. I think it's important that they have talks with their significant other so that they everybody's on the same page. And I think that, you know what, there's no reason that for most of the year that you, you know, you should be able to have an off-planned meal. You know, let's say that you guys like to always go out on Sundays and do a certain thing. Well, like, let's make that work and we can figure out your food to accommodate that. Maybe that might mean that you're not eating quite as many carbs on, you know, your non-training days to offset some additional food that you're getting on that day. I think that there is a way to make that work. You know, at the end of the day, I I feel like people sometimes like it it to me sometimes it's a copout honestly because then >> I can see where you are without Yeah. >> Then you know what ends up happening is they're like, "Well, I got to you know, I want to dedicate this to the family." You are important, too. You're important. And if you're if you you know, taking care of yourself is important. And I'm not saying like, "Oh, bodybuilding is a selfish thing and you need to be selfish." No, you need to think of everybody else. But you need to make it so that you are responsible for all your stuff. They're not responsible for cleaning out your dishes in the sink. They're not responsible for making your foods. They're not responsible for keeping you on time. And if you happen to go a couple hours over on a meal because you're out with family, you need to be responsible for like sucking it up and dealing with that. Don't make any of bodybuilding their problem. You know what I mean? >> If I was 10 minutes late for a meal, I was one ratty grumpy [\h__\h] >> Yeah. She doesn't. Nobody wants to be around that, man. So, it's like, >> no, I I know. And it is. I was so programmed to eat that that if if anything knocked me off that schedule, I struggled. >> I'm not saying I wasn't like that too at times, man. Like, this is me reflecting what I had learned to do. >> It's easier when we're sat where we are now, isn't it? Because we're not in the thick of it anymore. But, yeah. I mean, he's >> I do have clients that do it, though, you know, and and it was something I was able to achieve. My first couple contest preps, I was a bear to be around. I'm sure of that. But I I think it's important that we learn to make it, you know, if if at the least we're not taking away from the people that love us. And if we can do that, that means like you doing that is what loving bodybuilding is all about and keeping it in your life. I used to think years ago, Dave, that like, oh man, and this is back when Gold's Venice was something like, oh, dude, to be a pro and like just hanging out in Gold's all day and training and taking a nap and going to the firehouse, eating clean food, staying on track with my meal, blah blah, all of that. That's like hardcore bodybuilding. No, dude. Hardcore bodybuilding is competing at Mast's Nationals, having a family with three or four kids, you know what I mean? having a full job, managing all that stuff, still going to the family picnics like my client Nick Fakolo did this past year. He nailed it, man. And guess what? His family was utterly thrilled for him when he got his pro card. Like, they were excited. Versus the opposite being like, "Yeah, you won your show, but you're also two steps away from a divorce, you know?" >> Yeah. Um I've I've got a client, he don't compete. He's probably spent less than two weeks in his own home in the last year. >> H okay. >> He's a bodyguard >> to um and he um he runs a team and he is constantly on the move, constantly in different countries and it is literally lottery. Where are you this week? What what what have we got? What food can we work with? Can we trade? >> Okay. >> And he still managed to make very solid progress. >> Yeah. I mean, he's still sitting at 280 pound, still runs regularly, you know, he's not shredded, but under the circumstances, the fact that he makes any progress at all is is outstanding. And it it can be done. There's definitely it can be done, but there will I think sometimes as well, and I've been guilt this myself, where you you fall into the it has to be extreme, it has to be this, you know, I have to do this that and the other. And there is there is an element of balance can be achieved. It all depends on what level you're looking to achieve and where your genetics put you in your ability to achieve that. >> True. >> Good genetics make it a lot bloody easier. >> Yeah. Well, listen Dave, I appreciate you taking the time on your vacation again to hang with us. And that's Dave Crosslin from France. >> And uh we'll make sure everything's fixed next time, guys, so that you'll be able to hang with us on the live stream. Uh, on that note, I'm working on getting our video podcast available at Spotify because as of right now, Spotify is just audio, but I'm going to start boosting up our engagement at Spotify. So, definitely comment over there, follow us on Spotify. Um, we need a second outlet. You know, I I'm sure you guys saw that anabolic bodybuilding is down right now. Shout out to Paul, man, and I wish him the best with it. Uh, it it's a scary thing that we are in this position. We are we are literally trying to help, you know, and we don't want to add negativity or or, you know, add anything that could hurt people with what we do. Uh I wish that YouTube could understand that, you know. Um but definitely make sure that you follow the backup channel, follow the the YouTube think big uh YouTube live channel, you know, that that's where we air the live podcast as we record them. That will be our fallback. Spotify will be our fallback. We have our Rumble. We'll be posting over there. And of course, the show's always out on audio podcast and join the Think Big Facebook group. Facebook is an awesome. They seem to be editing and deleting some of our posts. It's another meta app. But hey, you know, it's something we have. We've got over 2,000 people in the community there. We'd love to have you guys there, especially if things go dark, you won't lose contact with us, Dave. Right. >> Yeah. True. >> Go to evalanalysis.com. Get your lab work done by Dave. Go to Stum Sports Nutrition. Get good health supplements, great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle supplement.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Like closeout blowout deals, real good deals at trurnnutrition.com. Use our code think over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatine and intraworkout and protein powder. Every protein powder you can think of. Tons of great flavors. Use our code think. Patreon guys will knock out our Patreon questions next. So definitely uh fill us up with questions over at Patreon, guys. And uh Dave, are you taking new clients while you're on vacation? Are you holding off till you get home? >> Yeah, >> okay. Hit him up over on social media. We'll have that linked below, guys. And you hit me up at mcnal dietgmail.com. And for another episode of the podcast, we will see you soon. Thanks everybody. And thank you Dave. >> Pleasure.