And Nick may have been training, doing more and and feeling wrecked than was optimal for him at some point in time. >> He's still making progress, >> but he was just wasn't making optimal progress. His progress could have been better or at least now for sure his progress would be nil or be minimal or less than it currently is as he's apparently seeing. and he's optimizing cuz he trains so hard anyway by having more reps and reserve getting in more volume and he still creates he's you know obviously Nick's got pretty good genetics I think for bodybuilding his muscle personal muscle genetic code is such that resistance exercise creates hypertrophy like it just he puts that in it's like gas to a fire right >> so it's going to happen and then someone else maybe who's less genetically gifted in that sense. They may need to cultivate the signal with with more with more sets taken to failure in order to get a signal whatsoever. But then that means that they can't do as many sets because you can't recover from as many sets when you're training to failure all the time. >> What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McN and all of our programming, well, it's brought to you by uh truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there for additional savings. I just got another bag of the cookie butter whey isolate. The cold filter whey isolate. I love that freaking flavor. Use code think over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements. Get some additional savings, 10% off, plus help to support our programming. We're brought to you by Scott's book, bobbcoach.com. That's be your own bodybuilding coach. You can get the hard cover linked in the description and Scott will sign it for you. Or you can get the ebook at the website. We'll have both of those options uh down below. Of course, we have timestamps down below. Check that out. Uh and if you are new to our content, then definitely we'd love to have you along for everything. We have several shows that come out each week. So like, share, subscribe, comment, and as Dusty would say, definitely ring the bell. And last but not least, supplements.ca for Canadians and Patreon. Thank you guys for all your support over there. We try to tackle all your Patreon questions. Scott, uh, we started out with no plans for the show as of yesterday. And now we have so many plans for the show that we are not going to be able to do it all in one episode. >> Not a chance. No way. Not even close. >> We got a lot of stuff. >> There were worse problems. >> I'm excited for this. So years back, uh, I remember it was literally like several years, maybe five years ago, >> we did an episode about squeezing the muscle. Um, this past week we did a reaction to a Nick Walker training video and he talked about how he's found this additional benefit in squeezing the muscle. I know you've got the clip there. Uh, let's let the people hear that and I know you've got a lot to say on this topic. >> Okay, here we go. >> I love this. Scott's in charge of the tech stuff today. >> All right. Should I make that any larger? Is it good enough? >> That's fine. Yeah, that's good. >> I've grown the best. I've stayed rounder and I think anyone can say whatever they want. It creates detail. >> Yeah, >> that's where like >> Okay, I think I need to go back a little bit. >> Yeah, just a little bit maybe. >> Yeah, it does a lot. >> You have to. >> legs is always high rep. >> Yeah. >> Yeah, this is good. >> Any leg exercise. No less than 10. >> Okay. >> I stay around 12:15. >> 12:15 is sweet time. Yeah. No matter what, no matter what it is, I just feel like I've it grow. I feel like I've grown the best. I've stayed rounder. And I think anyone can say whatever they want. It creates detail. >> That's where like even with the whole science [\h__\h] science says squeezing the muscle doesn't bring out detail. >> I call [\h__\h] prep four to five weeks out. >> I think that's it. >> Well, let let that go for just a second because there's a little bit more. A little bit more. >> Okay, here we go. >> It was six maybe. Basically, when I got back to Jersey, I stopped worrying so much about how much weight I was doing. >> And I would just keep the negative, but I was just [\h__\h] squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. >> And that's why like my back is so detailed to the core. >> And then you see Derek who's in shape. He's conditioned. >> Not as much detail as mine. >> I like that. That was it right there. Yeah. Okay. Squeezing the muscle, >> right? Those guys are always They did a uh a photo shoot with Samson. >> Like two years ago, like in the week a few days after the Olympia, and they had they were kind of having at it. There was an exchange there that people could probably look up >> and they were just kind of having at one another. >> Um. Yeah. >> So, I think we can go back here. >> All right. Yeah. Hell yeah, man. So yeah, I thought back because we did uh an episode, man, and like I said, I think it was like five years ago now. Um where we talked about this and I know that you had a study talking about some people that were squeezing the muscle versus training with traditional reps and they weren't even using any weight. They were literally just like squeezing the muscle. >> I would love to hear you go back into this and and see what else you have to say. Yeah, there it's the no load study um counts at AL from it's like five or six years old now maybe 2018. I could look it up but people can find if they want obviously I rarely get these inquiries but if you want I'll send you the reference just let me know. Um and they basically compared traditional resistance strength. This is just for the elbow flexors with just doing a a a contraction. I think it was a maximal contraction where they just move extended and flexed at the elbow against no load and they got strength gains in the traditional group and literally nothing um in the uh in the squeeze group, we'll call it the no load training, but the muscle growth was equivalent in those two conditions. So they got no strength gains in the squeeze group, but the muscle was just as big as the guys who did get strength gains and did traditional reps. >> They got the same hypertrophic effect. So um or muscle increase effect. We don't know what happened. I don't imagine there's any hyperlasia involved, but I avoid that term muscle hypertrophy sometimes. Um so it's just kind of what you'd expect. They did not train against the load, right? They weren't imagining. There's actual studies where people just do visualization of training against the load and you can get strength gains that way. But in this case, they were doing something non-specific to training against the load where you would expect some strength gains. They didn't get the strength gains. So that's not a big deal. The interesting thing there, and I mentioned this study uh last week on a podcast, it comes up, I think, it was a couple weeks ago on a different podcast, is if you can produce at least this gives us some evidence that just contracting a muscle as it's lengthening and shortening against zero load. So, if you have a scenario, let's say, where you just have picked out the completely wrong exercise for training a given portion of a mus of a muscle. Let's say it's um the the back. He mentioned back, so it's the lower lats, but you have a really good mind muscle connection with your lower lats. You've done a lot of posing. You can you can sit there. The listeners can probably do is I can sit here and contract my lower lats. I can just make the muscle move because you're the right you're doing it. Yeah. >> Yeah. and that can be taught. So, and the mind muscle connection is something that's been investigated. Um, there's actually a study from Brad Shel where they had an an internal locus of focus or internal focus versus external moving the load and with the internal focus they actually had um better muscle growth I think just in the upper body was one of the two muscles they studied >> um and otherwise was equivalent. So it's just focusing internally in this case just contracting a part of a muscle even though biomechanically it might not be getting an optimal external load against which it would be contracting can create a hypertrophic stimulus as the study shows. So um there is something to say for a my muscle connection. There's something to say for squeezing the muscle because it's being activated even if it's a a really light load. and the thing he talked about light load training with his legs. It all this all kind of fits together. Um, and this is the thing is is these ideas are actually there's not just bro [\h__\h] I mean I don't I don't think Nick was thinking of these studies when he made that. He's thinking of his personal experience. Right. >> Right. Right. >> And that of many other people. Um there's an old there's an old um video from one of the battle for the Olympias with Milo Starv and he had totally switched it up. He's like I think he's maybe in his in his pew week or he's very close to being on on stage and he's just all he's talking about is just squeeze squeeze squeezing. He's training super light and squeezing and squeezing and squeezing. Um and he was turned on to this idea. So, this has actually been been test this sort of thing has been tested in the in the literature and I'll and I'll pull up a screen capture here to show this um where they've trained their subjects with lighter loads and made sure to keep tension on the muscle continuously, >> right? >> As opposed to heavier training where people might have a pause or you get to the full end of the range of motion. Let's see get to the last 10 15 degrees of knee extension on a squat. you're not really getting any quad activation, right? If you even think that squats are good for your quads, I tend to think that they they can have some effect, especially if you go deep. But in this particular series, um, and I'll show the authors here in just a second, >> they've actually shown that training lighter with intentionally maintaining continuous tension by not locking out. And you see um uh you see some people who have really strong benches, bodybuilders train avoid a lockout on their pecs all the time. >> Um and you you see I mean just associating empirically, anecdotally guys who do that who also have good pecs, maybe they're training more in the stretch position, what have you, but they're maintaining tension. And they call this training without relaxation in between because that's essentially what you can get especially especially um if you were to if you have to have some fibers that are being turned off some motor units being turned off to match the loading curve of the exercise. So if you get to the end of an exercise where there where it's lighter and it's easier, if you just maintain the activity of all those motor units that were active earlier on when it was necessary to move the weight, you would just blast into almost a hyperextension. You would it would be uncontrolled. You just like fly into a lockout at your knee. Yeah. >> Which would not be a good thing. So there's although the whole muscle might not be completely relaxing, although you can do that. You can lock your knees out >> on a squat. Not a good idea. um to to do that for prolonged periods. Um but there's some relaxation of the fibers and when they created conditions where that doesn't happen, where there's continuous tension or flexing so to speak, it's not exactly the same thing, but there's there's it's a related type of idea. You see an interesting thing. um it's lighter load training without the relaxation and you get fiber type specific hypertrophy in the limited studies they've done and I'll and I'll show this here just briefly just a sec um so nraba is the first name on many of these oops these studies let's see if it shows it here you can see this Mhm. >> Um the bottom let me go to the first page. So NRAA has been the first name on some of these pop off and then Venogra Gradova. Um this is a nice kind of review with a study built in. And I'll just go to the results here because it's um it's fairly complicated. They really went all in on this. But what we have here are is regular leg extension type of training L groupoups knee extension or the these were on an isocinetic device that they set up in isotonic mode. So you can set up an isocinetic lab um or rehab device to behave as if it were a free weight. Um, and then here they did uh the isocinetic or sorry the um the regular leg extension the real real free weight with a little bit of a more moderate load here a little bit higher actually in both cases. So we have C for control regular training and E means there was no relaxation. So they they they were continually um contracting without um resting in the so they shortened the range of motion to some degree and the workloads were different. We can slide across this table here. The one rep maxes were greater in the heavier training at least in this particular group. And then what you see here and this is the interesting part. This is the area of the type one muscle fibers muscle fiber type one MFI and type two muscle fibers right and we see here with the control regular training 80% of one rep max this is regular 8 to 12 rep max training um they got what you often times see in this case 23.4 versus 9.4 um% increases in type two versus type one muscle fibers. So there's more growth in the type twos what you typically see when they drop the load down. So this is this is what made me think of this when you sent the the clip that Nick was talking about those last six weeks he stopped worrying about his his loads. He's squeezing. He's maintaining tension. He's not he's not just neglecting the eccentric. He also noted that which is important I think. >> Yeah. >> And he's he's probably was using lighter loads. He went back New Jersey, new gym, but using lighter loads. And um I don't think he's going to lose in those six weeks going to lose any type one fiber or sorry, type two fiber. But when you just train that way, we see an interesting pattern here. So this is the type one fiber increases versus type two fiber. You get when you train in this way with the lighter loads at least in these this experimental design you get greater relative increases than type one fibers versus the type two. Okay. Now this is 8.2 pales in comparison to 23. This is what you get. 23 is in this case what you get from traditional without trying to avoid the relaxation. Um, so you definitely would take 23 over 8.2 for sure. >> Yeah. >> But maintaining the tension produced better type one fiber growth. So this speaks to the potential for various things. Train perhaps heavier and try to keep that mind muscle connection going at the same time where you're contracting. Um, which you can do. You'd have to have co- contractions to balance out the torqus about the joint, but you can maintain and squeeze the muscle throughout the course of range of motion. Even when you're training heavier, it's much easier to do, of course, to control the weight and those sorts of things when it's lighter. And plus, when you're training heavy, you're going to activate those fibers anyway. You're going to need to. But what this suggests is that maintaining this is a this is somewhat of a stretch from a purely scientific perspect. maintaining muscle tension. This is going to create um mechan this is going to create metabolic stress which will affect then the fiber type recruitment patterns that you have. It has a multitude of effects. Metabolic stress does play a role in the in the way in which the motor units and the fibers become activated. Um, >> okay. >> But you can you can evoke a type one specific increase in fiber size training with this no relaxation type of um strategy in place. So this was the leg extension you see the same pattern here. So like with when they on the kinetic is device traditional regular not worrying about that type two fibers grew better 19.4 versus 6.5. But when we didn't allow the muscle to relax and we maintained tension throughout, it's 17.7 versus 6.5 for the type ones. The type twos didn't grow very well. So we get a reversal of the relative changes in type one versus type two fibers. >> So that squeezing thing is going to be something that is going to potentially preferentially activate and hypertrophy the type one fibers. H >> this is one of the reasons this kind of evidence is one of the reasons why Brad Shfeld initially hypothesized that metabolic stress is important for muscle growth because this is a more metabolically stressful scenario here. Um actually if you look at it the workload is is about half in each of these if you um if you look at uh how much they were doing. So they're they're not actually moving as doing as much if you it would be interesting to see what would happen if they equated this and that's kind of what they did here. But they also changed the loads. >> But this suggests that that metabolically stressful activity could potentially be it's it definitely changes the motor unit activation strategies. Um that's just that's part of Henman size principle. That's that's part of muscle wisdom. Um there's type three and type four aference in the muscle that sense this metabolic stress feed back to the spinal cord and then alter the recruitment according to hedamman size principle so that you can keep doing things right if you create fatigue with metabolic stress there has to be some adapt adaptation in order to keep doing the reps if not you would just come to a grinding halt you' just be staring at your muscles saying what are you doing it's not what I want >> so you can get this reversal interestingly enough here they still found it when they increased to 65% of a one rep max. So more moderate load versus 85 really heavy. They still saw the same thing. So the really heavy stuff definitely went at 33% increase in type two fiber cross-sectional area. Um not much in the type one with the really heavy stuff, but the lighter stuff got after the type ones um much more so than the type two. So there's a pattern over all three of these different conditions. Whether you're really with free weights, you're on an isocinetic machine, or whether you're training a little bit heavier. In both cases, you see the heavy training focuses on type two fiber growth, the lighter stuff goes to type one. Now, someone else might have known that this played a role when he decided that widow makers would make sense for people to do. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Good old Dante. That high rep stuff does work in some cases. >> Yeah. Um there is a study from Carneera um with post-menopausal women. It's sort of the one study we have that's looked at this comparing they did a crossover study high high load versus low load 12 weeks under each condition and they had of course some people responded better really well at a high load. Some people responded a little bit to low load and then some who didn't when they crossed over. So they spent 12 weeks at either high load training or low load training leg based training. I think they took a week or two sort of break wash out period may have been between semesters happens sometimes when these are these weren't students in this case but sometimes that the researchers need to leave too. >> Yeah. Everything kind of shuts down at the school. Um they switched over then the high load went to low load and the low went to high load. those people who were non-responders or or minimal responders to either of those conditions had better responses >> second half of the study when they changed from high load to low load or low load to high load. >> Okay, >> which which suggests then that there may because you would expect the like we talked about a couple podcasts back this law of diminishing returns would suggest that in that second 12week period you wouldn't see the same gains. they would be less in general because you had your newbie gains. You might expect that the fact that gains took off for those who didn't fare so well initially. >> Yeah. >> Whereas those who did do well did see a law of dimensioning returns >> their data suggests that some people do better with light loads and some people do better with with heavier loads. >> That could be because they have relatively more type one fibers, >> right? So if you train with lighter loads and that tends to get the type one fibers and that's light versus heavy is a little bit of a a different situation. There's a study from Morton from 2016. They saw no difference in the relative hypertrophy of those two. Um these studies are using a different approach. They're maintaining tension during the set, which is exactly what I have people do during pump sets of fortitude training for what it's worth. And I and this was something that was part of that thinking when I came up with those because you're maintain there's no relaxation. You don't do them like widowmakers are are badass. Trust me, like those those can be game changers for people. But this this approach with lighter weights maintaining tension is something that may be better for certain people especially if they just have a lot of type one fibers. Um so one more thing I'll connect the dots on here too. These are just all the thoughts that float around. I'm pulling from the thought cloud in my head here. >> Okay. >> These down. So Nick talked about um higher reps for legs too. >> So >> yeah, he did. >> Yeah. So it's interesting. He he touched on a ton of [\h__\h] there all in that short little clip. Um it's let me take this down here so I can see you. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Yeah. We don't need that anymore. So um for instance and in the from the aging um literature you see that there's a preferential loss of type 2 fibers um and and in general atrophy in the lower limbs compared to the upper limbs >> right yeah >> yeah older guys legs shrink that's >> yeah you see that in the bodybuilding world too I'm just talking about the average person but yeah definitely And that's that could be a lot of things, but that that does tend to happen. >> I think knee pain can be part of like people just don't train as heavy. You're not doing 500 lb squats when you're 62 years old in most cases. >> Um, but it seems like the that that hints at different use patterns during the day and the possibility that um uh and and what happens also as older folks are are getting older is their mobility goes down. So the change in what's happening to their day their legs, what they legs are seeing on a day-to-day basis is greater in the lower body versus the upper body. Most people aren't moving around doing things. Maybe they're typing, but they're not they're not doing push-ups. They're not doing highly strenuous things. They've got a very different um loading history in the upper body versus the lower body. So the lower body when you stop using it and you stop doing that high rep continuous um static as opposed to phasic. So phasic activity is it comes in phases. You know every once in a while you got to pick up something heavy and move it with your arms, right? Or push someone away from you or you know pull on something that's heavy, what have you. But with your legs you're it's more of a a a tonic type of activity. Those aren't tone muscles are not postural muscles but they're staying active. You're walking, you're moving around. We're basically as bipeds, we're sort of we're ambulatory with the idea that we're hunters and gatherers and we'd be walking around. So, there's various pieces that kind of kind of point to the idea that a higher a lower load type of stimulus could be a good way to preserve lower body muscle mass. And you can do this. The blood flow restriction studies are amazing. They just do blood flow restriction, have older people walk on a treadmill and they get muscle growth just from blood flow restriction added to the treadmill walking. So, the fact that Nick says that his legs stay full and he has a good response from training with higher reps with legs, which bodybuilders have been saying for decades now, >> right? isn't surprising to me when you look at what the research suggests in terms of those muscles losing size when they don't receive higher rep activity of walking around as opposed to the upper body doesn't lose size >> um because it's not seeing much of a change and it's normally very phasic intermittent type of activity. So, it's very possible, not for everyone, depends on your fiber type percentages. Um, that higher rep stuff is going to be a better option for the lower body. People have seen this for years with calves many times, and bodybuilders have typically said this with legs as well. And Nick is is is reminding us that that is the case for him, too. So, yeah, it doesn't surprise me that. But um and the other thing too, you know, you he's probably doing some cardio, but people get a little bit lazy sometimes during their prep, too, and they don't move around and they're not as active. >> So doing higher reps is based on what we just saw is going to be maybe a better way to target those type ones and keep them from dropping in size. um if they don't receive the daily activity they normally would because you're spending more time napping and conserving your energy you're on a diet. >> Got a question for you. Um can you please explain the just difference in real world what the between type one and type two? >> Okay. So I got a really old video on um YouTube that we could maybe link or something. I'll send it to you. >> Okay. sitting out by my pool and I was using the dry erase board. >> Oh, I remember seeing some of those. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, um there's different ways. This is a kind of a You're asking a muscle biologist here to to tell you about fiber. So, goody. I get to talk about my favorite topic. Right. Here comes the geek. Um so, there's different ways of typing muscle fibers of figuring out what um what type they are. we we tend to see is, and this this is really sort of um an overgeneralization to compartmentalize, muscles, muscle fibers, and say they're either this or that because they're not necessarily. Um initially, you'll hear people talk about red fibers and white fibers, right? >> Yeah. That's a really really antiquated term that you won't even hear mentioned in textbooks unless they explain that that comes from research in rodents. Rabbits are like this. B sorry birds are like this and rats are like birds are like this in particular. It's why you have white meat and white meat. White meat and dark meat in birds. So um the dark meat is uh the stuff is that they would use a lot. It has lots of fat in it. It's darker because it has more myoglobin. So you have some fibers that are more enduranceoriented. Those would be the red ones in in rodents or birds. And then you have some fibers that are not so enduranceoriented. Those are white. They don't have the capillarization. They don't have the myoglobin. That's an old antiquated term. People still use red and white. I just heard it the other other day on a video. Um but what now what's has been done for 40 years or more is they look at initially looked at the type of measin ATPAS um which tells you how which is associated with how fast the muscle fibers contract. So all of this is basically, it's not exactly this, but it's basically to match how muscles get used under varying circumstances depending on what where they are in the body. So when you let's just go to we'll go right into the resistance exercise. When you pick up a very light load, let's say you're just you're picking up the pink dumbbells to hand them over to somebody to give him [\h__\h] right? And you start curling them, right? Easy. Hedman size principle will tell you that there the low threshold motor units will be activated first. Those are associated with fibers that would be called type one. >> Okay? >> When you look at those, you can see if you just did a bunch of reps like that and you then took the whole muscle out or biopsy the muscle, you'd see, okay, we only see glycogen that's gone in the type ones. Only the type ones got activated. If you isolated the nerve with the light easy stuff, you would see o only those neurons that go to the what are the type one fibers, the low threshold motor unit fibers are activated. So type ones are your enduranceoriented sort of first gear, light load, easy effort types of stuff. And then as things progress in terms of effort or the weight gets heavier, you have to call on fibers that have a different kind of measin type two. Just breaking it down into two different scenarios. There's there's another classification system where they have seven fiber types. >> Oh wow. Mo >> most of the time. Yeah. Most of the time people would just go with three type one and type two. And then there's two subtypes. Type 2 A and type 2X. Okay, >> that was it. Last podcast I showed some um data from Starin at all from 1990 and they talked about type 2 A and type 2B. That's the old way of naming these fibers in humans. Um they found something out that humans and rats don't share the same measin. Um so measin is is um one part of the actin and meosin in sarcimeir that allows the sarcimeir to shorten contract produce force. So um you've got fibers that would be type one they have a certain measin ATPAS so they can break down ATP only at a slower rate but they don't need to do it any differently because they're enduranceoriented. there's not huge power output demands from those fibers typically. Um, in terms of lifting heavy loads or do anything extremely effortful eventually or if you just start off doing something like sprinting that's harder, you're going to need to call on those type twos. Um, the type 2A's would be first and then if it's an all-out effort, the type 2 X's would be called upon. Um, and those are sort of your last gear that most people don't really tap into much at all. Those are the ones that basically disappear in older folks. You don't really see those because they don't get used. You don't use it, you lose it. >> Are we using them as bodybuilders if we're pushing to hard failure? >> Here's the interesting thing. Yeah. So, there's some the the data is somewhat equivocal on this, but mostly it's it's it's kind of a cool story actually. Mostly what you find in most studies is that and we saw this in the starin study actually I mentioned I think in the podcast is those two X's they were called 2B in that study um when you start using them that's registered in the cell nucleus that's registered because there's metabolic stress there and then they will start producing different meosin that's more efficient because they're re they're seeing a repeated stimulus then it makes more sense to have the type 2A meosin as opposed to type 2 XM. So if you I I I'll tell you the story. Everybody told it before here, but when I was in grad school, I did a bunch of muscle bi assisted with muscle biopsies. I did a whole bunch of them myself. Um and we analyzed the fibers, right? If you activate a type 2x fiber enough and train it, it becomes a type 2. >> So what you see in most training studies is the 2x percentage of 2x goes down. >> Okay? Look how much the 2X's grew. It's like, yeah, but there was it was like.7% of the total fiber area. >> They become they they they vanish. So, I had we had this biopsy from my muscle. This was in like probably 98 or something like that. Um, and there were hundreds and hundreds of fibers there and I had one type 2x fiber. I'm like, damn, I I didn't get that fiber. I've been I've been holding back. I just had so there probably was just a few of them scattered that hadn't yet converted. Right. >> Okay. >> So yeah, we you do activate type 2 X's when you start off maybe from a layoff or but eventually if you use them enough in most studies they go away. >> Um there are some studies there's like an Italian group that that showed um more of those than you would expect from many of the studies. So, I had the sense that people were training high volume once a week, brosplit types of things, proslit, um, Jay Cutler style training like a lot of bodybuilders do. It works for a lot of people. They probably are going to have very, very few of those type 2 X's, >> okay? >> Because those the type 2A's are a little more enduranceoriented. They're a little more economical at the contraction speeds you see um during resistance exercise. Now, if you're training heavier, there's actually um a few studies you can show an increase in type 2xs. If you train at really high velocities or really high efforts, you can do it with electrical stimulation. There are there's some possibility even that the type ones will become type twos. >> But you have to train with with power training in in mind. So someone I wouldn't be surprised if if a powerlifter who maybe started off with an endurance exercise background which they maybe weren't very good at what have you and they just went to just powerlifting heavy heavy stuff infrequent and actually their overall activity levels went down that they could have more type 2xs over time. >> Okay. Um it's funny you see like endurance athletes um when they drain their fibers will get bigger some studies. >> Really? >> Yeah. Yeah. It's it's not an advantage for fibers to be really large if they're exposed to endurance exercise performance because um that means they have a large this is the theory at least have a larger diffusion distance. So they need to get oxygen in and they need to get those metabolic stress byproducts out. >> Okay? >> And they need to have lots of capillaries to get the blood through there. They need to have good blood flow. They need to do gaseous exchange and metabolite exchange. Um and having a gi ginormous fiber does not help in that regard. Um so but when they stop so the adaptation then would be to shrink the fibers, right? And sometimes you see you see it's there's there's really kind of cool there's studies that show all sorts of different variance on how the muscle can adapt. The plasticity is tremendous. But when you when you d-train endurance athletes, their fibers will some get bigger and their vertical jump will go will double. >> They don't like they have like an 8 inch vertical leap and then they'll go to like 16 inches. So dtraining for them shifts them towards um more type two and or larger fibers. So an untrained muscle has lots of potentially lots of 2x depending on your genetics. And then when you train it most of the time the 2x become 2. >> Okay. Can I circle all the way back around to the beginning then? So, the the first thing we were talking about squeezing the muscle uh versus training with uh you know 10 to 12 reps to failure um both produced results. Did they produce results in different fibers? >> Yeah, I could pull that up again. Now, now you got better background. I'll pull it back up and we can look at it. >> Okay, >> it's right here. >> So, yeah, this is the cool part. So um so just look here at the at these two lines, >> right? >> So C is control and this is leg extensions and and E is no relaxation. >> Okay? So they they they they trained 50% of a one rep max really light and continuous tension as opposed to you just trained 80% one rep max and you trained heavy and they didn't worry about trying to trying to do a a squeeze or anything like that. This is as close to doing a squeeze as I know of in the research literature because they're maintaining tension throughout. Right. >> Okay. And they set up the repetitions and the tempo and the range of motion so that they never they didn't ever they used the weer continuous tension principle. I'm sure there's a weer continuous tension. He named everything he could like that's a weer principle. >> Yeah. >> Um and what we see here is that with with the standard basic heavy training not worrying about a squeeze 23% increase in type two fibers that's here. >> Mhm. and only nine in the type one fibers. >> Okay. And that was that was with the heavy weight. So you gained a lot more size in the type two fiber. Okay. I'm following you. >> Yeah. And that's what you you see. It's not always the case, but that's what you typically see in your standard resistance exercise training study where they train like this 80% of one rep max. Typically people will say it's and you're not it's not wrong to say this but the the the because generally you we actually see this here mathematically at least that the type twos have a greater potential for muscle growth. >> Yeah >> that's that's the notion and that seems to be the case. So in this case 23% the type twos um 9% the type ones with the heavy training whereas with the lighter training 18% basically 17.7 versus 8.2 too. So, the type ones grew more. >> You can see when I highlight this, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Okay. Okay. Good. Um, so yeah, with the lighter and and this if you look at the other um other conditions they had control um squeeze, we'll call it. >> The different machine and a little bit heavier loads. You seem to see the same pattern in the control. >> Type two fiber increases are greater than type one. But when you add the squeeze, you reverse that pattern. >> There's a preferential fiber type um hypertrophy that comes from training in one way versus the other. >> Okay. I've got a followup then. Yes, >> I got a follow. >> Can we do both? Can we I mean obviously not in the same set, but can we do both to try to grow all the fibers? >> Well, of course that's what fortitude training does. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And I and I've heard John about that, too. You know, he was like, "Well, I don't just want to grow. How about we grow all of them?" You know what I mean? >> Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, and that's what that's what Jordan Peters has talked about this, you know, get stronger in all the rep ranges. >> Yeah. >> Better in all the rep ranges. So, the lower the lower rep or the lower reps would tend to be the higher weight would tend to get the type twos. The lower reps, the lighter weight or the higher reps, the lower weight would tend to get the type ones. And as you pointed out as well from a different study that maybe you'll respond better to the higher reps, maybe you'll respond better to the lower reps. But if you do them all, you're going to get it all. Yeah. Like you'll get everything you can at least. >> You're covering all your bases is kind of the idea. Yeah. >> Yeah. So don't just do just one thing. Like heavy weight is great. Heavy weight for, you know, as many reps as you can get is great. But then higher reps for as many reps as you or higher weight for, excuse me, lighter weight for as higher reps as you can get is also great. >> Yeah. And you know, like another thing kind of popped up in my head is one of the things Dante has said is he calls it get funky with it. >> Okay. Um, and for people who have weak muscle groups that don't seem to want to grow, we've talked about this too. This isn't going to be everyone, but one potential reason for that is they don't have a good mind muscle connection, >> right? >> Yeah. They're not someone who can go and pick a suboptimal exercise, let's say, and contract it like in the count study and just create um a flex the muscle, flex the muscle, so to speak, squeeze the muscle even though it's not contributing to moving the load and create a hypertrophic effect from that because they just know how to contract the muscle. They can make their lat work, you know, just like you and your calves, right? >> Your calves just wanted to be activated, right? And you see the video you're doing side laterals and you're up on your tippy toes. >> Yeah. >> So your calves are just and you when you I think maybe we talking about leg pressing. You just your calves just want to be activated. There's something about your biomechanics neurologically what have you. Your calves just get activated. They're obviously not a weak muscle group on you. >> Right. um other way around. Some people who maybe don't have that mind muscle connection, haven't learned how to do it, um don't get growth from the standard exercises, even if they're not biomechanically optimal, the loading curve is off or the angle is off or what have you. Um and they can't figure out a good way to execute um where they're getting that muscle involved because of of how they're doing it. They don't have a good mind muscle connection. That's when Dante's strategy of getting funky with it is finding an exercise where biomechanically you have no choice whatsoever but to activate the muscle um in isolation the way you're intending. >> And and that it's activated in the lengthened position in a way um that it wouldn't otherwise be. You can't like do squats where you're getting like minimal loading on your quads in the last third of the range of motion. um you're going to have to do an exercise um like a uh like a [\h__\h] squat of some sort where you're leaning way back or you're going to have to do knee extensions um where you got a load like I have a like a standard like just free weight knee extension. Um so it's heaviest at the very end, right? I have I have the bench back like tipped up like this. >> So load at the beginning as opposed to if if it's just hanging like this, there's no load at the beginning. You get to here and you got you got maximum load. >> Wow. Okay. >> So, I had the whole bench up like this. So, it starts there >> and it's loaded at the bottom a little bit and then and then it's then you got a decent load at the top, too. So, you're going to have to maybe you're going to have to get funky with it. Find exercises that basically give you no biomechanical neurological option other than to activate that muscle because you're not good at doing it yourself in the way someone with a good mind muscle who has that I I consider it kind of a form of athleticism. >> Yeah. >> Way in our in the context of bodybuilding is like you know how to get the muscle activated when you're doing exercises that would use it. Um that's why and that's that's why that study was a good study for them to do with the um no load training is they they did the elbow flexors the biceps brachi etc. Right. Because look, you can see it, >> right? Unlike your back >> and you can feel it. And most people, that's just one that, you know, I can, it's my make a muscle. People do this, right? >> Right. >> So, everyone can see their biceps. They can touch it. They can feel it. It's a really easy one to create a mind muscle connection on. >> Yeah. >> As opposed to if they tried that same study and said, "Hey, I want you to contract your lower lat and go through a range of motion like this and keep it contracted." This is what I don't think it would work. Yeah, I could totally see that. >> So, that goes to the point is like those muscles that you just can't easily activate with a good mind muscle connection, you can't maintain tension, you tend to call in accessory muscles or what have you. Um, then you're going to have to do what Dante said and get funky with it and give the muscle no other choice and find the exercise that just completely exploits that muscle biomechanically. So, it has to be used. I'll tell you one last, this is kind of related to the funny thing that popped in my head. I had um years ago when I was in grad school in Texas, I was um I got up I trained people like really early in the morning and a a young guy came in and I think he I he hired me initially and then he wanted his dad to train. So his he was taking over his dad's construction company and his dad had done construction work his entire life and now he was retired and I think he was starting to gain some weight. He wasn't active. He wasn't doing all the stuff he used to do and he's looking after his dad. Let's get you in the gym, Dad, and keep you healthy, blah, blah. Um, so I'm just showing him the ropes. We're just showing exercises. The young guy knew some things the dad had no clue about this stuff, right? >> Um, so I'm like, "Okay, let's we're going to do a a bicep curl." And I think I may have seemed like he was >> professionally picking things up and putting him down for his whole life is what you're telling me. >> Absolutely. And and that's that's the whole point is he knew how to do it. He knew how to use as much muscle as possible to make it easier. you if if if you're out, you know, loading stuff onto a truck, you don't do a strict bicep curl to put it in the the back of the pickup. You know how to, you know, you use you use as much leverage you can activate as much as muscle. You swing things around, you move them so that you can do that [\h__\h] all day long. If you don't, you don't survive that work. And this guy was a survivor for decades. So, I was trying to do we got it to where I was trying to do a concentration a dumbbell concentration curl back of his elbow backed up against the inside of his thigh. Right? He's got the he's right there. I wanted to get teach him a mind muscle connection using the biceps and just how to do this exercise. Right? So, he's going to show this. He's like he's leaned over and I'm just like all I want you to do is just bend at your elbow. Just bend the elbow. Nothing else. And he's he's doing this. Of course he is. >> And I'm I'm like, "No, no, don't don't don't." Exactly. He's doing an isometric and he's leveraging the thing up, you know, >> by moving his whole body around like that. Makes it a lot easier. I'm like, "No, no, this is I want you to just move your elbow, not your upper body." And I literally I had him I I grabbed him by the front and back of his shoulder. And I was trying to keep him put in a >> moving up and he's still he's throwing me around the gym. I'm like, >> "Yeah." >> But all that was programmed in, right? He learned how to do that. So that's someone who had learned how to not do what bodybuilders are trying to do, not work a muscle in isolation. >> Yeah. >> And there's some there's some degree that I think is something that um probably is somewhat innate in us. You know, when we um you know, when we we bend down to pick something up, you know, some people just kind of bend at their back, but you squat if in most countries where they're much more agile than we are and they spend time squatting. And that's probably what we had done in our evolutionary origins. You squat down to grab things, right? But you don't do a stifflegged deadlift. >> No. >> Right. >> Or if there's something like at your heels, you don't do like a [\h__\h] squat, right? And squat for >> Right. You there's there's certain movement patterns that we develop as kids, etc., and they become ingrained. And bodybuilding is hacking around that to some degree. >> Yeah. by choosing exercises, by creating the mind muscle connection, blah blah blah, to create that to hack into that muscle and force it to grow in a way that otherwise wouldn't. Those weak muscles would stay weak and the relative proportion of size across a joint, the the agonist and antagonists of of knee extension, let's say, would be how they are because of your biomechanics and your neural neuroprogramming and and neuromechanical matching too. I think probably something that plays a role. That's a contentious topic, so I'll just leave that there. >> Okay. >> But um >> but anyway, so so yeah, there's um there is something to say for squeezing the muscle, I think, and there's some scientific evidence that suggest without as direct study doing that. We've got the count study. It's kind of like we've got we've got training, traditional training, heavy training where you're not worried about that and then you're lightening the load and maintaining continuous tension. We looked at those re that research. We've got blood flow restriction which which creates much more metabolic stress. This is what one of the reasons why people think metabolic or thought or think metabolic stress is associated creates a different activation strategy. Those type ones get loaded and activated in a different way. Um and then the gap would be training with the squeeze and then we have training with no load and only the squeeze. So we have a continuum of evidence that sort of points towards a type one fiber specific hypertrophic effect. Interestingly enough, they didn't measure different type fiber types in that count study, the no-load study, but but we have converging evidence points the direction that a great master's thesis for someone would be to train with the squeeze with and without the squeeze and maybe have a heavy condition and a light condition. Yeah, >> get Nick in on that study is one of your participants. >> Yeah, I think he uh I think he's already gonna get much growth from him. >> Um but but the thing too that I forgot to add another piece this would make a nice maybe I'll make this into a presentation sometime to give for folks because there's a lot of cool pieces of evidence here. But that mind muscle connection also goes away or the ability to evoke that goes away when you get to about 80% of a one rep max. >> Oh, okay. Yeah. So you can there's classic studies there a couple of them um you can tell people to do this bench press with a pec versus your triceps. >> Yeah. >> Right. And when they have low loads like 40 50 60% of what they can do that lift it with your triceps they do it more of a tricep oriented. >> So they can switch the muscle >> um that they're using. But when you get to 80% of whatever max they can't do that because it's so heavy they they don't have a choice. They have to bring in the other muscles. That's a great point to I think bring up and that's something where I'm seeing people have problems nowadays. I think that there are a lot of people that are hyperfocused on trying to isolate the target muscle and because of that they they aren't using the heavy loads that it can take to be able to get to, you know, 280 pounds. And I I've had that with clients where I see them saying like, well, I want to do this, you know, twisting one arm pull down >> and and I think there is benefit to that, you know, and they say, but if I do two arms at once, I can't feel it. I don't feel it anymore. >> Yeah. Is there still benefit to that exercise if you're not quote unquote feeling it the way you can feel it with lighter weight and optimal control and hard squeeze? >> You know, because I I think the answer has already been in our squeeze versus just do the reps study. I know that's not the name of the study, but that's what I'm going to call it for the sake of this conversation. >> Yeah. Um if someone is just they get a they it feels amazing with the one arm unilateral approach and the bilateral approach just feels horrible. Um then one option would be just to not do them that way. Right? The other other option would be is to um keep working on that mind muscle connection. The thing the thing that makes me hesitant to just sort of throw out the baby with the bath water so to speak and to stop doing bilateral exercises that have been really effective for many many people. I don't think anything was saying any I wasn't trying to say stop but you know even like like I I can say I've seen people who say like oh well I when I do stiff legs for instance if I you know go up above a certain weight it you know where I can't do this like really good control or squats you know it's like it just takes everything takes over. I think personally that there's benefit to overloading the body and also doing doing both basically. Do let's do both. You know, that's where I was going with this too. That's I was I was agreeing with you. I wasn't Yeah, I don't you don't want to throw those out because >> one you can you can learn how to do those maybe lighten the load slightly. >> Um >> there there can be I I really think let's say you're trying to make that a take that stiff-legged deadlift example. you're trying to make that a hamstring action and it becomes you just feel it in the glutes mainly. >> Okay. >> Um well then you're getting some you're getting some glute activation there. The way the partial um set the way partial sets are now counted up in the research is you might call that a half set for the glutes. >> So they all pressing movements become a half a set for triceps even if they're supposed to be a overhead sh. So there's some stimulus that gets added in there potentially. >> Yeah. >> And that's that's one thing like for instance with DC training in particular um that you can do is is let's say you want to bring your triceps up, right? So you might in particular do um make sure you don't have fli flies as your chest movements because you're focus you're maybe sacrifice a little for the chest but you use pressing movements so you get some tricep activation on your pressing movements for your shoulders and for your delts >> um >> because you're getting more more uh tricep involvement there. >> So the triceps are getting half sets maybe in those cases. So yeah, there's something safe for training the whole body. You're getting some some training stimulus to those other muscles. And interestingly enough, if those muscles seem like they're taking over, get them stronger. Um, so that those aren't loaded as much, it becomes relatively easier and then you can then it becomes a hamstring exercise again. >> Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. I And I remember Ron talking about this on an episode of It's Just Bodybuilding. him and the way he phrased it was people saying like well I don't feel that you know uh pendulum in where I want to feel it in my leg though you know or whatever I don't feel that hack squat let's say the hack squat because that's kind of more a front and back everything exercise I don't feel it in the quad and his thought was like you don't have to your body you're like like >> your body has the intelligence to use all of these muscles together and just because you're not feeling it in one specific spot doesn't mean that that spot isn't working. Like the whole everything's working in conjunction. You don't have to tell your body use the quad. And obviously we've talked about Yeah. there is benefit like on a bench press visualizing using the chest. But it whether you do or don't that chest is firing in the bench press. >> Yeah. And the thing too that um if you do a set of 20, you're going to feel it in those last 10 reps because you got more metabolic stress. You're gonna you're going to have a different mindless connection than if you do a set of eight on something. >> Yeah. >> You're not you're not going to get like, oh my god, like the muscle's on fire. It's, you know, feels like it's going to melt off my body because it's it's burning so badly. >> Yeah. Um, and when people are f hyperfocused on that, they might have be having good loading in the muscle and because they've got so much downward central drive which needs to be there to move the heavy loads, they're not as able to pick up on that afrant information that's coming back from the muscles. >> So that that happens with pain. For instance, this is called a a gating phenomenon. And I'm no expert so someone correct me if I'm wrong but um the idea is that pain signals afrant signals coming back to the brain um the gate is closed if you're sending descending information down. So the the the signal transduction coming back from muscle during exercise is is reduced when you've got a central drive. Um it's interfered with in a certain way according to this gating idea. There's ideas a gate would be closed. So that they might be they might be get activating that muscle and they just can't tell because they've got such a heavy load. They have so much descending drive. They're just not getting the same afrant information to let them know that it's being activated and they're not it's not going to feel the same because they're not going to have the the lactic acid and the other things that are going to give them the sense, okay, that muscle's going. >> Yeah. >> So, >> but two days the next day, you're definitely going to be sore. You know what I mean? >> Bingo. That that's the thing is like okay like I'm going to try this like give it a go you know and I'm gonna say ah I don't like the heavy stuff I can't feel the muscle blah blah blah like give it a go do your damnedest focus on mind muscle connection start the movement with the target muscle initiate the movement with that do everything you possibly can work on that mind muscle connection see what happens soreness-wise and then give it some time to grow >> with that and see if you start to see the improvements >> um Yeah. So, there's, you know, give it give it time. Don't just give up on it because you didn't didn't get, you know, an immediate sense in that set that it did what you wanted it to do. >> Yeah. I feel like people have been, you know, and I get it. It's kind of cool how like conscientious lifters are becoming and how self-aware they are. But I do think that it >> it can we can take it too far, you know, sometimes and and end up kind of missing, you know, some really heavy ass, you know, lightweight baby stuff that we really could have used, you know. >> Well, you know what? Um, I set up this is one of the things I kind of incorporated in a fortitude training intentionally >> is that you've got the loading sets, you got the muscle rounds, the pump sets. So, we just compare the loading and the pump. The pump is when you're really you're looking for that targeted mind muscle connection. You're creating the metabolic stress. You're doing things we kind of talked about here today. You want that you want to just sear the gains into the muscle, right? So to speak. Um, and it's isolated. You don't have social so much central drive involved. You're not going to you're not going to get done with those sets and be like, "Oh my god, I just want to lie on the on the Well, maybe you will with legs sometimes, but it's not the same central nervous system type of, "Holy [\h__\h] I feel like I just ran into a brick wallund 100 times in a row." >> Um, >> those are the those are the training sessions when you do that, right? and you and you cultivate your mind muscle connection and you check that box just like we talked about checking the box with the with the no relaxation training being type one fiber hypertrophic specific so to speak. Um and then when it comes to loading sets that's when you go to town and you make gravity your [\h__\h] >> Yeah. >> Right. And you move up the move the big weights the exercises that you know work for you and you do your best to have a good mind muscle connection. You do all those sorts of things, but you're not expecting necessarily get this great pump that's isolated just to the muscle you wanted to target, right? >> Those would tend to be more compound exercises anyway, just that, well, some of them are isolated, some are compound, but those are your big, you know, your your your big squats, deadlifts, >> incline presses, dips, those sorts of things. >> That you wouldn't do for the pump sets necessarily. So, so some people, I think, just psychologically say, "Okay, I got my pump sets. Those are in place. I'm doing that. I've got a good mind muscle connection checking that box. But I also know that if I get brutally strong on these exercises and I double my 50% increases in my strength on those over the next three years, it's going to show up in my physique >> because these are the right exercises for me. And I know this and mind muscle connection, whatever. I'm moving this weight. There's still an internal focus, right? You're not just like squatting and 3 in and just bending at the hip, right? You're you're still squatting with good execution. >> Sure. Sure. >> But you're you're not like the the efficacy of whether or not you had a good set or that workout was as good as you'd hoped it be is not going to be and how you felt the muscle work during those sets, per se. It's going to be whether you check the boxes in terms of execution, range of motion, blah blah blah. And the log book got its ass whooped. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> You know what's got so many times I think when people talk about science in fitness and bodybuilding, they use it as a weapon to say that this is what you must do or this is a terrible idea, you should never do this. You use science to say that it really all works. Like do it all. You you really do. you you say that you use science to say that like well sometimes this is great >> and sometimes the opposite is great. You know that's you I I think that that sometimes confuses our listeners because they want to walk away with that black and white answer that oh thank god Scott's here with science. He can tell us exactly the one thing that we should be doing and the other things that we shouldn't. >> But I'm walking away from this conversation hearing that you should definitely still do both. Squeeze the muscle. use good control and also use heavy weight that you may not feel the squee you may not be able to feel the squeeze in as much and you know rely on that natural intuition of the muscle you know what I mean that it it knows what to do when you're using it >> yeah I mean should's kind of a four-letter word even though there's more than four letters in it but another way you do this is is figure this is my big thing figure it out for yourself >> give it a go you know Try give yourself six months or a year where you you do the squeeze, right? Or you just do high rep stuff, right? Or the other way around, everything's six to eight reps. Even like isolation movements, you can you can do them that way, >> right? >> Um >> I think even if you only leaned into one, you would probably still get some sort of growth, right? You know what I mean? Like you might not it might not be the ultimate answer, but you'll be able to isolate it. kind of like if you're breaking down gear and you just try one compound at a time, you know what I mean? >> Yeah. Figure it out for you. Like the the study um Carneera study I mentioned with the post-menopausal women, like some of them that the the one of the takeaways from there is that high reps was probably a better approach for muscle size for some of those women and low reps was probably a better approach. And that could be a whole bunch of reasons could they don't pain ability to handle pain. They like to feel the pump. >> You know, it could be there's a number of different reasons. Could be purely what stimulates muscle growth in their muscles. >> Um question to our listeners, which menopausal woman are you? >> Yeah. >> Right. Um I mean it could be even something like you train higher reps and you're like, >> I'm just wrecked. I'm just going to go home and take a nap. And they don't eat for three hours. >> Yeah. Yeah, there's that, >> right? Um or they do the other way and they like, oh, this is great and like I think I'm g to grab some food or I just have to go right to the cafeteria or whatever. So, there's a number of different things, but you got to try those things out. The what I tried to do with fortitude training is try to check all the boxes um you know with a daily undulating periodization scheme where you're doing different set types um that are going to have potentially evoke fiber hypertrophy somewhat in a specific fashion, what have you. And then you just get good at all of those. >> And they coordinate with one another. But you can periodize, which has been done for years and just go with, you know, heavy and then light or light then heavy and say, "Okay, the heavy stuff, you know, does work for me." Or, um, go with reps and reserve, see if that works and try to do more volume. Um, that was another thing Nick was talking about. Nick's doing all, you know, to a degree reps in reserve now. And he said that he's loving it. Like it's it's >> been great for him. And when we talked about it on the podcast, the interview we just did with him recently, he had said that uh what did he say? He said that if he could go back, you know, because the big question is, well, Nick, that's not the way you grew this muscle. You know, what did it take to do that? And he said, hey, if I could go back, I would do that from the start. I don't feel as beat up, and I feel like I'm getting just as good of a, you know, overall activation, but he's a lot fresher feeling now dayto day. very much more recovered than he had been >> in the past. So I would say this too that if you do pick one or the other lightweight lighter weight with all squeezing that constant t and I love constant tension overall we constant tension principle 103. Um I I love that stuff. Um and I also love like really heavyweight and I love heavyweight with constant tension. There's a a balance in there, too, where if it's not working for you, if you did do extremely heavy stuff and you that stuff wrecks you. Well, maybe you can still do extremely heavy stuff, but maybe tailor it a little bit more so that you can listen to your body and not get absolutely wrecked from it, right? >> Yeah. Autoregulate. >> Yeah. I think too with Nick um then we talked about this was one of the previous podcasts here recently >> is that he trained to failure for so many years >> now his reps in reserve he can adequately judge that cuz he's >> different >> years and years um as opposed to someone who's a year and a half in and they're trying to do that and their their reps in reserve is actually they think they're two and they're actually seven. >> Yeah. um and they never really learn to push themselves. Um and there's I you know I always I I I still think we don't see this in the literature because people there's an internal governor but there's I think an inverted u dose response and Nick may have been training doing more and and feeling wrecked than was optimal for him at some point in time. >> He's still making progress but he was just wasn't making optimal progress. his progress could have been better or at least now for sure his progress would be nil or be minimal or less than it currently is as he's apparently seeing and he's optimizing because he trained so hard anyway by having more reps in reserve getting in more volume and he still creates he's you know obviously Nick's got pretty good genetics I think for bodybuilding he also dots every eye and crosses every tea I mean that's the thing that's really I think underestimated, under undervalued is that that guy is not missing a single beat. >> Yeah. >> As far as everything he does, everything he does is on. >> Um but that being said too, he has um his muscle personal muscle genetic code is such that resistance exercise creates hypertrophy. Like it just he puts that in, it's like gas to a fire, right? >> Yeah. Uh so it's going to happen and then someone else maybe who's less genetically gifted in that sense they may need to cultivate the signal with with more with more sets taken to failure in order to get a signal whatsoever. >> But then that means that they can't do as many sets because you can't recover from as many sets when you're training failure all the time. >> And that just means that they're going to be limited muscle growth which which you knew from the fact that they had to train the failure. There's so many top pros, like there's so many examples of guys that you can watch their training and you don't see a single video where they look like they're the bar is speed isn't slowing at all, >> right? >> And they're monsters. Some of that's peeds, but that just there's tons of guys that are natural that just look ridiculous and you're like, "This guy's juiced to the gills and they're not. They're just genetic phenoms." >> Yeah. >> Right. and they and they don't tr they're not in there, you know, training until they're throwing up and going crazy and, you know, training like absolute idiots because they add in the load and the training and it's reasonably hard and the muscle just grows. >> So, that's just that genetic gift. So that's that's I think we talked about this with um with uh Brandon Curry years ago, >> you know, is that the guys in the Middle East who can hang with that high volume protocol that everyone pretty much underwent were the ones that stuck around. If you didn't have those genetics, you couldn't do it. >> Yeah. So the guys who can do set after set after set after set and still get a stimulus from each of those sets even if they're one or two reps shy of reserve and then still recover from all of those sets. They've got at least two genetic components going for them. One, they don't have to go to absolute failure in order to create a stimulus for those sets. This is my this is my theory and my kind of the way I this is my perspective on things. Um, and then they can add together a lot of those sets and still recover from it, >> So, they're responsive to a stimulus that might not be responsive for some people. Might might not be a a stimulus that that creates new muscle growth because it wouldn't be those last few reps or reps in reserve that just doesn't work. Jordan, I mentioned Jordan in another podcast. Actually, there's a it's probably going to be a [\h__\h] storm here, but there was a story that got posted from a podcast I did. I saw the the clip. Really great clip, too. >> Yeah, he's putting together really good clips. Um >> tried. >> Yeah, go ahead. >> Yeah, he tried reps and reserve training. He had he had a um I think Steve Hall's podcast, Revive Stronger podcast, I think is where he had conversation with Mike Israel if I remember correctly. And and Mike was explaining the reps and reserve idea and how it works. And and Jordan's like, I I'll do whatever it takes. I'll give it a go. And he tried it and it didn't work out for him. And I think he did it exactly the way he he should have and the way he thought he he should have, >> right? >> He didn't like try to sneak in reps to set stability or whatever. >> He wanted to give it a fair shake. >> He gave it a fair shake and it didn't work for him, right? So, and and I would say Jordan's I mean I I would say Jordan and Nick's muscle mass is on a equivalent level. >> Sure, >> Jordan's not gonna beat Nick on stage, but Jordan's as highly muscular as pretty much anyone in the world. That's not the conversation, right? >> Yeah. Right. But Jordan was someone that he and based on that um that short journey into reps and reserve training didn't get the stimulus with all the parameters he had in place to allow him to continue to progress. He's someone because he doesn't have he has really good genetics but he doesn't maybe have the elite genetics that would put him in the top five on the Olympia stage where he can get away with so to speak or he can get an effective stimulus training with anything other than the way he trains which is all out balls to the wall. >> You know I'm gonna see God shake his hand and make him bow before me before I come back down to earth after the set. I'm glad to hear you say that because when I've tried to use him as an example on Blood, Sweat, and Gear, Skip and Andrew shut me down hard and say, "Well, Jordan is the absolute elite." And I I don't but I I think that it's kind of like Dusty. You know, Dusty said, "Hey, listen. The way I've trained my back is what I've had to do >> to grow my back." You know, I and and the response to that was, "Well, did he try the other way?" And well, Jordan did. He's a great example then of yeah maybe not being as elite as you know maybe somebody else there's there's levels of elite I guess >> and one other thing just this thought came to my mind that conversation we had with Brandon Curry was so enlightening I wonder if he'd be interested in coming on with us now and talking about how his training has changed I I I believe he's probably if he's doing the Masters Olympia I don't know if he is I months ago they were talking about that being a potential show that he might do. And I mean, God, if I'd take the check, you know what I'm saying? If he's if he's ready for it. But I'd be curious to talk to him now because it's been probably several five years, six years since we talked to him about that. I wonder how his training has changed, uh, you know, with a little bit more age because at that point, man, it was just take the governor off and do as many sets as you can and he's going to keep getting better. Is it still that way or has it evolved, you know? Mhm. Yeah. I think he's back in Tennessee. >> Yeah. >> Year round. >> Yep. >> So, he's not going overseas anymore. It's not with his coach that he had then. So, >> um >> Yeah. Okay. Well, well, I I don't I I actually met him. I talked to him. I went to his gym when I was in Tennessee. >> Oh, yeah. Okay. >> And worked out at He owns Maybe he owns a number of them now, but he had at least one location for his gym. >> Yeah, I know. He has the one Carbon Culture there. Yeah. >> Yeah. Carbon Culture. So maybe um maybe I could contact him and see. I don't he probably doesn't answer his Instagram because he's getting so much >> I'll reach out to him. He'll he'll probably back to me. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. But but this interesting like this kind of Nick and Jordan comparison, you know, there's there's no absolutes in terms of what is best going to produce muscle growth for for anyone, >> right? And I mentioned this was on that probably another clip will come out. The one did already from that other podcast. And that was one thing I thought about I mentioned in a message to you this morning is that if we look across the landscape of what creates muscle growth, we've got compensatory hypertrophy. We've got these stretch overload models with the quailes where they hang the weight off their wings. Um when we got a small sliver of potential stimuli that produce muscle growth is resistance exercise. And we've got high rep, we've got low rep, we've got continuous tension, we've got no worry about that. And there's there's so much more. Sometimes we miss the forest for the trees, so to speak. And that there's so many other things that can produce massive increases in muscle size that are very, very different. the features are very very different than resistance exercise >> where I mean you're you're spending like whatever the muscles under tension for 10 minutes maybe you know you do you do 15 sets and they're 45 seconds >> or what have you know it's it's not that much time really and other these other like the stretch overload model again that's birds not not mammals but um that's continuous all day long or the compensator they're walking around and but it's just walking but That's an overload of sorts. So if you think about those things being stimuli that do produce muscle growth, muscle fiber size and hyperplasia too. >> Um and then you think well it's no surprise. It's not if you look like this is the the broad scheme of things. If we narrow in on resistance exercise, we got someone who does more sets with less intensity or less intensity of effort >> like Nick with reps reserve and get seems to get better results. someone else is more towards to go to failure. Like those are so close together really. >> Yeah. Trees that grow right next to one another and it's like to say this tree is better than that tree. It's like no there's like look at the whole forest. Look there's trees that are all they're growing in all sorts of different kinds of soil. They've got different amount of sunlight, >> different amount of water coming through and they're all growing. They all they're all examples of muscle hypertrophy. There's trees that never lifted a weight in their life and they look better than some guys that have, you know. >> Yeah. There's no weightlifting models of muscle hypertrophy. And there's also um so so that if you think of it from that perspective, it's like yeah, I mean it's the tension that's the most important thing. >> And then I think progressive overload plays plays a role. But that's the that's the thing too is and you've mentioned this with execution on your chest pressing movements. That's that's the one example that we brought up is that a a way to create overload that wouldn't manifest as an outward progression of of weight would be to improve your execution, improve your mind muscle connection >> and have co-contractions or be activating that muscle with a mind muscle type of of way of doing this. So, it's producing force during those sets um that would wouldn't necessarily manifest in moving a heavier weight for more reps because you're doing like what they did in the count study where you're just flexing the muscle. So, that is a way that you could get better with a better mind muscle connection and figure out and then in that way have an overload that happens that isn't manifested in the log book per se. >> Yeah. Um but then I think this is where you know things kind of fit together in the grand scheme of is that if you do then um have hypertrophy that would manifest as a ability to lift a heavier weight for for more reps and you move to that mode of training where you're log book focused still with an internal focus on making sure you're activating the right muscles but you simply progress then the progre the overload that creates with that internal focus on squeezing the muscle etc. that is producing hypertrophy which eventually manifests when you go and test the performance capabilities of the muscle by training when you're counting your reps and you're microloing the bar and those sorts of things to see if you're actually getting stronger and your performance is improving the gym. So the two interact with one another um >> in some really kind of cool ways. So yeah, there's there's lots of ways to skin the cat. >> Well, we got through one question today. That's one topic. >> We had like five of them, but uh that means that we have a bunch more stuff then for next time, too. >> Yeah, for sure. This is fun, man. >> Guys, go to bybcoach.com to check out Scott's book, Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach. I just did an episode with Kuba about planning your year and it made me think about your book and he mentioned your book too and he pulled it out and he was like, "You guys need to get a copy of this." >> Oh, cool. >> But we we talked about setting up your gear if you've got, you know, say 45 weeks right now before the show. Uh you could do a whole lot of nothing with that or you could plan that out and uh and and set yourself up. You know, how many weeks are we going to let's work backward, you know, let how many weeks are we going to need to diet? How much time does this give us to grow? What kind of a health phase do we maybe need to drop in there in the middle? And how do we adjust our training? How do we adjust our nutrition? And how do we set expectations for ourselves? What can we reach? You know, and that reminds me a lot of a whole section of your book, Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach. Um, so I strongly suggest that all you guys check it out. And if you go to the link in the description, you can get it from Scott directly off eBay and he will sign it for you. Get the hard cover that way. Or you just get the uh Yeah. You going to say something? >> I think those might be sold out. I'll have to go and look. >> Oh, you might have sold those out. Okay. >> I think I might have. Yeah. I'm not sure. But yeah, so someone can't find them then maybe are sold out, but I think it's >> But you can still get the hard cover. If not, I'll put the link in then if that's the case. >> Absolutely. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Or you can of course get the ebook from bobbcoach.com. And that's also where you can go to get the fortitude training ebook for like 20 bucks, guys. It's literally nothing. And even if you're not ready to do it now, you can support Scott by buying the ebook. Save it, read it later. You know, it's it's fun to understand and learn different training principles and ideas. So, you can do that. And of course, uh supplements.ca CA for Canadians, truernutrition.com, code think for 10% off. If you're pumped up to do some training after listening to this episode, then you're going to need a lot more protein. Go to true nutrition.com to get that as well as your intra-workout, your creatine, and everything else. And uh, of course, Patreon. Thank you guys. Patreon, you guys are freaking awesome. We'll definitely get to some Patreon stuff here in the future. And for another episode here, Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNell. Guys, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Scott, as always. You're welcome, brother.