Basically with what you can do is give yourself almost a form of a forced repetition. So you start off the first reps are all easy. There's minimal tricep activity, right? And then the chest starts to fatigue somewhat. You still got a chest focus, right? There might be some tricep involvement that is progressively goes up. That would make sense, >> right? As the pec fatigues, then the tricep involvement would go up. Now I'm going to try to do several more reps. I'm going to allow myself to bring the other muscles in. So the chest is pre- fatigued and now the triceps and anterior delts can go and but I'm still focusing on the chest but now I'm just allowing okay I've just sort of released the governor on the triceps and the other muscles. And that basically is like bringing in a partner. I got my brain, you know, I got I see where you're going and I'm bringing in a partner and get doing force repetitions, >> right? >> Because now the tricep or the tricep and shoulder are helping you to get another rep up to allow you to then control that negative with the pec. >> Go beyond failure. Basically, it's beyond mind muscle connection failure. >> What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNell and all of our programming is brought to you by Scott's book bobbcoach.com. That's beyou own bodybuilding coach. We'll put a link in the description. Also, if you want to get the hard cover or you can go to the website and get the ebook. We are brought to you by uh you the people at Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. And we are brought to you by trueenutrition.com. Get all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein, creatin, intraworkout, all of that stuff. Use our code think to get 10% off on high quality thirdparty tested supplements. You'll get a deal. You support the shows and uh you'll get great supplements. We're also brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They do have great deals at change week to week on uh shortdated closeout products, stuff like that. Scott, I am freaking pumped to talk to you today, man. We had uh Stefan Kinsel, the boss of Outlaw uh on the show for uh It's Just Bodybuilding this week. And man, he echoed >> all the freaking things that I've been talking about for the last five years about uh bringing up >> I was Yeah, that's the way it feels, you know. It was cool to hear, especially somebody I you know, I have a huge amount of respect for him and the you know, the work that he's doing and with bodybuilders like just incredible man. Uh, and plus not only that, but he is like absolutely like freaking passionate about bodybuilding, which you know, he's a good dude. I like him. So, anyway though, >> we we were talking about the idea of bringing up legging body parts >> and he was saying that like like UR for instance that he gets really great contractions to the glutes and you know, no surprise gets these nasty striations. They're peeled earlier than other body parts. But then his back has lacked those same strayations. And it's not because he's not training his back often enough. You know what I mean? It's not because he wasn't doing the the right exercises. It had to do with activation. And you know, the first thing that I hear from people, they tell me like, well, what's the split? What split should I do? You know, and then the next thing is like, well, what exercises are like the exercise? And and it's beyond that, man. It's how are you activating the muscle? You know, you've heard me saying this, like that's my spiel now, you know. And uh it it was so rewarding to hear him saying those exact same things. Um so I guess the the topic is really what the the the connection you get to the muscle, the activation versus exercise selection. Is that how we would put that? >> Yeah. It's funny like I I just as you were talking um I was imagining like you go into a restaurant, you know, and you order a sandwich. It's like it's just not right. >> Right. And you so you hand it back and they just go put more of the same [\h__\h] on it that doesn't taste good. >> Yeah. >> It's still a [\h__\h] sandwich, right? You just keep doing more or keep, you know, eat more quickly. It still tastes bad. >> You keep doing the things that aren't right for muscle growth. in terms of exercise selection or having a good mind muscle connection, activating the muscle, learn, it's a skill set without a doubt. Learning how to activate the muscle, then you're just going to get more. You're going to like Ronnie say, keep doing what you've been doing to keep getting what you've been getting, right? >> And you won't end up growing. So, yeah, that's the um if the topic keeps on coming up. I've got a whole talk on it's called mind muscle mastery I've given and there like at one end of the spectrum we have the notion for instance of neuromechanical matching that certain muscles simply will only be activated when they have the appropriate leverage to do so at during the course of the range of motion of certain certain exercises. So don't even bother. Right. >> Okay. And if if and also then if you have a loading curve that doesn't match the strength curve of that muscle. This is this is like pretty important really. This is how you can tell my experience if a if a machine or an exercise matches uh or feels good. You can just tell that feels good. I just saw a video um came I just did a consulate on this yesterday and I saw a video um Roland Flitz did a video showing his chest training >> and he demonstrated uh how he does Sorry I'm sweating so much it's been hot as hell in the house here. How he does >> tells me he sets his what do you set your AC to? 80. Did you What did you say? >> It was 82. Yeah, I said it 82. Yeah. >> I I leave the door that was I The door is right here. I leave the door open for the dogs to come in and out, you know, and that was part of it. And yeah, I don't want to try to cool it. AC would totally get over uh overheated, but so he does his his and people can find this video. It's all in German, but it's on um uh on his sponsor's channel. And he does he doesn't do a full he doesn't come to the center on his chest presses. He stays out and he stays out wide. Literally, he's almost pressing outwardly like this. >> Huh. Okay. >> Because that that maintains tension. Just to keep it simple here without getting to the biomechanical weeds maintain tension on the pecs. Once you get to here >> and you're and you're just you can there's nothing you can literally you're just holding you've got a lot of the force is just compressing your your uh um elbow joint assuming you have a rotator cuff that's doing what it's supposed to do. You you're holding your shoulder joint in place but you don't have pec tension when you go out here you do. So, >> okay, >> instead of doing full range of motion like this and going to a lockout, Roman's been training for a hot minute here. He he knows how to he knows from feel what a full rep is given how he's executing this style of doing um dumbbell incline presses that he just goes to here and he goes and he does them like that and he stays out very very wide. >> Okay. >> Yeah, I did that years and years and years ago too. you don't. He was using the the 30 kg dumbbells. So, he's like using like eventually he went up. He's around 70 lbs. He could use a lot more weight than that if he did this and he and he's tried to bring the triceps in. But the idea is that he's he's making this it's sort of like a >> um a combination between a a partial range of motion fly partial range of motion chest press. >> Yeah. I'm gonna try this by the way. Oh, yeah. Certainly. Yeah. Try this. >> Yeah. Um, so yeah, I mean if you have limited limited equipment like he's he has a pec fly that gives you tension through the full range of motion and and allows you to contract the pecs here in this shortened position and have the have the tension. See in this case the tension the force vector is this way. So you're you're doing horizontal roughly horizontal adduction at the shoulder joint um at sort of a sort of an off plane. So, you do those exercises, but why why waste the range of motion? Um, and not the full range of motion isn't a good idea, but if you have no attention to do that last part of the range of motion, then that's that doesn't not worth it. And people use do machines that way. He started off doing uh he has a a hammer strength um leverage incline press and he wasn't going to lock out because >> okay, >> to get to full lockout, he just has to engage so much triceps, >> right? and then you make triceps into potentially a weak link. It's no longer a chest exercise. So he was doing that according to the mechanics of the muscle and and the activation based on the loads presented by that particular exercise through the range of motion. So just to kind of reiterate, we've got this idea of neuromechanical matching that you don't have any choice in the matter as to how a muscle is activated through the course of range of motion and then you can selectively execute your exercises or choose exercises or find the right machines that provide a loading curve that matches your strength curve over the range of motion. So we talked about this um with having a converging chest press. These converging chest presses, they allow you to get full range of motion >> at the pec. So, because you converge, if you just went here, then you'd be missing this part of the range of motion, right? Okay. >> And the really good ones sometimes are set up on a cam or they're constructed such that it matches your strength curve here and doesn't get super hard at the end where you have to start engaging your triceps. >> Yeah. >> Right. In order to finish that, it allows you to have a good mind muscle connection. dried with the PEX so far and get a full range of motion with the PEX where you have contraction with the PEX and the exercise is executed predominantly with the PEX as the prime mover. That's that totally makes sense, right? >> Um and that's ideally what you'd have. So, so those are biomechanical considerations. And then what we also talked about, and this was in the podcast with Nick Walker, I think I've got an Instagram post I'm sort of formulating still, but we we we move across um into the more the mind muscle connection realm of things and you can actually have some choice. These are voluntary contractions. Um and this a learned skill. So I'll tell a story I've told told before. Uh long time ago, this was like this it was a memory because it it was it we spent like a half an hour with this. I had a guy who wanted his dad had been doing construction his entire life. He'd retired and he was just kind of sitting around. I think you probably remember this story. Brought him in. We're going to train biceps. We're doing train back and biceps that day. And I could just tell he's just like he's he's basically doing kind of like, you know, a sort of a some sort of a clean to get the weight up. He wasn't able he wasn't really doing biceps curls, right? using everything his blow back the whole thing. >> So, let's do a concentration curl, dumbbell concentration curl. Locked his elbow in on the inner side of his of his leg and said, "Hey, let's do this concentration curl." And he's still doing this stuff, right? He's he's basically he knows because he's picked up heavy stuff for his entire life, how to make it as easy as possible. So, he's basically trying to do an isomemmetric contraction of the bicep at the angle where he's got the most strength and then just leverage the thing up like, you know, like he's like he's using some equipment that, you know, a a forklift or what have you. Um, that was and he could not get himself to not do that. I literally was grabbing his shoulder and saying, "Stop moving your shoulder. Don't do this." I was nicer than that, of course, but he just kept on doing this. I said, "Don't move that." And I said, remember pretend like you're a robot, right? Alternatively, once you get good and you you do this, people have been most of the people who are listening already know how to do this. You can activate a muscle um even during an exercise where it's not the perfect loading curve. It's not biomechanically ideal. you can activate a muscle in range of motion um and cause a contraction that produces tension which would be our our driving phenomenon for stimulating hypertrophy even though the loading curve isn't that great. So, you know, do we would you want to take like that incin dumbbell press that that Roman had and then do a pec contraction and do this? You you could. Is that ideal? No. But we do know from at least one study where they did no load training. This is the counts at all study from 2016 >> that we just talked about right in episode. >> This is the far end now. >> Pure mind muscle connection. No load at all. Like basically if you're thinking about like let's get the exercise that provides the perfect resistance curve through the range of motion and then let's make let's let's make an exercise that is just absolutely horrendous such that it it completely misses the mark. Let's make it so bad that it provides absolutely no load throughout the entire range of motion. Zippo. That's what they did. >> Okay. >> No load. The loading curve was just non-existent. But >> contractions against air, they produced growth, muscle growth in the short term, untrained subjects. That was equivalent to a traditional um three sets of 10 type of program just contracting the muscle. Of course, there were co- contractions the triceps because you can't contract the biceps and not have elbow flexion unless the triceps um resist that across the elbow joint. So, they didn't get they didn't get get growth in the triceps. It turned out the control group lost tricep size. So, something weird was going on there. There's no reason that should happen. >> Um, but they they were thinking they might actually get growth in the triceps, too. >> Triceps produces a little more torque about the elbow. So, it wasn't that it they were doing maximal effort, I think, for like 30 seconds, something like that each set. I mean, that's like that's like the end of a DC training set where you do the pulse negatives or partials. 30 seconds is pretty close to all out. Those sets were like that. That was it was actually effective time under tension. It was maximal effort throughout the full range of motion. >> Okay? >> And they could do that because the triceps allowed it allowed that torque to be produced around the elbow joint while they maximally contracted their biceps. So, if you think about the fact that you can you can at least with the biceps, biceps is an easy one. Getting around to the point here with with now back is just always been for so many people the hardest muscle to connect with. >> You can't see it. It's hard to feel it. >> Um, we're kind of hardwired to first pull and move things to ourselves with our arms. >> Our back is there. It's funny. Um, what was his name? Uh, you look at you look sometimes at the backs of powerlifters who are just brutally strong on a deadlift. I mean, Johnny Jackson is someone for instance, you know, and this is this is anecdotal evidence, but some of the best backs, you look at that guy and you said that guy can deadlift a freaking house. >> Yeah, >> you absolutely know he can. Deadlifts on paper have horrible range of motion for the lats, right? And there's not an intent unless you you can do them this way, of course. You can do partial rack deads and, you know, squeeze the top and and lots of bodybuilders do that. There's absolutely nothing wrong with that. But really strong deadlifters work their way up to really heavy heavy loads and they're they're not even doing the high rep. High rep deadlifts will just faking destroy your lats. mentioned that topic. I've talked before, but some of those guys >> train the lats because everything gets activated doing a deadlift in that way because they're training so hard and there's so much effort, right? And they're not even intending to have a mind muscle connection. I don't know if does deadlifts or does rack deadads. Um, it would be interesting to see, but those guys get activation because the exercise forces it to happen even though it's not intentionally a lat a lat exercise. Um, so it's funny that those guys without trying to get big backs end up getting big backs. I mean, they want big back extension strength, etc., etc., but it comes along for the ride. And you have guys who are trying to train the the lats who don't have a good mind muscle connection. which I guess is the case with Urus according to Stefan um Kinsu uh and he just needs to figure that out some way shape or form and it's funny I I mean obviously they probably have had in fact I've seen a video is several years old I've seen a video of of Stefan running Uris through a a back training session >> yeah and he he said that you know over time he has developed that like he's got it now >> but that yeah that's the thing that when they get together. He he mentioned that on the podcast that they trained back together to keep, you know, ingraining that. And the way that I've looked at it, Scott, is that it's like if if we've done like your guy that was a construction worker and he's lifted up, you know, how many heavy things in his life? Like we can't even count him, right? Or we take somebody who's done a pull down and never grown their lats from that pull down, but they've been training for a long time. I was that guy. I can't even count how many reps I did. But we can say thousands, you know, the hundreds of sets in thousands and thousands of reps. It's like if we were walking through the woods, I would have worn a path through that woods. And every time that we walk in the woods, guess what I'm going to do? I'm going to go to the path because that's what I do. It's just the easiest way to get from point A to point B. But I think what we're talking about to like to retrain that it's like creating and and I I'm not saying this from a scientific point of view, but I imagine that we're creating like a new neural pathway in our brain to do something different than we always have. And as a result, it's going to be the equivalent of not walking on that path, but instead taking like we have to move sticks out of the way and the grass is long. But if we do it next week, it'll be a little bit easier and the next week it'll be a little or next workout, you know, we it'll be a little bit easier and eventually we'll wear that new path in. You know what I'm saying? And that's what I think that UR has done now is worn that new path in. But you know, it's it's a matter of time is what it comes down to. you know, >> yeah, there's a saying in neuroscience, so it's sort of a lay person saying, but the neurons that fire together wire together. >> Okay. >> So, that's how neural pathways develop. Um, and they're the things that they those are the that's basically how like our our perceptions, our misconceptions of reality come into being. We're used to seeing certain things, perceiving certain things, and we then we create stereotypes and we have common perceptions. So from a developmental perspective, we talked numeral times now about your calves, right? You just tended to walk for whatever reason on your calves and now your calves are so they developed in that way. But also neurologically um they're really that you just are just use them on pressing movements use you stand up on them when you're doing side laterals all these sorts of things. >> I shrugs yesterday I'm doing shrugs and I could feel myself going up on my toes. Yeah. you know, right? You have all all this this um neural outflow and it it's it's spillover basically is the term that's used sometimes and you've got so much drive to try to lift the weight up that your calves get activated like the the neuropathways say, "Oh, we're going up. Let's activate the calves so we can get higher." Right? It just happens automatically. on the other other side. Um if someone for whatever reason you know not to go down this pathway but like sometimes there's like some ideas in um uh in neuroscience in the psychological realm that uh there will be in the body you will have you will manifest someone's psychological tendency to take things in and accept things or push things away based on their their their childhood and their family of origin. So if you see someone I know someone who would maybe at one point looked at this these pieces to try to understand someone's psychological makeup. If you see someone who's got a lot of really strong triceps naturally or well-developed they are used to pushing things away. And you can imagine the kids who are like get away from me push away like pushing the world away from them. That's that's extension types of things right. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So I'm not trying to do a archer psycho analysis of but the way in which probably biomechanically your your best advantage or the things that you do growing up like who knows I say this now my lats like most muscles have have been torn but back was always a strength for me and I was a swimmer >> right chest was always a weakness for me. We didn't hardly ever we did push-ups like once in a blue moon with swimming, but I didn't didn't do any until I started training. But I started swimming at a very young age. Lots of lat exercises. I always connect easily with the lats. For me, wasn't a problem. I grew up and training those motor pathways. There's a neuroplasticity um that is available. You see this with like language learning. Of course, kids don't even have to. You you you take a 5-year-old and plop them into a new culture with a new language, and they're they're up to speed in a year. >> With the six-year-olds, >> you take, you know, a 45year-old, plop them into that culture, they never get up to speed with a native speaker. They never quite get there. Many times is, they just don't even even start. >> That's a a function. It's various things, but part of its neuroplasticity. It's harder to learn things the older you get. So what I imagine Stefan and Urus are trying to overcome there to some degree is the fact that Urus has maybe been training his back using his arms and his posterior delta Miss Terry's major instead of using his lats and now they're rewiring those things. So that involves both act learning how to activate the lats better as well as deactivate the other muscles that he's used to pulling with. >> Yeah. >> Right. And that was another point he made too is that those other muscles are going to want to and you feel that those other muscles want to take over and let the weak muscle continue staying weak, you know. >> Yeah. There's a um Nico, I can't remember his last. It's a young upand cominging German bodybuilder and they there's a video of him training back. I wish I could remember his last name. The German listeners will know what I'm talking about probably. >> Yeah. Comment guys, comment for us. Let us know who he's talking about. and and they're showing he doesn't have good uh shoulder girdle flexibility, but there's a video of him training back and his delts are faking gigantic >> and he's trying to do a lat pull down and they're trying to teach him how to use his back and he's just he's just going like this. He's like going like that and like and like literally like this. You can tell cuz he can't do that. He just can't get there. and he pulls with his posterior delts and he's so strong when they I can't remember the numbers like he's he's doing the stack like this >> he's a beast but when they actually got him to engage his lats and try to turn out turn off his posture he's using like >> 30 lbs or like three plates something like that right so maybe 60 lb 66 pounds >> yeah and the same can be true in our pressing with those shoulders right like how many people start out with you they they the first big body part that pops out for them is those delts, but then the chest is still concave, you know, that's I think like a >> a super common like early level of development look that you see in people, you know. >> Yeah. So all those things kind of need to be rewired and you can do that. There's there's actually um a study where they were able to ask people to turn for instance it's not quite the same but turn off the traps and doing a side lateral type of movement and just use the delts and people can do that if you ask them to. And there's two studies that I've talked about several times where they have people doing um bench pressing and they look at EMG across loads up to about 80% of a one rep max and they can selectively push more and activate the triceps versus the pecs >> up until you get really heavy. When you get to 80% then you have to start activating both those muscles. It's it's probably difficult neurologically to activate one or the other. Also, the weight's so heavy, you have to kind of call in all the muscles that are available because it's based on a one rep max where you're using everything you could activate. So, you're just converging on on a combined strategy of activating both pecs and triceps. But at lighter loads, and this is maybe what Stefan's doing with Urus, >> um you you can have preferential activation of the triceps, for instance, versus the pecs. The musculature is a little more complex in the back versus the posterior delta. Haven't seen a a study where they looked at posterior delt. Um, no, that was that didn't really that yeah, that was just kind of a bizarre study. I don't even want to bring that one into play. Um, but the if you got more posterior delt or tries or whatever activation and you're not pulling with the lats, you're going to have to learn how to deactivate those. And you can do that. It's totally doable. Touch training like that can work for some people like touch. I mean, I was doing this to myself the other day. Um, since my hip surgery, there's I still have numbness on my lateral quad on both sides. Um, that's a side effect that supposedly usually goes away in a year, but it's still there for me. And my vasis lateralis um is uh is not is it's specifically selectively atrophying. It's getting smaller. I'm still training legs, >> but I can just see that yeah, the overall shape >> amongst all the tears is is morphing as the lateralis gets even smaller. >> Um, but what I do when I do my uh occlusion stretches, so I get pull one ankle back and I'm I'm stretching the quad, extending my hip out, so I'm getting the rectus for a stretch and then I contract the quad. Um, and this is how occlusion stretches happen in fortitude training. um you do like an occlusion stretch for your lat. You grab something at the angle which you want where you can then pull the lat into a stretch and contract it and you can contract it where you want to in a stretch position. Right? So, um, you know, I could I could have a a a solid something like a bar on a frame of a machine or something like that and I could pull and I could see I'm going to try to make this um a middle back effort for me or I could make it more of a low back effort and I probably would grab higher and do that. >> When I was doing my quad stretch, for instance, I'm intentionally trying to activate the lateralis. And what I was doing, this was just yesterday. I'm in that stretch position and I was tapping um on the muscle and there's like a a study with with cats. There's reflex arcs that that come back because obviously I can tell where I'm pressing although it is still numb. I can tell where I'm pressing. There's sensory arcs that then feed back um potentially this is sort of really sort of secondary evidence but potentially to the the motor neurons that then feed the muscle underlying the skin. So there's some neurosircuitry that you can tap into and of course you're actually pressing on the muscle too when you're doing that. So this is basically just simply bio feedback. >> Yeah. >> So that's something that can be done in this scenario where you got a muscle that just doesn't want to fire, right? is tap on that say wake that sucker up and provide some bio feedback. This is where you need to be feeling this and that can help people then to activate the muscle in question. So this is there's so many trainers you see doing >> especially men on women who get in they're like touching everything like this is this is a license to go poking people where you inappropriately. >> Let's get those glutes firing. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. It doesn't have to be a whole hand grasp. We're just talking, you know, a couple fingers here, you know, get the upper glutes, you know, and and, you know, be uh be professional about how you do it. >> Guys, let's talk about intraworkout carbs and saving money. So, like the past 10-15 years, intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance in those long workouts. Here's the thing, it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. they really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branched cyclic dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 grams per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched cyclic ddextrin. We can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code think, get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. But um so yeah, so that's we have that spectrum. We have like the the notion that you have no choice in the matter. the muscle will just be activated based on the the neuromechanical matching principle and biomechanics and there is certainly something to that. But I think if you take people in the wild who are untrained and say hey do this exercise and and and just try to do it there obviously there has to be some I mean it's not just random which muscles that cross that joint get activated it's a function of their moment arms and of course of their physiological cross-sectional area. So what they're relative I mean one one thing interestingly enough is we there's there's there's much more than just the biomechanics to this. We have the relative size of the muscle. the physiological cross-sectional area. If you got a really big muscle and a really small muscle, um, you know, you may say, well, the smarter move is to use the really big muscle, unless maybe that really small muscle at lower and typically at those lower force levels, the day-to-day activity, that really small muscle has lots of type one fibers in it. It's very enduranceoriented. So maybe during day-to-day walking or just going upstairs and those sorts of things that those fibers or that muscle that extends the hip. I'm being I'm speaking just theoretically here thinking of a strategy like the normal strategy might be to use the smaller muscle. Actually, interestingly enough, in rats, I this doesn't I've never seen this in humans, but in rats, in the calf, there's there's a section of the gastro nemius, the big calf muscle you have, right, that is red. And then there's another section that's white. And you can see you can separate those two. And they're often they in the older studies at least, they've been often um used or analyzed separately. White gastro and red gastro. Red is enduranceoriented. It's got more myoglobin and capillaries, more mitochondria. type one fibers and the white is the opposite. And literally at low intensity efforts like running slow running on a treadmill you will you the red gastro gets used first >> and then the only when you speed up and sprint does the white gastro. So literally a singular muscle has in this case kind of a low gear and a high gear >> based on speed and effort. So the that the relative fiber composition of different muscles crossing a joint plays a role too because we've got henman size principle. It's going to call on motor units based on the effort level that's required to balance all the joints forces across the joint. And as things get effort more effortful of course across the course of a set you're going to you're going to have a strategy that allows you to continue to do those repetitions. So for instance, now pulling this back to like >> let's say he uses his posterior delts instead of his lats. I don't know. He's past that now, but in the past, right? That's just how he did it. >> Or his all the other muscles other than the lats. >> Well, he starts doing this this exercise and he's like first few reps he's good. He's got a good mind muscle connection, >> right? >> The efforts levels are low. And then when the set starts to get harder, his brain just says naturally, this is this is a smart strategy to continue to do repetitions, other muscles need to be called into play. >> Right. >> Right. So those other muscles that aren't the lat that are probably already because he's been using them for so many years in the course of his lifetime and in training up to that point, those muscles are better equipped to move those loads because they're larger and they're better trained. So the mind muscle connection gets lost when the efforts get high. >> Yeah. >> And that's the hard part when you get into that crucible and those last few reps. And I I think I heard from the quote from Stefan, he was talking about that's you talk about what is intensity in training. Intensity of effort. It's in those final moments of a set where the effort is getting to maximal where you're trying to maintain the mind muscle connection on the muscle you're trying to target. And that's what good exercises, good machines will allow you to do. you don't have to try to turn off the muscles that your body and your brain in particular is trying to to bring into the movement. Um the exercise just allows you to do that because it doesn't have a bizarre resistance curve or what have you. Um but touch training will help with that and that's where you really like have to be focused at at the beginning it's easy when the reps are easy or with lighter load no problem. But at the end there when like your body's just it's like this what happens when people start to squat. they they're squatting nice and deep and they're upright and then all of a sudden they start leaning, you know, and they start cutting short shortening the range of motion, right? Yeah. Body >> and that's what he had said. >> I think the term was like that that's that intensity is what is truly exhausting. Like if to be able to you use that target muscle all the way through until you've exhausted that like >> you can only do so much of that. And and then he went on further to say like so I mean realistically if that's what you're doing how can you do that more than a couple sets >> you know and and it makes sense. >> It makes sense that like you can only do that so many times before it's like man I'm done with this and you just know I because I guess that's kind of a different topic Scott but you know I almost feel like >> you know how do you get that volume down? That's a question that I think people come to us about is like, well, if I'm doing four sets, how do I do less volume? How do I know that it's enough? You know, and the best way I can say is like you just, you know, like I've done two sets and I know like am I going to be able to get a third set that's going to be like of the quality of these last two, man. No, I'm I'm shot. Like there's no more out of this. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You'll see your reps drop, especially if you're going to fail, you see your reps drop off. And then if you're true to yourself and you say, "Okay, I'm going to try a third set." And you know, I got 12 reps before. I'm going to hopefully I'll get 10. And you get to like six and you're like, "Okay, you're doing all sorts of stuff. You're squirming around. You don't have that. You can't you don't you just lost your focus. You just know it's not there. >> That tells you you're right there. >> Okay, time for something else. >> You just you can if you're honest like I lost my focus. Lost my train of You know when you lose your train of thought, right? >> Because you you just can't think of the next thing to say. it's just not there. All right? You know, if you're honest, you know when you've shifted, your mind muscle connection has been lost and you're just trying to beat the log book, right? We're just trying to get the reps. >> Um I I still think to some degree, as long as you're not going to injure yourself in terms of training effort, people can go too far, right? It can also be like, oh, they they don't overload their um uh overload the the psychological aspect of learning how to be effortful and intense and disciplined during those sets. So, they do the set and this is where, you know, reps and reserve, you know, can be poorly estimated. It's like it's like, ah, I'm starting. I'm done. That's it. I'm not gonna like I'm not gonna not going to have to shift it into the next psychological gear to stay laser focused on the target muscle I'm trying to hit. Um and people just will just stop. So sometimes in order to you you there is a whole other realm of effort when you do go past perfect form, perfect mind muscle connection, you learn how to weather the metabolic storm, so to speak of, you know, especially high rep stuff or large muscle group stuff where you like, you know, you feel like your head's going to explode or you're about to die or you end up having to lie on the ground for two minutes afterwards or you throw up. There's something that can be gained from pushing there. And sometimes the reps do get a little sloppy. Not that you're trying to do sloppy reps. In an ideal sense, you're able to have just as much effort with the perfect form at the same time, but in root sometimes you need to do um uh you know call it over speed training. You know, that's one thing. Sometimes I don't know if they do this with sprinters like people sprinters will try to run downhill where they can have faster leg turnover because leg turnover obviously plays a role, you know. So like but their their form's a little bit they're not it's not the same. You don't run 100 meter dashes on a down slope, right? >> But they have faster leg turnover. I don't even know if this is even used. I'm just using this as analogy. So >> Oh, okay. It sounded like a thing. Like I was told >> it has been a thing. I don't know if that's the current state of the science of how people do um sprint training anymore. >> Okay. >> Right. They also also get parach parachutes, you know, that will, you know, that slow you down. So you have to work on your leg drive. There's all sorts of things. But the idea would be then if you really learn how to just push hard in general despite the fact that your mind muscle connection you know might not be perfect there's something to be gain there in terms of of mental resilience. Um as long as you remember that the idea is to hit the target muscle not to just drive unless you just want to drive yourself into oblivion and just destroy yourself. Some people that's kind of why they go into the gym is for the therapeutic side so to speak >> and they don't care so much about it >> but for And for a weak muscle group, I think it yeah, it it makes sense. Like if you let's say quads are your weak muscle group and you're using squats, you know, and you've just doing sloppy heavy ass partial range of motion squats and you've been doing it for years and you're not going anywhere. Your quads aren't increasing. Got to probably try. You've you've you're training yourself into absolute oblivion. You're throwing up after squat workouts. you're using just massive poundages, but you don't have the right exercise. You don't have the right mind muscle connection when with this approach to target your quads. >> Then that's an extreme example of kind of pissing in the wind. That would be a case where someone could go, okay, that's not working for me. Let's go to the other side. Try to find choose exercises where I can't pull my lower back into it. I'm going to do some compound exercises. Maybe I maybe I get on a hip sled or I start doing unilateral stuff or what have you and then focus on the mind muscle connection. Focus on full range of motion. Find the right loading curve for the exercise you choose, etc. Um, but anyway, my point was uh don't take it too far and just like say if I had the slightest inkling of a thought that maybe I'm losing my mind muscle connection, oh, the set's done. It's like, no, that's the effort part where you have to sort of overcome that that that little um sorry, in German the word is hint, that little piglet in the back of your mind that's says, "Oh, just give up, buddy. Just stop it." >> Yeah. >> And I think that's maybe kind of part of the fear of anybody who would be against the idea of really trying to focus on that target muscle because it would be so easy for somebody to say like, "Oh, I lost the connection. and I'm done, >> you know, and they just they they don't they don't fight for it. >> I I I'll take it a step further, too, though, Scott. I remember something I learned from Big Dave Smith in the chest press was, you know, one of my issues with that movement was not going deep enough. And and at a certain depth, you know, as those elbows get low enough, I'm no longer able to recruit the triceps and the shoulders the way I can when everything's kind of pushed further up. So he his thought to me was that you want to activate the or begin the exercise with that target muscle >> knowing that the shoulders, the triceps are going to get recruited as you are pushing up. And from there you can kind of like >> not build momentum but kind of add add drive into it, control drive into it as everything does get into that stronger, less vulnerable position. Um but also so his thought was like well you are doing a compound movement so you are going to use the shoulders and the triceps and the chest press even if you're trying to target the t the chest but if you focus on that target muscle first activate that target muscle first and that's what I then then you know there's an element of >> like being able to have what's the word I'm looking for like having faith then you know what I mean that that my body is going to do what I need it to do, >> I guess. And and I kind of applied that to my back training as well with that lat pull down because I can't just only isolate the perfectly isolate just the lat, >> but I can try to focus on the lat, you know, but at the end of the day, everything else is going to get worked too. I guess >> there's there's this there's an art and a science to it, I think, right? Okay. and initiating the the the the uh movement with the target muscle like Dave had said and like you just said. >> Absolutely. And can continue to do that. Like if you if you paralyzed your triceps, right, and and you tried to do a chest press like that, you just drop the dumbbells on your head. It wouldn't be they fall way out or like >> Yeah. I mean, you have to it has to been some it has to be some arm engagement, right? To some degree. >> Yeah. Um, but also throughout the movement too. And this is this is sort of the a next level to having like the appropriate mind muscle connection throughout the movement is you're doing the chest press. Your focus is still on the chest. It's still pecs. I mean, this is why why Roman's way of doing things is really kind of brilliant because you just um you just avoid the range of motion where it could get iffy. the range of motion isn't as what was brought up in Max Matson brought this up in a reaction video is like some people are going to end up they're going to doing reps like this, right? And they're going to call those reps because it's just too short. Roman is is is honest. He's been doing this. He's not going to short. He's going to get full range of motion and he'll push >> through to that same range of motion like a machine, like a piston. Same rep. First rep looks like the last rep. But there is something to say basically with what you can do is give yourself almost a form of a forced repetition. So you start off the first reps are all easy. There's minimal tricep activity, right? And then the chest starts to fatigue somewhat. You still got a chest focus, right? There might be some tricep involvement that is progressively goes up. That would make sense, >> right? As the pec fatigues, then the tricep involvement would go up and you could eventually get to the point where now it becomes more of a tricep movement because the chest is so so fatigued. >> So this is the art is >> is as you continue towards failure, you get to this point where it's like, okay, I'm no longer doing these repetitions with my chest. This is becoming a tricep press, >> right? And the ability to do that actually is is amplified if you've done a good job of leaving the triceps out during the first part of the set because now they're fresh. Right. Yeah. >> So now now you you you could and and I'll tell you a strategy something I do just to shorten training times this sort of things. I do this a lot. It's kind of people could try this at home just for shits and grins. I will do sets where I do a perfect mind muscle connection. I'm I'm training. This is all in internal focus, right? And then I end the set there. And then I say, now I'm going to mechanically it seems the same. Now I'm going to allow myself I will transition. If you're log booking, that would be the end of the set. I got 11 reps or whatever, right? >> Yeah. >> Now I'll transition. Now I'm going to try to do several more reps. I'm going to allow myself to bring the other muscles in. So the chest is pre- fatigued and now the triceps and anterior dels can go. And now I'll I I can get maybe half as many reps sometimes when I do that. Depends on the exercise in the day and how far I'm in the workout, right? >> Um >> and but I'm still focusing on the chest, but now I'm just allowing, okay, I've just sort of released the governor on the triceps and the other muscles. >> And that basically is like bringing in a partner. >> I got my brain, you know, I got I see where you're going. >> And I'm bringing in a partner and get doing force repetitions, >> right? Because now the tricep or the tricep and shoulder are helping you to get another rep up to allow you to then control that negative with the pec. >> Go beyond failure. Basically, it's beyond mind muscle connection failure. >> Dude, no, that is 100% what we do. And I hadn't I had never put it into that context before. But you are so absolutely right that that is the key to taking that intensity in that target muscle to the next level. It really is, man. >> I love that. And and I think that's a like for someone to do that like um because some people like we're pretty obsessive as bodybuilders like I want to make sure I got everything out of that set is just say okay here's what we're going to do. I'm going to do a perfect set with the my muscle connection until I start to feel like I'm not doing that and I'm and I and I've reached that internal sense that this is now becoming something that's only going to continue if I start bringing in the accessory muscles, auxiliary muscles in a way that doesn't really target the muscle I'm trying to hit. >> Right? >> But now I'm going to do the four streps and then you just bang them out. And so then you get to scratch that itch afterwards and you do get some effective time under tension I think in the target muscle because it still has to be involved. >> Absolutely. Absolutely. So, um, but then but then I think in doing that, if someone were to do that regularly, and I and I'd been doing this for years this way, just sort of to kind of keep myself in check, right? To see, okay, what's the difference when I'm just with an external focus, just doing the exercise and just bringing everything in like a powerlifter would versus with an internal focus. And there is a study from Brad Shfeld where they where they had better muscle growth with an internal focus. cuz I think it was with the biceps again versus just trying to move the weight through the range of motions versus trying to focus internally on getting a good biceps contraction. >> Yeah. >> And then I can see that stark difference, right? Because I do it one way. I trust myself to go to failure in that sense and then I then I just release the governors on the other muscles and say, "Okay, wow." And you see the stark contrast because literally I mean you think, "Well, you were just sandbagging like at that failure point." No, I was just doing this very differently. It was a very different type of internal focus, type of execution neurologically. And then I I just went to an external focus and allowed the other muscles to come into play and you get forced reps with that target muscle in a sense. >> I I do that on um the end of a workout if I wanted to do more with my, you know, training in my home gym. I've got a bunch of great stuff, but it it is limited to a degree. And I I was telling Skip and Andrew about this exercise not too long ago, but I you've made me realize a kind of a step further. I'm almost doing kind of like like force reps by doing these controlled negatives. I'll put the shoulder saver pad on my straight bar on an incline. And I I did this first with Shelby years back and it would be at the end of the chest workout where then drive it up hard, hard lock out at the top and then a slow controlled pec, you know, all pec focus negative back down to the chest. Dead stop it on the chest. >> Drive it up hard all the way up to the top and then slow controlled four like 4 second negative down to the chest. Dead stop. >> And it is it's it's an everything push up and then it's a chest up there. >> Yeah. Let yourself use your triceps to bring it up and then you're using your chest to lower it. Yeah. >> And it's not a lot of weight, you know? You know, if I'm using >> like a plate per side, like that's that's difficult, you know, to do these with when I'm already freaking taxed, you know, with the with the amount of squeeze and control that I'm trying to use. So, it's also a situation where like I'm not really a big bench press, barbell bench press fan. I I will definitely mess up my shoulder with that, but with the the weight that I'm using, it's like I can push that up as many times as I want, you know? I always have control of that. >> Another fun sort of um it's kind of a leverage drop set style strategy you reminded me of are is to do dumbbell flies. Um okay. and maybe cut the range of motion short. All of Roman until you get to failure and then go to push flies or press flies where you press up and then fly on the way down. So you go to failure with the flies and then then you just help yourself up with the press and you could you could do those until >> until you go to eccentric failure basically. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Those are brutal too. >> Yeah. Yeah, that would be that's great. >> Yeah. So yeah, the all what you said like you're basically you're you're switching modes. In fact, in the brain, the areas of activity in the motor cortex responsible for concentric versus eccentric contractions for a given muscle group are different. >> Yeah, >> there's different or they're not there's the same neurons that well there's a different motor recruitment pattern. You have to use you're using less fibers on an eccentric than on a concentric. all of the things being equal, but there's different activity patterns up in the brain as well controlling all of that. So, you can see you can see different areas of activity. So, you're you're and you're doing this consciously with that exercise you just described. Like you're like, "Okay, get it up. Just lift it up, you know, triceps, shoulders, whatever. And then I'll do the controlled mind muscle focus on the pecs during the eccentric." It's like, "Okay, that's done. Switch. Switch over." Boom. I become the spotter on the way up and then I become on the lifter on the way down. >> Yeah. >> Absolutely. Yeah. >> Yeah. So I hope >> I hope that everybody listening right now appreciates this conversation because this was some freaking deep stuff. If I Scott, I've been doing this for a long time, right? And I think about this stuff every day in deep detail. And I am still learning every time we do one of these shows. And it's it's putting pieces together of the things that I'm already doing. It's giving me ideas of new things to try. I really do hope that you guys are really listening to this. And I hope you tell me, are you are you guys getting this the way I'm getting this? Because there's some good stuff in here. >> Give us a hell yeah in the comments or something. Yeah, let's get a hell yeah in the comments if you guys are connecting to this one. >> The thing I was going to say is the question one might ask based on what we just talked about is are you the lifter or are you the spotter? >> Okay, are you trying to lift the weight with the target muscles or are you just trying to make sure the weight moves from point A to point B, which is what a spotter would do is make sure you get out of the hole or what have you. You're the you're the spotter on that exercise you just described getting up and you're the lifter on the way down. >> Are you the lifter throughout your exercises or are you basically more like a spotter and that you're just doing whatever it takes to like you see people doing these you know look look at the guy's bench pressing, you know, eight plates per side and he's got two spotters and everyone's lifting the weight for him, >> right? Are you lifting the weight with the muscles that you intend to lift it with, that you intend to make grow, or are you basically like those spotters that are just pulling the weight up and down for you along the way? >> Yeah. >> So, yeah, that would be even like a t-shirt. Are you the lifter or are you the spotter? >> Yeah. Multiple meetings. >> I like that. We burnt through a whole show talking about this one topic. Do you realize that? >> We've been criticized. I saw a lot of criticism on that. Somebody was like, "A whole hour on Nick Walker's training." Okay, guys. >> And I forget who it was, but someone else made a very nice comment. This is exactly why I tune in to Muscle Minds is because it's because it's a deep dive. So, >> you need to put in the little warning. You know, this was potentially a deep dive and you could be wasting cognitive resources if you try to listen to the whole thing. So, >> watch out. Be aware. Your brain could be drained afterwards. Or maybe inspired. Hopefully the latter. >> Yeah. Yeah. Hopefully. Hopefully that's a You know what? And and I'll tell you what, man. This level of thought isn't for everybody because we're not all in the place where it makes sense yet. You know what I mean? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> But that's okay, too. >> Yeah. I don't want to I mean sound like intellectually uppety or something like that. But yeah, this is there's a certain you have to have a develop a taste for this. Some people don't give a rat's ass about thinking things through in this detail. But this is why I call it bodybuilding brain candy, right? >> Yeah. to some degree if this is just it's candy for your brain. Like it's it it tastes good. It's yummy. It lights it all up. Um is it necessary? Is it all that nourishing? You do you have to be listening to this? No. For some people it's true nourishment, I think, >> because they like they're a tinkerer like me. There's some people just want to drive the hot rod and there's some people who want to tinker with and and be their own mechanic, so to speak, be their own bodybuilding coach. I might be somewhere in between where I I I like the intuitive gut process of figuring it out, but then I can come to a conversation like this and get an explanation for why the thing that works works for me. >> There's science. There's both art and science. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That's really what it is. That's really what it is. >> Guys, we appreciate you tuning in, man. >> Yeah. Yeah. Last thing I'll say is it's interesting because sometimes >> the scientists and the artists speak different languages >> or so it seems. But they're they're they're if they grew up in the same country in the same city, they're speaking the same language. They just haven't learned how to communicate with one another or open their minds to the possibility >> that they're living in the same universe. Right? So, >> I had a professor in college, uh, photography professor, and, uh, he said, "Photography is the bastard child of art and science." >> And it really is because you're using you're using math equations and and exposures and chemical reactions, either chemical reactions from the light to the silver hallid crystal. Not anymore. Now, we're hitting digital sensors. Um, chemicals in the dark room, you can modulate those chemicals. the amount of time that something is left into a developer, you know, all these things there. It's all using science to get a to to you to create something to create this piece of art to communicate something. And man, I've always thought, Scott, that >> we do the exact same thing in bodybuilding, be it in the gym, be it in our nutrition, be it with peeds, like all of this stuff is the bastard child of art and science. It really is. >> Yeah. you Robert Piery um wrote the book Zen and the Art of Motorcycle maintenance. >> I love that book. Yeah. >> Yeah. So you you know about this um his notion of quality which is sort of this ineffable characteristic and he he talked about it I think initially in the book in the context of essay writing. He was a a college professor and he'd get essays and sometimes he tried to grade those objectively you know. >> Yeah. and like this is you get a 92 or you get this grade or what have you. And sometimes there's an ineffable quality that you can sense that you would just see as when observing a piece of art, right? >> You see that photograph and there's just something to that there's this certain quality that we as human beings can perceive. And I see it now for instance in at least at this point in some of the things that are AI generated. you see letters, there's just a sort of a generic quality. Although it sounds it's grammatically correct, it sounds right. It seems right, but there's just a quality that's missing. There's a there's a a it's lacking in personality in some way, shape, or form, >> right? And sorry, we're getting all philosophical here now, but but bodybuilding is like you could figure out, you don't have to have, you know, read through this science to figure it out the things we're talking about. You don't need to know about you know brain activity during concentric and eccentric. You can you can you can just basically intuitit those things over the course of time. >> Like one of the things Roman mentioned that is that he has figured out because he's been very meticulous with looking at what works and what doesn't work is that he benefits more from higher reps when it comes to chest and delt training. It's not the only person that that but that works for him. >> Right? that runs counter to um the idea that is being profered um based on some some for various reasons that five to eight reps is where you should start off with. Well, that's a good starting point. I don't think anyone's saying like that's all that would work, but Roman figured out what worked through him because he's an he's a bodybuilding artist, right? >> Yeah. >> Who also keeps meticulous records and knows exactly what he's doing. So you could you could intuit it all those things and come to your own conclusions as a pure artist. Um but what I what I kind of find interesting is I have kind of an artist's mindset and I look into the science to try to see how that information flows into the in the way in which we perceive reality as bodybuilders that this works and this doesn't work >> you know and try not to cherrypick too much. I I I I do pick studies knowing the study suggests that this phenomenon uh there's a reason for this phenomenon that people perceive works better than this this it's evidence that it does. Does it work for that way for everybody? No. But >> yeah, you're also quick to point out the opposite too when that study shows and say, "Hey, you guys make the decision at the end." Which really frustrates our listeners sometimes. >> Yeah. Yeah. That that's mean that's the I was listening to something this morning. It was a German um kind of a documentary and like there's some evidence that's coming into being suggesting that some of Einstein's theories need to be um need to be revised or amended to some degree. Right. >> Okay. >> And the whole idea was that even at its very nature, we're never going to know how the universe actually works, you know, and our theories are always going to have to be updated, etc. We just we keep on kind of approximating as best we can given this basic premise that we actually are not living in some sort of an artificial simulation right now. We could all be living in a matrix that's just set up to make us to to give us these fancul notions that we can figure out how the universe works. But that's kind of the fun part of it is like I've got the lab of my own body in the gym and you know tinkering in my garage and then I can also go online or I can go into the science in this case and figure out oh this is how this works and this is how this works and I can bring that back to my personal app and that back and forth between those two worlds is where where I I dance and play and and draw and paint and sculpt so to speak with the information I present and with I do what I you know used to do more actively before I can beat myself to a pulp when I was, you know, actually engaging in competitive bodybuilding at the same time. So, but yeah, there's there's there's art like science is um it really never last thing I'll just say because I've grammar for a while here, but is people like to say we proved this with science. >> This is something that Gary Dudley mentioned to me. He's like, you really don't you have mathematical proofs. Physics might say we've proven the existence of this particular particle because we we found it at one particular. So that's sort of our proof. But otherwise, science is just approximating what may happen or what did happen, but it's not proving it's just substantiating notions or or then refuting those hypotheses potentially. And that's the beauty of it is like you're always in this state of like I don't really know, but hopefully we're nearing some semblance of what we could call a truth. Yeah. Yeah. And it's only when I think people are honest with how they present the science that we can understand that versus I think the pack which is a whole other topic the whole sales package of follow the science follow the evidence-based this is how you will know beyond a shadow of a doubt that this is exactly what you need to do. Here is the formula and go you know. >> Yeah. That's much more easy to sell than some of the stuff we talk about. Yeah, >> it is. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thank you for being here. And uh like I like Scott said, give us a hell yeah if you connected to this one and you figured something out or you connected something something you were already doing in the gym and you're like, "Oh, that's exactly what's going on here." Let us know. Or if you found something new that you're going to give a try to and definitely check out by yobbcoach.com. that Scott's book or you can get the hard cover. I'll put the link in the description for that over at Amazon. And of course, uh supplements.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week on clothes uh closeouts and shortdated products. Uh true nutrition.com, use our code think on all your basic bodybuilding supplements. You're going to need protein. Get it from True Nutrition. Use our code think to get 10% off and to support our programming. And of course, uh thank you to everybody from Patreon. You guys are freaking awesome. We appreciate you. Load us up with questions for Patreon on that next episode. And we got a bunch more stuff coming up on Muscle Minds, guys, for another episode of the program. I'll see you soon. Thank you, Scott, as always. >> You're welcome as always. >> And you guys have a nice day on the live stream. Thanks for joining us. >> Oh yeah, for sure. We had a lot of comments, didn't we? That was badass. >> We did.