 n performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing performing We're also brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements, protein powder, creatine, intra-workout, all your basic stuff. And we're brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians' great deals that change week to week. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. Scott, I'm letting you take the wheel. Literally, you're taking the wheel. You're in your travel mode, right? Yeah, for the coming future, the unforeseen future. Yeah. Okay. So Scott's a vagabond now. And we're going to be doing the podcast from his travels. Who knows where we'll be talking to him next. Yeah, Scott. So Kubo wants to get you on and talk about basically plotting out your year in bodybuilding, setting up goals, basically. You know, basically a lot of what Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach does helps you to structure a plan and then carry that out from your off-season through the diet phase into the prep, you know, and then into the show itself. So I think it's a great idea, man. I'll look forward to that. But what do we got going on today? Okay. Well, I've got a couple things. I'm not even sure personally where I want to start, to be honest, but I think we'll just wing it. There's a paper that came out looking at this question that has been, I've dug a little bit deeper, and there are a couple papers, but the evidence is mixed. There's actually a paper I didn't know came out like a year or so ago looking at how important is progressive overload for making gains. So the paper is really basic and very simple, and you'll see that when I pull the PowerPoint up, which I think I'll just do right now and just dig into it here. Okay. Let's see. You want to do that? Eh. He doesn't like that. We'll do. There we go. I'm going to make sure everything's allowed. There we go. Now you should see my PowerPoint presentation. Muscle Minds. Yes. All right. I didn't even put it on. What is it, 2026 this year that we're at? Sure is. Something like that. Okay. I thought so. All right. All right. So it's you and me. Scott times two. And I'll go full screen on this puppy. This is a paper. It just came hot off the press. It's progressive overload affects the magnitude of muscle hypertrophy. So, Scott, I want you to, like, ask me questions. And we can switch. I may have to change what I'm, my screen sharing configuration here. But this is a really basic, simple study looking really basic, simple. It's kind of bizarre, actually, that this is the state of the evidence, the state of the science that we're asking these questions after exercise science has been measuring muscle hypertrophy and muscle growth for so many years. And we're still asking whether progressive overload is important. But we'll kind of get to that. And we can kind of open up the discussion. So this study came out of Brazil. Cassiano was the first author's name. They ended up with 55 untrained women. So this is basically they did overhead elbow extension, three sets of eight to 12 reps for three times a week for eight weeks. Your standard basic deal. And they did, they had, basically they randomized based on the arms. So each arm received of these women received one of three conditions. Either it underwent progressive overload. So when you got above or to this 12 reps per set, the weight went up. Or they did an initial workout, get them up and running. And then they just repeated the second workout of the first week for the rest, the other 22 workouts. So three times, eight, 24 workouts in total. And everything just stayed the same. Zero progressive overload. Imagine you go into the gym. Your trainer says, you know, it's your first time in there. Complete newbie. You do kind of a mess around workout. And then you go and you just, you use 30 pounds for, or maybe it drops down because you have some fatigue. But you do your workout. And then you just never change your weight. Like a lot of people do. Right? Yeah. There are many people in the gym who are just doing the same old shit for years on end. They don't, you go on autopilot and you just know like, oh, I use the 30 pound dumbbells when I do dumbbell curls. And you never question it. You just go to the dumbbell curls next while you're having a conversation with your buddy. Yeah. You know, and I think there are probably people who like go to the big box gyms and they don't care. Once they get your membership, once you're signed up with your automatic debit, they just throw you to the wolves. It's like, okay, go out there, sink or swim. And people just pick up something like, okay, well, I did that and I got sore. So let's just stay there. So this kind of reflects what some people do. And then they also had a no training control too, which was nice. Because sometimes it's an important thing with exercise science studies, especially, I don't know if it's so much the case in Brazil, but this would happen a lot, for instance, in the Scandinavian countries where they would have these really cold winters or lots of darkness. And then people would, especially if they had longer studies and they used to do longer studies. And then it would get nice. And all of a sudden people's activity levels would change tremendously. Oh, dude, that's Michigan. Totally. Here in Manhattan, it's like that. Oh, yeah. Right. So you're a homebody for part of the year. And then, so especially if you're measuring, for instance, legs where people are, maybe they're starting to walk or run when it's nice. You could have some changes based on the baseline activity or the background activity level. So they had a non-training control here. So, yeah. Dog force Tanya says, so this is a study on just going through the motions versus actual training. Sensational. Love that. Well, it was actual training versus going through the motions. Yeah. Yeah. That's what you're saying. That was, yeah, that was the point is to compare going through the motions. And literally, and they, but each, the thing is they randomize. We can, if we have time, we can go into study because there's an entire, we could probably spend two hours going through the segments of this very simple study. Just to, and that was a thought I had, if we have time to show people what it's like when you read a study from start to finish. What are the components? Because it's not that, it's not that big of a deal. I even heard recently someone said, if you're a lay person, you shouldn't even try to read the science. You should just stay away from it. It should be off limits. And I, I vehemently disagree with that. As long as someone's being honest about what they can understand and what they can't. Everyone has to start somewhere. People with PhDs weren't born with that knowledge. They had to start reading at some point in time. And anyway, I think everyone can, can potentially learn something if they just apply themselves, even if they don't have a whole lot of baseline background information. So it's, it's worth, I mean, some people, you're not a mechanic. You didn't grow up messing with cars, but you can learn to change your own oil. And that can be a valuable thing to do. So anyway, so the progressive overload, the weight increase to keep the reps in range and the non-progressive overload, they just made the second training session was repeated. So this is what happened to the training volume. So progressive overload is here. And you can see as their number of sets was staying the same and their loads were getting higher as they got stronger. And then everything was exactly the same here with the non-progressive overload group. So here's what happened. And this is what one forced Tanya saying. Here's what happened to the reps in reserve. So they were, they were training pretty close to failure about one rep in reserve in the progressive overload group. So that's because they kept on adjusting the weight. This makes sense. So the reps in reserve stayed where they intended. They're training pretty hard. And then when the weight was the same, eventually they got here in around the second half to about, looks like about four reps in reserve. And then it basically, it was just, they were just staying four or five reps away from failure. It got easier and easier because they weren't changing the weight. So one thing that wasn't really addressed directly, but this, and it's because they didn't have the data to address this. And we'll get to that in a second. But this would sort of address that. It could potentially, if they'd made more measurements, addressed at least indirectly the idea of what are effective reps. And I'll just, I'll just say it now. Let's say we saw hypertrophy progressing through these first 10 or 12 sessions. And then hypertrophy, let's say they're, let's say they could make measurements every time they trained. Which really can't do practically speaking. But every time they got these reps in reserve measurements and every training session, they could get a measurement of muscle size. The practical, practicality. And then they saw, well, the muscle stopped growing once you, or they could have seen once the reps in reserve got above four or five. That would be an indicator that effective reps were no longer available to stimulate growth effectively, so to speak. So anyway, this is kind of what you'd expect, but it's nice they documented that. So they measured, this is here, they measured the tricep at 60% and 70% down from the proximal aspect of the triceps brachii. So here they have triceps brachii 60, triceps brachii 70. These are all the individual data, so this is always kind of cool to see. And you see the same pattern. They had another plot where they just combined the two measurements, the two levels of the triceps. And no growth here in terms of muscle thickness changes. There's centimeters in this case in the control group. And then they actually got some growth with the non-progressive overload. But they got better growth with progressive overload. We see the same pattern at both levels of the triceps. Okay. So, interesting, interesting that they got some growth with no progressive overload. And that's because, and I've been saying this for years too, is the key feature about resistance exercise is that it's such a dramatic excursion from what the muscle is typically exposed to in the course of most people's day-to-day activity. Okay. These were untrained women who were doing, I think the criterion was they can't have done any resistance exercise for three months. So that's probably not the best. A year probably would have been better. Some of those people could have just been falling off the wagon for three months and they had years of training before that. That creates a different scenario. But, you know, they did randomize their conditions here. So hopefully that wouldn't have been an issue. But that's, you know, potentially a problem. But when you come in and if, let's say you had never trained literally ever and you start, you do these first workouts, that's a stimulus for muscle growth. There was some muscle growth that occurred there. I think the average here was about 11% for the progressively overloaded condition. So they got some muscle growth. And the question, and I'll just repeat this because I think it's helpful, is my contention would be that this muscle growth probably occurred early on. Oh, okay. And they didn't make a measurement in the middle of the training period. Right? Okay. Yeah. Because they did a nice job in that they waited 72 hours after the last training session to allow any swelling to go away. Okay. But that's a problem. If you've got post-exercise muscle swelling or some soreness, that could contribute to the muscle size or the muscle thickness in this case. So that's what makes a difference. Because if you're training every 48 hours, right, you could do every week. You could train them on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, and then do a muscle thickness measurement right before they train again on Monday. Yeah. That's a lot. That's a lot to do. It's a pretty extensive – they had two people involved with making the measurements to confirm that what they visualized on the ultrasound was okay and blah, blah, blah. So that would have been a massive undertaking to make measurements every single week. But my thought would be that they were having effective reps based on reps from reserve, or at least initially, and that they didn't get any of the growth in the second half. But they didn't measure that. They didn't evaluate. Can you go back to that for just a second, Scott? This year? Yeah, yeah. So can you explain to me, like, what were they – so at the beginning, the people who were doing more reps in reserve, why weren't they doing more reps in reserve earlier on compared to later? I just don't understand that. So they came in – actually, they were training one arm one way and the other arm the other way. So it wasn't actually – you were in the progressive overload group or the non-progressive. Oh, that's right. Okay, yeah, yeah. But same idea. It's just nice. There's some statistical reasons why it's nice to do it that way. You also have cross-training effects that can play a role. But so when they came in, and you can see that you've got basically identical reps in reserve here. Yeah. And they didn't actually take the sets to failure. They just used psychological ratings. Okay. So they went in. This first – or this is actually the second session – was they're just kind of getting up to speed. And then they set the loads that they're going to use. So the third session is when really things started going. Okay. And so at this point, after the Friday of the first week, they went Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, they're training so that they can get between 8 and 12 reps on each of those three sets, the two minutes rest in between. Okay. And that's how they train both arms. So let's say it was – for the non-progressive overloaded arm, it was 100 pounds, 95 pounds, and 90 pounds. Right? Okay, yeah. They went in the next Monday, and they did 100, 95, 90, and then the next Wednesday and Friday, and every time thereafter, it was always 100 pounds, 95 pounds. They never changed the weight. They just messed around, used the same weight. So it progressively became easier. Oh, I see. I started asking them, like, well, how many reps you got in reserve? It's like, well, like I could get a whole bunch more. You haven't changed the weight. There's no progressive overload here. I see. I got it. Whereas with the progressive overload, this is a nice figure to have. In this case, they kept on adjusting the weight. Gotcha. Gotcha. They were basically coming – and some people were hitting failure, right? This is the standard deviation bars here. So this is just an average. But they were – if you look, this is probably the one level. So they were at one rep or less when they asked them every single time. So they were going – I got it. Yeah. I got it. And this is the – I'm glad you asked that because you weren't the only person who probably wasn't following along here. That's the important – That's why I figured I'd, yeah, bring it up. Awesome. No, thank you. So that's what's – this is a nice study. And it's – and I'll get to something here with regards to this. So this is what we found. There was some growth. I presume it happened initially because you wouldn't expect that training at this level would have produced much muscle growth. These would have been really – and actually there's a study out of Japan where they did this. They took 10 rep max loads. And I think they trained – it was – it may have been a knee extension study. But they were training with an internal controller. And they had an internal model like this. So one leg trained one way. The other leg trained the other way. Like this is actually – it's cited in my Fortitude Training book. And in that case, when you took that 10 rep max load and split that up into two sets of five, so about five reps in reserve, which is what we see here, about five reps in reserve, there wasn't any muscle growth. Because if you do – if you pick a weight you could do 10 times and you do a set of five with it, it's like that's too easy. This is where – this is part of the rationale for effective reps. So if you took, you know, a weight you could do a set of 10 with and you just did doubles and instead of doing 30 reps using three sets of 10, you did 15 doubles with that and got those 30 reps. And your training volume load was the same. You really wouldn't expect – because all of those reps would be easy. You could do that throughout the course of the day. You'd have no high effort. You'd have no effective reps essentially given with the effective reps model because the effort was so low. And they discussed this in the paper. This has to do with the idea that activation of – we're in a Henneman size principle. Those high threshold motor units don't get activated at all when the sets are easy or they don't get activated at a high frequency. So they don't – basically you don't get stimulus to a large part of the muscle when you're training with so many reps in reserve. So without the stimulus, you don't get the growth. So moving forward here. So progressive overload was simple. So it's superior. But no progress load. There was some growth. There's no intermediate measure made. This is the thing. They had this control group. This was nice to see. Nothing happened in the control group. So this is what we see here. So that was – or the control condition. I should have put condition there instead of group. So the question they didn't answer, which I would have loved just to see a correlation, was the rate or extent of progressive overload correlated to the muscle growth? So in this experimental design – and this is why we do experiments like this. Because you can have an inference. So the inference is the non-progressively overloaded arm was – especially in this scenario where it's the same person with the same nutrition, the same daily activity. And they were randomizing based on dominant arm and those sorts of things. That the only thing that differed was that one arm was not progressively overloaded during the training and the other was. So the inference there was that progressive overload plays a causative role in muscle growth because we saw that progressive overload was superior for muscle thickness. Yeah. So this is what's interesting to me. Like this keeps on – there's been a few times I've found some papers now. But so often progressive overload is – it's the standard. It's done in almost every study. I've talked about ad nauseum here. So if we have a study now that basically allows us to infer that progressive overload in this context, a very short study, is important for muscle growth, we would expect there to be some relationship between the extent of progressive overload and the change in muscle thickness. So let's run a regression calculation here. Or let's do a correlation. But they didn't do that. I'm not sure why. Kind of beyond me. And the idea would be – let's say you have – some people come in like, I've got to do this progressive overload thing. I really don't want to train hard. And I don't want to have to change the weight. And like, I just don't want to do it. It's like many people who go in and they like – if they don't have a personal trainer, they're not going to train hard at all. And, you know, they're joking. And they bitch and they moan. And they're like, no, I don't want to lift heavier weights. Can we just stick with this? And then there are some people who are like, oh, this is frigging awesome. Yeah. I got 120. I'm getting – give me 125. Give me 130. It's like, no, I can't give you 130. You're going to get six reps. Give me the more weight. It's like, no, you have to put the reins on those folks. So for those people who really wanted to progress with overload, I'm just talking about psychological, potentially psychological reasons for that. Or they have the genetics for putting on muscle size and maybe the size was contributing. Because we've got a neuromuscular adaptation here. We've got the nervous system that's probably creating most of the increase in strength. So most of the increase in – and I'll go back here – in this training volume. This is mostly neurological. Classic study people can look up, Mauritani and DeVries. They used EMG measurements. It's kind of raw. But this idea of most of the strength gains initially coming from the nervous system is age-old and it's well-substantiated. Because you get strength gains that far outweigh the increases in muscle size. So 11% increase in muscle size. Their strength – I'd have to go and look. You could calculate from here. But 100 to – let's say that's 135, 140. Probably let's say 140. So 40% increase in the loads that they were using. And they had about 11% increase in muscle size. So 3 quarters – just calculating here off the cuff – 3 quarters of the increase in load could be attributed based on this calculation. Which is just their nervous system figuring out how to pick up the weight, how to do this exercise. Okay. So – but so some people may just have a nervous system. They're just naturally more athletic, whatever it might be. The question would be then is do those individuals who can load progressively overload more so, do they get more muscle size? This is what a correlation would at least suggest because we already have the inference because of the nature of how the study was done. So they didn't do that. I'm not sure why. They just – that doesn't happen. So often I would just love to see that. So – so here's – there's some unanswered questions here. And this is – I've taken a quote. This is a quote from the paper. So this is – this is the insight – this is an insight into how scientists look at their own research findings very, very conservatively. So whether training without increases in overload remains effective for inducing muscle growth when performed for longer periods remains an open question and warrants further investigation. Right? So – and I've got another quote from another paper. I didn't close the quotes down there. But so whether training increases in overload remains effective for inducing muscle growth performed for longer periods remains an open question. So the question – another way to ask that is so if we take someone who's been training and at one year they can use 150 pounds and at five years they can use 300 pounds, would that manifest in more muscle size? Does – do we have any – is there anything that would suggest that massively increasing your strength in the gym over periods of longer than eight weeks to beyond this eight-week training study that it would make any difference in the world? Warrants further investigation. So their study only went to eight weeks. So this – when you make – you see a statement like this in a research study – and I'm almost being sarcastic here, but this is – this is – this is very, very conservative. And this statement is based on the fact that their study only lasted for eight weeks. In order to know whether progressive overload would make a difference beyond eight weeks, it warrants further investigation. Well, there's tons of empirical evidence out there that people who get brutally strong after their first eight weeks of training also end up being pretty dang big, right? Yeah. This study does not – does not – didn't investigate that. Hmm. So the other – Why didn't they – Go ahead. Why didn't they do more measurements throughout? Wow. And I wonder, Scott, so it's almost – so the load, basically, it's almost like that effort went down, right, for the people who were doing the reps and reserve. That effort, like, slowly but surely, it got easier and easier. I mean, I almost feel like – is it possible that these guys wanted to show, like, that progressive overload works? Was this – is it ever possible, like, they could just, like – let's set up a study that shows that progressive overload works? It's progressive overload, and this is – they go through this in the discussion of their study. It's a basic principle, American College of Sports Medicine has it in its position stands. It's a – it's the most basic training principle that's used in pretty much every sport. So this study, I believe, comes from this previous publication. Jeremy Lineke was the last name on here. He's one of the main researchers who's proffered this idea that I sort of addressed earlier, that muscle hypertrophy is really kind of a side effect of resistance exercise training. We have in bodybuilding – that's what our goal is. We're using weight training, bodybuilding training to evoke that adaptation. Yeah. But from the perspective of a scientist who's looking at the broader picture, and just we saw in this paper, and in general, when you look at the increases in strength, muscle hypertrophy, an increase in muscle cross-sectional area or muscle size or physiological cross-sectional area, the ability of the muscle per se to produce more force is a relatively minor contributor to that performance enhancement. A lot of it, especially in a sporting context, is about coordination. It's about ability to activate the muscle. It's a neurological or a neural phenomenon. Okay. And so this study – in one sense, this study was – I think it came from this paper that Lenike – Hammert is the first name – put out. Because they describe in their section on further investigation doing a study with exactly this design. So they carried this out. Okay. So in one sense, yeah, they were – when you do a study like this, and this is more in the scientific perspective, you presume a null hypothesis, right? So the presumption – practically speaking, we're thinking there's a reason why we're going to examine progressive overload because you have some presumption that it might play an important role, right? But statistically, when you write your hypotheses, very traditionally, and this is sort of the objective perspective of the scientists, is you write a null hypothesis that there will be no difference, that progressive overload will not matter in terms of muscle growth. And that is technically what the statistics are testing. And then when you find that there is an effect that is beyond your probability of – usually it's 5% is the assumed value, and that's actually somewhat arbitrary. It's a whole other story. Then you're like, okay, wow, that was unexpected. Progressive overload did actually make a difference. Practically speaking, of course, you set up the whole study because you suspect progressive overload would make a difference. So let me read this quote here. From this other paper that Jeremy Lineker was on, it says, Why it is logical to think that progressive overload would be important throughout a training career. And that's emphasis mine there. It remains plausible that in resistance training studies and or over shorter time frames, 6 to 12 weeks, this was an 8-week study, an approach to training which does not include progressive overload could be similarly as effective for stimulating muscle growth compared to the one that does. So that paper came out in 2024. This paper that we've been talking about was just published in the last – I just saw it like a month ago. So if you look at the literature, no one had done a study like this. There's just post hoc examinations. There's some studies show, yeah, total training volume was predictive. We're talking about correlations. I'm kind of doing the math backwards in my head. The R squared, the correlations are probably like 0.4, which is not bad. It's not like there's a one-to-one correlation between how much you progress and how much growth you get. Yeah. And the main thing here – and this is one of the most important things to get from what I'm showing here – is that this is a weakness. This is an issue with the vast majority of the research studies that are done looking at muscle growth. I'm sorry. Can you repeat that? You broke up a few times, but that was such an important spot. Yeah. Yeah. I'll say it again. So probably the most important thing that I'm alluding to that I'm driving towards in examining this paper, and it's right here in this quote from the Hammer et al. review, is that there's a major issue called a weakness or a lack of applicability to the vast majority of the research studies that are done looking at muscle growth because they're so short in duration. Oh, okay. And if you look at the previous literature, which is covered in this Hammer et al. paper from 2024, it's mixed. There's some studies that seem to show that total training volume or progression over the course of the training period is predictive or there is correlated with the amount of muscle growth, and some don't show so much. And this study, they actually predicted here, could be similarly as effective for stimulating muscle growth compared to one that does. So they actually thought that if this study were carried out, and now it has been, that there would be no difference. Progressive overload wouldn't matter for a short study like this. But over a training career, if you want to start, if you want to keep growing beyond 12 weeks, beyond six months, beyond a year, beyond two years, as much as you can, they're not, these studies aren't examining that. We don't have progressive overload studies. We don't have resistance exercise training studies, intervention studies with bodybuilders, natural or otherwise, that are, that have lasted really beyond six months. Okay. That's about as far as I've ever seen. And that was, that was even, wasn't even a continuous study. There's, Sterin and I did a study in 90 and 91. They published the data, I think, in two different studies. But most of the studies are three or four months at most. This was a two month, a two month study, eight weeks. So, and the thing is, is one, the progressive overload that you see when you look at the training loads is predominantly because of the nervous system. Right? And there's some psychology there as well. Someone goes in and they're really kind of getting off on lifting heavier weights and enjoying it. They're going to progress more rapidly than someone who really just, just kind of resisting the therapy, so to speak, and doesn't want to do that. Then there's just genetic aspects. And the outcome measure of muscle growth is relatively mine. It's a minor contributor to that progressive overload at the beginning when the nervous system is figuring out what the heck is up and how to actually do the training. Right? But down the road at some point in time, progressive overload, I think, can, it is going to play a bit because eventually you're going to learn how to lift. Right? And you may have to tweak that. We talked about this a lot here too. Going back and figuring out how to create a better mind-muscle connection so that your target muscle is the one that you're activating during the lifts that you're actually doing. This was a nice study because they were just doing an overhead tricep extension. Right? Yeah. And they were being watched. So there's no cheating. It wasn't a compound movement. They actually mentioned that here as, in terms of their limitations, is, you know, this was with the single isolation movement, which is nice. It isolates the triceps. So you weren't doing like a close grip bench press or something like that. Yeah. So we've got the fact that the nervous system takes up a large percentage of what's happening in terms of the logbook. And then also there's the law of diminishing returns here too. So the rate at which muscle growth occurs is typically faster initially. Everyone sees this empirically. So when we look here at this non-progressive overload group that basically took their second training session and then just kept on training that way all the way through, they didn't overload at all. Even this initial training, just sticking with the same weight was enough to get some growth because they were so receptive to the training stimulus because it was so novel in that untrained state. So that's very different. The newbie gains that happen when you first start training are a totally different thing than when you're trying to get the last 10%, 15% approach your genetic limit or what have you based on the other things you might be doing to get muscle to grow. I get it would be a different study, but I kind of would have been really interested if, say, they did just like four reps in reserve and then kept it there. I understand it would be a different study, but I'd be curious to see, well, how did their gains track compared to the people that were keeping it at one rep in reserve that whole time? We have the meta regression from Pelland et al. I think those guys have changed who the first name is, but Pelland is, I think, the first name on this particular study. And they combined, gosh, they had thousands of subjects among all the studies that they combined. We've looked at this previously on the podcast here. And there was a relationship between reps in reserve and muscle growth. And muscle growth was progressively better the fewer reps in reserve that you had. I could probably pull that up. It would take me a while. So, yeah, there's definitely something going on there in terms of reps in reserve, how hard you're training and how much growth you'll get, generally speaking. So, but even then, those studies are all very short, right? Those are all, they're all subject to this issue of this, of most of the time. And we've also got the Betito meta-analysis that we covered here, too, where looking at muscle growth across training status from one year to two years of training status to three to four and then five plus. When they take those individuals and put them into research studies and evaluate whatever things they're looking at, frequency or training volume or what have you, you would expect the law of diminishing returns would suggest that those more advanced trainees, the ones who've been training for four or five years, aren't going to get the gains that you would see from people who are just in their first year. Where they still got lots of room to grow. It's not what the Betito et al. Manalysis found is that basically the gains were the same. In fact, they seem to be a little bit higher. It wasn't statistically significant, but it seemed like once you got beyond four or five years of training that the gains were better. And my guess there, at least one thing that could have explained that is that if you're someone who's been training for four or five years and somehow you realize I'm just not getting everything out of my training that I could, those would be the people who would say, I'm going to go do this research study because I'm not figuring this out on my own. And maybe I'll learn something from these guys, right? Whereas if you're the guy who's been training for five years and you're kicking ass and you're the, you're the biggest badass in your gym and you're happy with your gains and you've really meticulously cultivated your diet and your recovery and twisted all the dials. You got everything lined up and you're happy. You're not going to go into a research study and say, Hey, you know, okay, I'll just hand it all over to you and we'll see what happens. Yeah. Yeah. You stay out of those research studies. So, um, yeah, we've, we've got, there's some, there's some selection bias that may play a role. Meaning that when you look at people who are, who are trained and this is just in general, one year training or five years of training is that you're not going in to like, you're not going to a bodybuilding show and just saying, okay, you know, these, we're the science dictators. And we're going to randomly select 20, you guys, and you don't have any choice in the matter. It's a volunteer basis when you come in. So it's like, and there's a reason someone would volunteer if they're, if they're highly trained or they've been training for some period of time. They may be a graduate student and they're doing it, you know, cause they get credit for a class or they're, or an undergraduate student in many cases. Um, but you're not select, you're not randomly sampling. That's, that's an advantage of using untrained people, right? Is you, um, at least the, that their training status is all the same and you don't have variable abilities to have really, um, exploited what their hypertrophic potential is. Whereas I would guess, I'd love to see someone study this, you know, just say, ask a question when you're doing your intake or bringing people in your studies. Like, why are you doing this study? Right. What's your reason for doing this? And it is part of it because you feel like you haven't really gotten everything out of your training. You should. Um, yeah. Um, so anyway, that's, um, I thought this was a really interesting study and I, and I thought this was really, really, it was really cool to see this group who's been highly critical of, with good reason, I think of the research, um, suggesting, well, it's logical. I think the progressive over to be important throughout a training career. So over the course of many, many years, this six to eight, six to 12 week window, it's, it's, it's, you could say it's categorically different than what's going to, what you're going to be need to be doing when you're four or five years in. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. That makes a hundred percent. Uh, I want to let everybody know in the live stream guys, if you're watching this and Scott was breaking up on you that it will be beautifully clear in the recorded final version. So we're just doing this live just to hang out with you guys, but the, uh, the final version will be a hundred percent solid. So, um, that's, I think that's probably good for now. What we might do, uh, we could do for the next episode is go through this paper. Okay. So people have seen the results. They'll be familiar with it. This is a great way to do it. It's there. It's not like all of a sudden brand new for them. And then look at the things that go into the paper. Okay. And how they, and how meticulous they are to answer your question. Like, why don't they just make the measurements every week? It's like, oh, Tanya mentioned this. She said, she said no mid, uh, intervention measurements is an exercise study is that, that, that a choice. She said, I remembered being constantly pressured to get as many measurements and statistical tests as possible for my study because you never knew what would be significant. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is. It is a choice and it's a choice based on, on their resources, you know, they probably own the B, the B mode ultrasound. So that's there, but we can, let me see, I can, um, let me see if I pull this up here. Let me find the paper. Just because we can go into it. Let's see here. Dun, dun, dun. So let me, uh, let me show this. There it is. Okay. So here's our, our methods. Um, and I don't know if folks, not on a phone, they'll definitely want to see this, but at least it lets me, lets me, I have something to read here. Okay. So 72 hours after the second familiarization session, triceps brachii was measured via B mode, B mode ultrasound. So, um, let's see, where is it? Muscle thickness measurement. So the muscle thickness measurement, elbow extensor muscles taken via B mode ultrasound. And then they list this, the specs of the ultrasound and arrival to the lab participant had both arms measured and marked reference lines were drawn on participant skin with a dermal dermal graphic pen on the sites where the images were obtained. Images of the bicep brachii were obtained on both arms at 60% and 70% of the distance between the acromial process, the scapula, the lateral up kind of the humorous. Some of both sites used for further analysis. The measurements were completed first on the right, then the left arm arm length was recorded. And used for post training measurement after being marked. The position was their position prone on the stretch for 10 minutes before the start of the measurement. So they got to have them lay down for 10 minutes. Um, and then they talked about the, the, the, whether that made it made a difference. This whole paragraph, I could go on and on, um, is all about how they did this. So the first, the two assessors blinded the group allocation, participated in measurement procedures. First handled the probe, first handled the probe. The second was responsible for freezing the images. When the quality of the image was deemed to be satisfactory, the second assessor obtained muscle thickness dimensions. Two images were taken at each site. The values were averaged to get a final measurement, um, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. It doesn't say, I don't think how long that took, but man, I wouldn't be surprised if that was at least an hour, at least an hour. Oh, okay. And that's for each person. That's for each of the 55, 55 people. I guess that would make sense. They didn't do a lot of. Yeah. And yeah. Right. And if they had, I mean, it depends on how they brought them in, in cohorts. They may have, may have brought in like groups of 10. Um, and then they may have, I don't know. It's maybe in there. I don't remember seeing it, but like, you've got all those people you have to do. And then you have to bring two assessors together at the same time. Yeah. And if you're going to do all those people on Monday, well, that's, if it takes an hour, you've got 10 hours. So they had to strategize those. Maybe they could do three of those a day. So they had to strategize when people are starting their training, when their last training session is. And then 72 hours later, they had to get their ultrasound measurement done. So there's a massive amount of juggling calendar schedules and then people like, you know, they get stuck in traffic and. Yeah. So the beginning of the study and the end of the study, the researchers were super, super busy is what it came down to. Yeah. And that would have been maintainable throughout. They probably had flights of subjects coming through. So at the beginning and end of those eight weeks for the groups of subjects that they were accommodating, because they weren't, they weren't training 55 people on Monday. They didn't have them all at one time because there's no way they could have made all those measurements. So they had to do this over the course of who knows how many months it took me. It was like over two years when I did my dissertation. I didn't have near this, near this many subjects, just to get people in, get, find the volunteers, bring them in. We did MRI measurements. So we had to, I had to set up time. And at that time, the MRI, we had to go at night. Like I was meeting people like midnight, because that's the only time we could get in to get the MRI done. I think there's one guy came in at like two o'clock because he worked late hours. And I was meeting him there at two o'clock. And I had to, I had to pick up the MRI assessor because they were doing us a favor to make the measurements and drive them over in the middle of the night. So yeah, it's, it's a massive, massive, massive undertaking to get all these measurements done. So it absolutely, Tanya's dead on it. It is a choice, but it's based on just practicalities, you know, and there might be another lab using the ultrasound too for other things. So like, okay, so when can we get access to it? So yeah, it's, uh, yeah, it's pretty crazy. It's too bad they didn't have like easier to get measurements then, I guess. Something that would be more practical that they could just like quickly do. I don't know. Ultrasound, that's ultrasound's pretty down and dirty. Muscle biopsies are a whole other animal. Yeah. And you don't want to do multiple muscle biopsies, especially when someone's training. Um, because you do a muscle biopsy. But they're not going to want to do that every week, are they? No, that's what I'm saying. That's, that's what I'm saying. You know, like you do a, and then you do a muscle biopsy and you're supposed to come in and train like right afterwards. If you're doing like part of a program, because you're not going to want to do that. How many people are going to follow through with that eight week study? That does not sound, you'd have to pay me a lot to make that happen. Yeah. And they lost some people too. You know, they, they brought in, I think they, they've tried to get 70 people. They ended up with 55. Okay. So you have people, you know, just bail or they get sick or they just don't, they, I think they had to have 95% adherence. So if they don't, if they're making it and they get to the sixth or seventh week and they don't show up for that one time, that means that they're not going to make 95% of their training sessions. Then they're out, they're gone, you know? Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. This is like, I don't, I don't miss juggling subjects because, oh, and people are people. People are flaky too. Yeah. So, yeah. So I'm sitting here, you know, easing back, kicking back in my RV. It's like, ah, it would be great if they made measurements every week. No way. You just can't do that, right? That's why it's like totally clear to me. I guess. Yeah. My perspective. Yeah. Cause I'm just like reading it on paper. I'm like, yeah, do this, do that, you know? And that's important, you know? And I've said this before, like this is, I, I feel so honored to be in the position of having grown up as a meathead and then been able to go and study and get the research experience, get the graduates, get the letters and blah, blah, blah. So I can see it from both sides because you've got, you've got the people in the ivory tower and the, and the, and the, the meatheads, the guys who've been in the trenches for years are like, these guys don't know how to train. They don't, how many times have they thrown up after training legs? How many times have they bled, shit themselves? How many, blah, blah, blah. Yeah. And then on the other side of the state, but the same argument, just sort of flip flop can be like, do you know how hard it is to get subjects to keep coming in when they don't want to train and to motivate them and to make these measurements and understanding of the statistics and, and just getting papers accepted. There's a massive, massive amount of intellectual work. And you just have to have a mass amount of drive just to get one basic study done and completed. So someone who's done a few of those studies, people with master's degrees, you've done the thesis. They realize that a lot of people, you know, the arm armchair warriors, so to speak, or the keyboard warriors, probably better term. They just, they don't know what happens on the other side or up in that ivory tower. And, and, but they will argue that the ivory tower, people don't know what happens in the trenches and, and both of them are possibly right, but it's, there's some hypocrisy there. Um, cause you can't see, it's like, well, you know, I really don't know what these researchers do. It's not that easy. And that's why I wanted to cover this. It's a very basic paper, but it's a good one for understanding like what really goes into it. Um, cause it's a lot, it's a massive amount. And my respect to anyone, even, even crappy papers. Sometimes, sometimes you're like, okay, I can't take this one on, but even papers that maybe aren't, um, they, they seem like they have lots and lots of problems. It's like, well, you know, they did something and let's see what we can glean from that rather than just saying, ah, that's a piece of shit paper. And you just throw it out. Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. There's, there's something that went into that. Um, that's at least hopefully redeemable. So, yeah, I think that's great, man. And I appreciate you coming on to explain it. And guys, I want to throw this out there to everybody at home. Uh, if you guys see a great study that you love for us to talk about, let me know, you know, message it over to me over on Patreon, or you can link it on, uh, YouTube or send it over in the Facebook group for think big. And, uh, you know, it's something we could look at in the future. I think you're, we're always up for that stuff and I love hearing your breakdowns on this stuff, Scott. So I think it'd be a lot of fun if anybody else has anything that they want to suggest to us. Absolutely. Yeah. Throw them, throw them our way for sure. Cool. Guys, uh, check out, of course, byobbcoach.com, Scott's book, and, uh, go to truenutrition.com, use our code think and supplementsource.ca for our Canadians. Uh, and thank you to everybody from Patreon and Scott, you available for consultations. I know you're real busy lately, but are you still doing consultations right now? Absolutely. I got, I got mobile internet, so I can do it for sure. All right. We'll hit up Scott if you want to deep dive into anything. And for another episode of Muscle Minds, guys, we'll see you soon. Cool. Peace. Peace.