you mentioned when we take a certain guy up to a certain body weight and we kind of ruin their ability to put on muscle. Now, we kind of look at the science crowd and they talk about P ratios, right? And some people in the science crowd would argue that no matter how fat that somebody may get, they still have the same ability to put on muscle. Now, this is something that I don't necessarily 100% see play out uh in the real world, and I kind of wanted to pick your brain on uh kind of what you've seen as well because it seems like you agree from from what you're saying. Yeah. I mean that there's no absolutes like you said, but just what I found is is that the you know a lot of people if you take somebody and and I think a lot of us a lot of the audience that that you have here in your show and a lot of the audience that I have because it's the vast majority of people that make up gymgoers, athletes, bodybuilders, competitive or otherwise are going to be people with more average genetics, you know. And I've found that the more fat you put on, the more fat you put on. And even if you were to continue growing muscle with that, uh, you know, you're gonna, um, have to work that much harder to get the fat off. And, you know, earlier on, I I can say that a decade ago, I would force people a lot harder. I would push them a lot harder than I do. I' I'd put a lot more body fat on in order to get those gains. But if they if they don't have the ability to train hard enough to make use of that, which a lot of people don't, um they no matter how much gear they're taking or how much food I have them eating, they're generally not going to maximize that. And even if they are super hard trainers and they've got everything dialed in, they're getting the right dose of intensity and volume, um, it's it still is, you know, counterproductive to to put on too much fat. I found that if I can keep somebody leaner, I can keep them growing longer. And let's let's just say that, you know, for instance, I'm I'm I'm I'm picturing one guy that I'm working with now. We started, he hired me around the beginning of the year, I believe it was, if not a little bit before that. And his goal is to compete in November. Uh, so anyway, um, he's still pretty lean right now. Like he's he's incredible shape. Like he still has cuts in his legs, still has his abs, like no lower back fat at all. You know, nothing's like hanging over his trunks from behind. Um, I would put him at like a a super conservative 12 weeks out, meaning I could get him in shape in about seven weeks if I absolutely had to. Like, if we had to crunch down, we could do it. Um, but conservatively, like 12 weeks, we could get him there. Now, if I were to push him up to super high body fat levels, then we would have to grind that much harder and cut things back that much further. uh that much sooner, you know, versus right now where he stands, we're, you know, the we're recording this, I don't know when it'll come out, but we're recording this uh April 20th. And I mean, I I see no reason that he can't still keep food high, that he can't continue to grow. You know, we have him up at a a decently high body weight, and we're still gaining scale weight each week. He's still getting stronger each week. And I I don't see any reason that we can't continue to push up versus if body fat was high, I'd have to start thinking, oh well, when are we going to switch gears? When are we going to start to pull things back? And honestly, I'm a believer of actually being able to grow into the show, too. You know, and the leaner we keep somebody, the longer we can keep the food high, the more food you have going in while you're training hard, the more you're going to be able to grow muscle. So, I think that ultimately there's a there's a middle ground there of being able to to maintain some level of condition and uh you know, we we can see and and keep performance high and do that for like basically into the contest. And you know, I I could show you pictures of people that I've worked with, even natural guys. Um, one guy in particular who's a uh I use this guy as an example. He showed me after this was like seven, eight weeks after his contest prep. Good friend of mine, Vache, natural competitor, men's physique, small dude, and he had to diet hard. Always every time we dieted, dude would have to go to keto and he'd be doing a lot of cardio in order to get peeled. Uh he showed me this picture was he said, "Hey, Scott, this is the left picture is before the show and the right picture was about, you know, 7 weeks after the contest." Now, keep in mind, he didn't do any kind of reverse. He basically just started eating what he wanted and lost his condition after the contest. Yet, he's still in like decent shape seven weeks after, but there's no question he gained muscle. If you want, I'll send you that before and after. You could throw it up on the screen. There's no question that he made some substantial progress during this contest prep. And that's somebody who even had to diet like really hard all the way down to keto, tons of cardio, and he's natural. So, it's not like, well, he was on peed, so that helped him grow in a, you know, a deficit. There's no question in my mind that you don't need to just get somebody completely fat to get them growing muscle even optimally. So, I'd rather keep somebody growing longterm, maybe all the way into the show, you know, versus have like a big blast offseason, put on a ton of fat, and then have to rip it down, you know? Absolutely. And that was honestly the next question I was about to ask was, you know, kind of uh some people have some of that more long-term sort of approach like John Dwitt of saying, "Hey, you know, the longer that we can kind of keep somebody in this anabolic state, the more uh that we're going to have people put on muscle versus some people maybe like Dante in the past where he may have prescribed more to that blast and cruise sort of six weeks on uh four weeks or three three weeks off type of approach uh in the past where it's, you know, put on as much muscle train as hard as possible within just, you know, very short given uh sort of burst and then kind of take time off in the back end to recover. Either way, uh there's going to be some time spent on the back end to recover on that. And I do believe that uh like you mentioned, it's going to be probably a little mentally easier and a little bit mentally it's going to make people feel like a bodybuilder because at the end of the day, blowing up like Lee Priest and uh Jay Culler back in the day and kind of looking that way, you know, at least what I've seen for a lot of my clientele at least is not the best mental state to be in long term. And it kind of does burn people out, you know, uh being in, you know, feeling chubby, not necessarily liking the way that they're looking in the mirror, but like, hey, I'm putting all this work. I'm putting in the same amount of work as that guy who looks shredded, you know, year round. What what's going wrong here? It's like, okay, well, maybe we have to take a step back with this certain clientele and uh really understand that, hey, for them mentally, long term, it's probably going to be a better idea to keep them looking like a bodybuilder. And I think that's a hard thing to kind of, you know, relay to somebody who's never competed before, especially is that process like you mentioned of growing and then growing into the show because the leaner that we can keep somebody during that offseason phase, the higher, like you said, the more uh potential that we have for refeeds, diet breaks, and things like that that are really going to help drive some more anabolism even while somebody is in a period of long-term caloric deficit. Now with that there does come the discussion of protein because uh we've seen people talk about super high protein intakes uh and that being very beneficial. I know that was very very popular back in the early 2000s and 90s with um coaches such as um Chad Nichols you know prescribing crap ton of protein but recently it seems like guys have really really toned back on on protein intake for sake of digestion. Um, now we obviously know the answer for a majority of people's probably going to be in the middle ground, uh, like most things in bodybuilding. However, from your opinion, have you ever seen, you know, higher protein intake, uh, be beneficial for somebody who's really looking to put on muscle in an offseason? Yeah, I think that, you know, once again, it's going to be individual, but, uh, I do try to push protein up where we can, and I I I don't go crazy with it. Um, but you know, I I think of one person who really got me thinking about this years ago was uh somebody that I would consider to be uh a mentor and close friend uh rest in peace. His name was Dave Call. Dave Call was a bodybuilder in the early 2000s and um he coached a lot of people out especially West Coast. Uh Stan McQuay, who was a fantastic bodybuilder in the early 2000s, uh was coached by uh Dave through his his whole career. Stan competed as uh what was it? I think he started at as a 202 before they had 212. Uh he went to 212 and I want to say he even did classic. Uh I he may have done open at one point as well. I can't remember that. But, you know, talking to Dave, I asked him, I was like, you know, what was the biggest difference in his diet from, you know, Stan McQuade at his absolute most like full-blown look versus the more paired down looks? And he said it was the protein. He said I had him on like 6 ounces of protein at his I can't remember what it was, but at one of his smaller looks, and when he was bursting at the seams in 212, he was eating 10 ounces of protein per meal. You know, simple as that. that was the only thing that was different. You know, I think that this is part of the conversation where where peeds do come into play. I do believe that we can assimilate more protein on peeds. I also believe that the harder we train, the more we can drive nutrients into the muscle. I really truly do believe that. And if I can step back for just a minute, I think that, you know, so so my uh my take previously on, you know, staying on the leaner side, being able to continue growing, growing into the show, it's a conservative approach. It's a long-term approach, but if we can gain several pounds of muscle per year doing that, that means that you might be 20 pounds up in three or four years, you know, so it it still is an effective approach. And and I also mentioned that that that particular idea or mindset serves a lot of your average people. Uh you mentioned Dante pushing diets harder and absolutely like he drove the food up high. That food was to support people that were training at the upward end of maximum intensity. You know, with DC training, not everybody is capable of doing what Dante put out for DC. In fact, I tried it years ago and all I did was get hurt. Like, it made early on, man. It made no sense to me. And Dante would have told me at that time, too. Like, you stupid kid, you shouldn't even be doing this workout right now. You're not advanced enough. And then I probably would have given him the finger and said that he was, you know, like just not pay, you know, that he didn't know. He didn't know me. Maybe something like that. You don't know me. But um you know the the reality is I did figure out high intensity later and it did make a lot more sense. So I just wanted to say that you know I I don't know if I would consider your average DC trainer as being like the average person that I I think that they have a leg up because back to what I was initially saying when we first started this conversation. I think that the harder you can train the better you can make use of your nutrition and the the better progress that you can make. So, if you do have somebody who is like firing on all cylinders with a perfect DC plant and they're they're breaking uh records, you know, and beating the log book each week, then they would probably be the person that would stand to make the best progress out of really pushing the food up high, you know. So, I, you know, I'm all for that as well. So, I just wanted to throw that out there to you as a side note. But, yeah, back to the the protein thing. I mean, I I think that, you know, once again, everybody's unique, and I would start somebody out with, you know, maybe