training for fun or training to grow muscle. The difference is simply making sure that you are doing the training that you can recover from and progress with over time. No matter what your training style is, there has to be a degree of progression. If there is not a degree of progression, you are probably not making any progress. When I just did stuff for fun, the progress just wasn't anywhere near close to what it is now. I did that for a couple of years of my training and I made very, very little progress. It was fun. I loved it, but it led to very little results when it came to building muscle or even developing in strength because we was constantly battered. Is a Widowmaker set really going to be the best thing for growing muscle? It's going to be fun. It's going to be fun and you're going to learn something from it, too. It's always in those sets that we really realize what we truly were capable of, you know? Come on. Let's go. Yeah. You need to scale things back if you want to actually grow muscle. Unfortunately, it's the boring repetitiveness that leads to the greatest results. The more you progress, the more advanced you get, the more dialed in you have to get to keep progressing. The clear differences between people that do it for fun and people that actually do it for results is having a clear vision, a clear goal, and a clear plan. The people that go in the gym for fun, they often have no idea what they're going to do. They just turn up and do stuff. When you turn up and do stuff at random, you've got no ways of tracking your progression. If you have no ways of tracking your progression, it will be much harder to actually see progress within your lift because you're probably doing random exercises every single time you come in the gym. I feel like a lot of our people, they do have a set plan, but then it's getting into that workout, I think, where things don't align with actually growing. Isn't the things that it takes to grow and reaching your goals, isn't that really the most rewarding? That's the most fun to me. It absolutely is. Why would you want to go in the gym and not see progress? That's no idea fun to me.