 I have also realized that I cannot do this forever. Yes. There will come a time where I cannot do this anymore at this level. Yep. And I truly believe people take bodybuilding for granted. Of course. Because there will come a time guys where you get to a certain point, guess what? You can't do the cycles anymore. You can't do the preps anymore. You can't do the preps anymore. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't do it. Maybe you won't I am mutant.com and you can get your mind FK. I took a half a scoop of this this morning. This stuff is legit. Of course, all the gear, everything else that Ron says, what's your favorite dusty? What's your go to for mutant? If you could only pick one supplement. Mind FK, not even close. Okay. Pretty much. They pretty much came out with that because of me. Nice. Cause you needed it. They're like, dusty's pretty slow mentally. I don't like, I don't like stims. I don't, I can't, I don't know how you feel. But like all these products have 400 milligrams of caffeine and I'm supposed to train legs. I can't breathe. My heart rate is through the roof and I haven't started my set yet. And I talked to Jim and he was asking me like, why I never talk about it. I said, I don't like it. And fast forward, you know, seven, eight, nine months. And he's like, I got something for you. And there it was. Well, you love it. I love it. A lot of people are enjoying this product. And of course, remember your codes, big Ron or dusty to get all the savings. And to keep these guys employed and to keep the show, you know, advertising with mutant. We appreciate you guys. Also to thank you to everybody from Patreon. You guys are fricking awesome. Um, we've got Cuba with us. So we are definitely going to talk about all sorts of stuff, including a bunch of training talk. Uh, our, we have a bunch of questions. We'll probably rapid fire through a lot of these. The number one thing I wanted to ask you guys was a question that I had gotten from one of our listeners. Uh, Oh, that's right. I'm sorry, dusty. Let me ring my bell. Oh, like, share, subscribe and comment and ring the bell. Oh, Ron is needed. He's needed. Cool. He is. He is. Anyway, I was just trying to get into the topic, get into the show. I like it, but I got, if I don't ring my bell, people will absolutely leave. I understand. And they're here for the bell subscribers. Then we were really just talking to ourselves. So we appreciate you guys. All right. I'm going to turn it over. You guys lead topic though, is continuing to progress. This guy says that, uh, he's been stuck installed out for two weeks on his incline bench. Um, and both of you guys are just heavy believers in progressive overload. You've both made an incredible amount of progress using it. I want to hear from the two of you, because I'm sure that you'll have some overlap, but I'm sure there'll be some differences. How do you break through this plateau? Before we begin, I think we missed a little bit of topic that you guys actually spoke about at the start of the show is why dusty doesn't like stimulants before training. And have you realized at the beginning of your training career, you was always able to have crazy high stims and have good sessions. Right. Yep. And then as you got stronger, as you got more in tune with your training and as you got further ahead, high stims completely ruined your workouts. For me personally, Oh, for sure. I used to be able to take effort during before training and like have amazing sessions. Right. And then it got to the point where I actually learned how to train hard and I got a little bit stronger. And every single time I had a stim, not only I would be completely wrecked for about a week after training legs, but I would almost always almost hurt myself because I would get so revved up. I would completely lose control and I would just end up squatting to death and end up doing something silly. So guys, if you are using stimulants, use them, do not abuse them. And 10, nine times out of 10, I promise you taking less, you will probably have much more productive workouts because you will actually be able to focus and you will actually have more sustained energy throughout your sessions, as opposed to just having a massive adrenaline dump within that one working set. And then guess what? Your entire session then is over because you are literally like stuck in mud. That's the only way you can describe it. Trying to get through your sessions after you've had that massive adrenaline dump from having way too much stim. So for me, and I think that's worth sharing when it comes to caffeine intake and overall stinger intake, I do feel like there's the guidelines of like milligram per kilogram. I think that's valid for like smaller females, but I really think there's a lot of merit to trying to keep it on the lower side. And if you are going to use caffeine, try and spread it out into smaller servings spread across like maybe two servings as opposed to just having one hit. I'm not sure what your take is on it. No, I mean, for me, it's really simple. I feel like a people, first off, they're taking a pre-workout as if it's the, like, like if they didn't have their pre-workout, they're not going to the gym. Yeah. Yeah. And it's, it's like, no, then those are the guys you see pacing around the gym before their sets. And all I see is wasted energy. Yeah. Like if you walked up to me in the gym and I'm getting ready for like a heavy set, but I just, just finished my last warmup. I can literally chat with you for a second. I can even make a joke with you. I don't need to dial in until I touch the bar. Like I don't waste any energy other than that. And then you just, you lock in while you're touching the bar. And then same thing. When I finished that rep and I rack it, shut everything back down, bring the breathing back to where it's supposed to be, calm your body off, get your mindset. And I just, I found I couldn't do it with my heart pounding through the roof, me wanting to run around the gym. It affected breathing on the higher rep sets. You know, I mean, I see guys all the time and I mean, I got clients and I know you do this too, Cuba. You like you, you see guys and they send their training videos and you go, your oxygen is why that set ended, not your strength. And that's a way to leave reps on the table because of a stim you took before you trained. And I'm like, you leave one or two reps on the table, every workout for 52 weeks. Trust me, you've lost possible gains that, that cannot be matched. And you got to keep in mind, those stims do not help you progress in muscle mass. They just don't. True. Not only that too. What about the post-workout when you're still all stimmed up and now you're supposed to be getting into the rest, digest, eating food, you know, recovering. Yeah. That's where a lot of guys are like, I can't eat after I train. I'm like, well, of course you can't. Yeah. Or two hours to get their stomach to calm down because they're nauseous between the stims and the workout. And it's like, yeah, there's only so many hours you're awake in a day. I can't have you needing a two hour gap before that next meal and on and on. I could go on for days on this topic. And I, I understand why they're popular. When you're a kid, you pop a bunch of stims, you're amped, you're ready to ram through a wall. And it's like, cool. But the problem is you don't need to run through one wall. You got to run through five of them. And you ran out of gas after you hit the first one. How many times do you have clients say to you? I didn't get pumped that session. Oh God. And then you're like, well, no shit. You were stimmed out of your tits. And guess what? If you take stims before you try and step on stage, guess what's going to happen? You will sweat and you will not get a pump. So you want to have a great session? Avoid high stims. You want to get a good pump before stage time? No high caffeine or high stims before you get on stage, guys. Do not make that rookie error. Yeah. All right. So this topic continuing to progress, you know, dude gets stuck for the last two weeks. I guess I want to ask you guys first, if you're, if you're log booking, how, uh, how many times are you going to hit a sticking point and not progress before you change something? Is that first week, the second week, third week? How does that work out first? The problem is with log booking and people saying they're stalled of just back of two sessions is simply patience. Your muscle takes time to adapt. Your muscle takes time to adapt. It's not possible to see substantial strength gains after you have been on a certain machine over a longer period of time. Initially, let's say you start a new exercise, right? Let's say Dusty hasn't been deadlifting for six months. He's gone back into a deadlift. The first eight weeks of his deadlifts, I can promise you, Dusty's going to make ridiculous progress with strength. Yeah. That's, that's not necessarily Dusty getting bigger. That's, that's Dusty regaining a lot of skill in the exercise. That's Dusty regaining a lot of neurological drive. So mentally being able to get under that load again and being able to get more proficient at that exercise, right? Yeah. After that period of time, then Dusty will reach the peak weight that he normally hits. And then it's going to be a battle every single week, week by week. He might have three weeks of lifting the same weight. And then guess what? Week number four, he might add five pounds to the bar. Match reps. Week number five, he might get an extra rep with the same weight. The biggest issue I often see with clients and people in general on Instagram is lack of patience. You need to give it time. Just because you've stalled in two weeks, that doesn't mean anything. It could have been a lack of hydration that day. Yeah. It could have been you got a little bit less sleep. It could have been a bit more stress. It could have been even something as little as, guess what? You didn't take enough rest before you sat. Yeah. There's the other thing that I always hammer home to guys. And I know you're on this too, Koo, is you can have a better set with the same weight, with the same reps. Absolutely. And know you had a better set. Like, yeah, no, no, but I didn't, I didn't drop that last three inches in the hole like I did last week. Like my log book used to be full of notes. Like, how did it feel? I mean, you know, these days in deadlift to me is the one that I always go back to where sometimes you walk in the gym and you put the 135 on the bar and you pull it. But when you're like, have I ever done this before? It's just wonky and your rhythms off and your legs are locked out early. And other days, first rep with 135, you go, this is going to be a good day. Like, it just feels like you've been warming up for a week and we haven't touched in a while. The other thing I would touch on for my specific training is I never hit like an incline bench two weeks in a row. It was every third session. And I feel like that's a line where it can, you know, your training decides that whether or not that's how you're doing it. But for me, if I have a incline Smith, a low incline Smith and like a hammer incline press, well, then when I started that incline Smith, I have two other workouts of chest before I come back to that incline Smith. And that gives me more chance to actually move up. Whereas if you're one of these guys that's training an incline Smith on Monday every week, there's not a lot of time between those. So it's like, of course you're not going to progress. And then the big one that Cuba talked about, but didn't even go into depth on is guys. If, if you're constantly progressing, then by now I should be doing, you know, 1200 pound deadlifts for six. Eddie hole. You know what I'm saying? Like, because there comes a line where you're like, okay, what are we going to do? Or if you get really strong, I know for me on hacks and stuff, Ron was actually the one that pulled me aside. He's like, dude, you're at the point where the risk to reward is out of control. Now you've got to start thinking, can I slow the negatives down to force me to go a little lighter? Can I raise the reps up to force me a little lighter? Like, because when you, when you're strapping plates on top of the plate, so they don't fall off. Cause there's no more room. You got to think a little bit like it's designed to be used for very strong people. And it's going to hold eight, nine, 10 plates. If that's not enough anymore, you really got to ask yourself, like, is it, do I really need 24 plates on a hack squat? Or do I need to find a better way to make 20 plates work? I have to agree. I have to agree. Couple more, a couple more points to consider is one of them being, did you actually do it as first exercise or have you had a different exercise before? Did you progress that exercise? Because let's say if he's benching as exercise number two, and he's done a first exercise that was a different exercise, like even a cable fly, whatever pec deck, right? If he has progressed his load and reps on the pec deck, if he has matched the second exercise, that is a progression in itself. Yep. So you need to take that consideration. Now, I personally think a variable that is very much overlooked is people get to a certain point where they do get stronger. They get more accurate with training and they start to get greedy with progression. They start to log, log shit reps, pardon my French, but they start to log reps that are just not really complete reps. Yeah. And then they try to beat them following week. It's just not going to happen. No. Yep. I used to always write Cuba, like plus two, meaning, all right, I got eight reps and then I got two reps, but that, that tells me like eight was the number. Yeah. But I, but I chose to not leave those two sloppy reps on the table, but I didn't log 10 because 10 is not true. Mate. And it's like, no, no. If you can get a ninth clean rep next week and maybe you rack it, you're like, that's it. Like that was perfect. And you rack that way. That's still one more rep than last time. And people don't do that. They, you know, and I know I was guilty of this early in my career. You, you fall in love with that log book. Like youngsters fall in love with the scale. Yeah. And you're like, you start looking. It's like you watch the two videos side by side. And you're like, well, if we were counting the negative, you didn't get stronger. You, you took a one count off of your negative on every rep and you heaved up two more reps. It's like, if anything, I would say you lost, you went down, like you got sloppier. Like that's why Dante is so hammered on the control. Like he used to say four count negative, because if that four count becomes a three count, you didn't get stronger. You just got sloppier. Absolutely. There's so much value in this. I love this. I love this topic conversation because this is, it's so simple on paper, but it's so, so hard for people to grasp because unfortunately progressing your lifts is hard. It requires self-control. It requires patience and discipline that most people so sadly do not have. People want everything right now. Yep. And unfortunately when people want everything right now, guess what? They start making mistakes. They start chopping and changing exercises. They start to basically do shit reps that are just not there. So stay locked in, stay patient. As Dante preachers have control, keep your reps standardized using the same or similar control with every single set. That way, at least you have a quantifiable measure of progression. It's the only way to do it. And look, I always say this. If you're a genetic fucking freak, right? It doesn't matter what you do. You are going to grow. But if you are not a genetic freak, you are likely watching this right now. And guess what? You will get to a point where you need to be more self-aware. You need to start using your brain. You need to practice more self-control and discipline with your diet, training, and drugs. Yeah. I think the self-awareness, which I know is another topic, is an area that people miss because when you're thinking about progression in the gym, obviously that's important. And we're firm believers that that correlates to progression in your physique. But you have to make sure that's true. You have to watch. Like, there's been times, I mean, my squatting early in the career, Kubel, was out of control. Yeah. I could squat a house. You know, six plates aside for reps was no problem. And the whole gym stops. Instagram or YouTube or whatever I was doing, I was exploding. I do it for four or five months and I look at my legs and I'm like, okay, I'm getting stronger. My legs aren't getting better. I have to scrap a movement that I love doing. That puts on a great show, which at the time I'm making money off of that. So it's important because I have to have the self-awareness to go cool, but it's not correlating to the thing I'm actually trying to do, which is put on muscle mass in my quads. It's not happening. I watched the videos back and I go, oh, I'm squatting with my hips and glutes. So yes, it's powerful, but it's not helping me, you know, and that's another phase of that self-awareness where you've got to be watching and saying, what's the feedback? You know, like this guy, if you're still feeling fatigued or if the other movements on your, on your incline day are going up, you're fine. You can't pick one thing. It's like, that's like saying you had a bad, I mean, we've all been there where you have a workout and one set is off and then the rest of your workouts. Fantastic. You wouldn't say that was a horrendous workout. No. You'd say, oh, for whatever reason today, the barbell incline wasn't there. I don't know why, but when I moved on to my high incline flies, I crushed them. And you note that also like, Hey, maybe I crushed the high incline flies because there wasn't a lot there on that incline I did before. So don't, don't be worried next week when I crush incline press that this fly probably ain't going to meet this number again. You know, there's a lot more variables. People like to look at their training as like hack squats, as if it's its own thing, nothing else exists. Then they move on to their leg curl as if it's its own thing. It's like, Oh guys, the whole workout is one. And you got to step back at that 10,000 feet view and go, was the entire workout better or not? Yeah. Not one individual thing. Cause you could have one great lift and the whole workout is shit. You can't go. Yeah. I deadlifted. Awesome. It's like, but everything else you did was shit. That wasn't a good workout. It was a good deadlift day. Yeah. Hey, perspective's huge. You want to go to your, that topic we mentioned before the show, you know, cause I feel like that really ties in with what Dusty's talking about here about kind of like the, the self-awareness aspect of bodybuilding. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, look, it takes a lot of self-awareness to understand what's going on, not just with your training, but even with the process as a whole. Right. And I feel like at this moment in time, a lot of people on the internet are getting paralyzed by studies. They are getting bombarded with all this different information. Right. And they lack self-awareness to try different things for themselves and see what they actually like themselves. Because I can promise you guys, some of these studies are great. They can give you a great reference point. Absolutely. But guess what? They are not going to work for everyone across the board. The volume studies, the fatigue studies, right? Like, some people may need two working sets for a body part in a single session. Some people may need six. The variance between individuals is so, so huge. And we have to understand that these studies are not really done on trained individuals. So, I urge people to have a little bit more self-awareness to understand what they actually feel on the gym floor. When I am training, right? I will try things and I will come to my own conclusions. Yeah. Because I see what feels better for me. Like, the unilateral work, right? There's guys now preaching that you should be incorporating a lot of unilateral work. But it's like, I've been doing unilateral work, or for my last specifically, for the past four years. Because guess what? When I did both arms at a time, I got nothing from it. I felt nothing. I felt bicep. That's it. So, I had enough self-awareness to be able to pivot, and not just do what everyone else is doing. Pivot, stay in my own lane, and do what I feel like works for me. And I feel like, at the moment, people are blinded by some of the information that is coming from the world of theory, as opposed to actual practical, the best evidence, the best evidence that we have, is the evidence that we see, with our own training, our own results, and our client results. And the reason why, I feel like there should be, a little bit of a, a little bit more understanding of, what actual bodybuilders and coaches preach, when it comes to training, when it comes to the process, because, I have not just worked with 30 guys over a course of six months study. Right. I've worked, I've coached, like, I've competed since I was 16 years old. I'm 30 years old now. I've coached since I was 17 years old. I'm 30 years old. That's 13 years, of having real evidence, in front of me. Right. Yep. I say that all the time, man. So, I do feel like, people would benefit, so much more from actually listening, to the guys that have been there, and done it. And look, you don't have to follow it all. You don't have to follow, Dusty's approach, like gospel. You don't have to follow mine, or Scott's. What you can do is, take the information in, put it into practice, see what you like, for yourself. And most importantly, right, what matters the most, is your ability to progress. If your lifts are progressing, green light, keep fucking going, don't change a thing. Your lifts are progressing. Your physique's changing. If you are not making progress, that is when you need to fix something. If you are turning up to the gym, you are not seeing, lifts progressing upwards, you are not seeing your physique change, something has to change, within your process. It could be nutrition, it could be recovery, it could be training, it could be effort, it could be lack of sleep, it could be lifestyle, it could be stress, it could be all of these, different things, that may need to be fixed, for you to be able to move forward. But, if you do not have the self-awareness, to be able to see, what potentially is the issue, and all you are relying on, is people giving you, these bits of information, on what you need to do, to make optimal progress. You will always be paralysed, and you will always, always leave progress on the table, because you will refuse, to potentially see, another way. Yep. I think that, we talked about this last week, but Sasan was a great example. You know, he went and trained with JP, he's blasting progressive overload, he's growing, all the things are saying green light, but he can feel his body, he can feel his mindset, he can feel his desire, to go to the gym, drifting down. You know? And then he says, this isn't working for me. You know? What's that? I love this log. What's it say? So that's my log book, and it's got, all the notes underneath, on what I need to do better, for the following sessions, and what actually felt good. And, I even have here, one of the notes, from one of the sessions, I've got my numbers written down, and I literally put down, same again, but better. So, I literally, just copied my weights, exactly the same, no load progressions, and I literally put a note down, for that following session, arrow, same again, but better. That's it. That is, that is the way to progress your loads as well. Yeah. Yeah, because you're telling yourself, you don't need to go up next time, for it to be better, but you can execute a little bit better. And that's the part that, it's really difficult to teach, with progressive overload, because, all they're thinking is, one more rep, or one more pound. Yeah. And yes, that's the ultimate goal, in a perfect world, when everything's lined up perfectly, that's what happens. But you've got to be realistic, and I think, you know, like you were saying, Kuba, controlling all variables, before you get to the gym, is enormous. Like, I can't stress this enough, and I, I love the position, that we're in as bodybuilders. Yes, we're genetically better than a lot, in ways of putting on muscle, or whatever it may be, but we have huge holes, compared to the best genetics. Yeah. And because of that, you have to be more organized. Like, I used to just remind myself, these guys are better than you. The only way, you can even stand next to them, without being embarrassed, is to be perfect. So, you know, year round, the things that I hammer home to, to guys that are serious, and really have a way, is like, I've had a bedtime, since I was 22 years old. I go to bed at the same time, I wake up at the same time, I drink the same thing. Like, I drink the exact same amount of fluid, every single workout, before I go in, the same meals, the same, I mean, I used to always say, if you want to kill me, follow me today, because tomorrow, I will be in the exact same place, at the exact same time, and that's the perfect day to do it. You know, there's no variables, that are out of control, and I think that's an area, people miss, they wake up, they're running late, or they hit the snooze button, which I think should be against the law, all these other things, and then like, I don't know why, I had a bad workout, and I'm like, well, I could probably look at your, evening last night, into your morning today, and tell you exactly why. Yeah. The big thing I'm hearing from you guys, here too, is patience. I think that's a, another, like, critical factor, that goes along, with all of this, and what you're, you're saying, Kuba, I think, about where, where, you know, the real experience comes from, yeah, there are, I've seen it, you know, I've been, kind of in bodybuilding media, for a decade now, and, there was a time, that people would, listen to everything, that a good bodybuilder, had to say, meaning a guy, who's gained, a ton of muscle, like both of you, and, and even myself, as a light heavyweight competitor, that I'm well ahead, of a lot of other guys, you know, so people want to listen to that, but anymore, yeah, with all the studies, I think that part of it is that, the way social media, has kind of, put things out there, there's an element of, like, don't just listen to that guy, because he's big, and, and I've even seen it, man, in our, like, we'll do reels, Kuba, and like, you and I will put a reel out, and there's always some guy, who finds the reel, who says, oh yeah, well, the only reason, that he actually made that progress, is because he's on steroids, you know, so they're, they're looking to discredit this, but I'm going to be completely honest, here's the deal, is that, you've put on, an incredible amount of muscle mass, more muscle than probably, I would say, you know, 99% of humans, ever will, right, and, and Dusty has as well, and realistically, to a degree, I had, you know, and, if you, if you take what works, from each of us, like you're saying, I think that that's, that's basically, what this channel is about, man, that's why, it's not just me sitting here, talking to people, it's me, and you, and Dusty, and Ron, and everybody else, so that you can kind of like, take the kids, that makes sense to you, and then, you know, apply it to yourself, and I, I personally, man, I think that that's the best way, to, to educate yourself, is take a wide variety of people, who've had success, and figure out, how that applies to you, you know, every single time, I have guys comment this, I just send them, transformations of, of all the natural athletes, I've been working with, and they're like, well, if it's steroids, then why do these guys, that are natural, have just made, incredible progress, I mean, yeah, like, like steroids, do it for you, they don't, trust me, the people that takes, that take the most gear, that make no progress, and they are generally, the smallest, so, no, it's not the gear, it's just lack of your effort, and minerals, that generally leads to less results, and you know what, it's always people that say this, that, generally lack, the effort, to be able to do something themselves, and what they'll do is, they'll look at people, that are making progress, and they'll be like, well, it must be steroids, because, I can't do it, so, you know, it's something that they have to do, geeks. Well, I was going to say, on the patience thing, Scott, something that I read, a long time ago, and I've used it a million times, which is, people overestimate, what can be done in a month, and underestimate, what can be done in a year, so, they don't get what they want in a month, so they make drastic changes, and you're like, but you needed a year, to really see, yeah, I mean, not just a year, but it takes, I really believe it takes a decade, to build, oh yeah, unless you're a complete freak, it takes a decade, to build, a good physique, it really does, well, I mean, I did, Scott, on your point, my first show, I was 186 pounds, and I was in okay shape, my last show, I was 270 pounds, and I was peeled out of my mind, yeah, so, arguably 100 pounds, over the course of my career, but that was made, one meal, and one rep at a time, all right, what do you say, we do something fun here, we gotta, we gotta lighten the mood, a little bit, don't you think, Ron would have lighten the mood, by now Dusty, what do you think, or I would have gotten pissed off, one of the two, one of the two, what do we do to, what do we do to have some fun here, Dusty, how can we lighten the, you know, bring the, it's just bodybuilding feels, to the podcast, sorry guys, it's me, it's me, no, no, no, we threw like, three back and back, serious like, hard hitting, hardcore bodybuilding questions at you, so you just answered, right, it's horrible, because see, now you've got me in this mindset, where, there's, I'm not in a fun mindset, I'm in, I'm in the focused mindset, Scott, because, this topic, and I'm gonna, I'm gonna completely ignore, what you just said, but get back to, the self awareness thing, because I had this conversation, with a client this morning, and I think it's important, for a lot of you guys listening, so I wanna touch on it, when we talk about self awareness, let's throw away, the depth of training, and all these things, I think one thing, people need to understand, on self awareness, is, that bodybuilding, is not for everyone, and I say that, because, I had a, I had a client, who, he shot me an email, this morning, and he said, hey, I'm, I think I'm having, some mental health things, and he goes on, and on, and on, and I emailed him back, and I said, I mean this with love, you're full of shit, oh, I said, here's the real problem, it's not worth it to you, to be on a diet, where you have to execute every day, it's not worth it to you, to, have to go to the gym, and log your stuff, it's not worth it, to, want to go out, with your wife, and you can't, because you're on a meal plan, or whatever it is, and I said, here's the thing, shut up, sorry to yell, usually, so usually, Ron will do enough talking, that Dusty just has his, I've got a guy, spraying my yard, but anyways, the, the point of the whole situation, is this, it's not weak, to realize, that something's not for you, you know, like I, so I told him, I said, listen, I know how to make, take my business, from where it's at, which is very successful, and I can make it a, over a million dollar, a year thing, I know how to do it, it's not worth it to me, what I have to give up, the things I have to do, to make a million dollars, a year, I'm not willing to do, so I just go, I'm not willing, he tried to squeeze that in, as much as, as fast as he could, before the dogs went crazy, again, I know, bless him, now, bodybuilding is extremely hard, as itself, right, if you really love bodybuilding, and it's your passion in life, it's going to be, all consuming, it's going to be, extremely challenging, so, you need to ask yourself, why are you doing this, what is it about bodybuilding, that's going to fulfill you, because if your body, if bodybuilding is not fulfilling for you, guess what, you don't have to do it, on a competitive level, no, you don't have to force yourself, to do it, because, Dusty, I'm pretty sure, you guys felt the same, when you was bodybuilding, I don't feel like, I'm making sacrifices, no, it would be a sacrifice, to not do it, it would be a sacrifice, to cheat on my diet, it would be a sacrifice, to miss my meals, it would be a sacrifice, to miss my training, so, perceptions, everything, it's like, I cannot have, a bad session, do you know why, I'm in the gym, training, no matter what happens, I am doing, what I love, and guess what, after what Dusty, has gone through, I can promise you, he will never have, a bad session, ever again in his life, because, he's fortunate, to be, in the gym, so, perception guys, if any of you, listening to this right now, and you're struggling in prep, or the offseason, and you're finding it hard, you've got to remember, it's really a privilege, to do this, it really is, it's supposed, to be a passion, it's supposed, to be something, that is fulfilling, and it's supposed, to be something, that adds to your life, not takes away from it, if anything, guys, if you feel like, anything takes away, from your life, reconsider your goals, because, bodybuilding, should only add to your life, it should make you happy, it shouldn't make you miserable, it should not, make you feel, in any way negative, the second it does me, guess what, I'm not fucking doing it no more, because that's not why, I bodybuild, and look, don't get me wrong, there is phases, where you feel like, fuck, this is hard, this is getting challenging, but, then, you realise, this is the time now, to step up, and overcome, right, and you feel even better, off the back of that, when you complete that day, so, guys, I urge you to, have that self awareness, like Dusty mentioned, to understand, why you do this, and I, I don't want to see people, put themselves, through hell, because, if you don't love this shit, it's going to be hell for you, it really will, it's funny, Scooby, because I, there was a guy, that was with Mutant, for a long time, and every time he would prep, he would literally post, like, I can't wait for this to be over, and, I literally, I sent him a text, and I said, you should quit bodybuilding, and he was, immediately offended, you know, he's got a great physique, he's like, why would you say that to me, and I said, because this is the best part, like, this is the part, that those of you, the guys that you're competing against, love, like, when I, when I, when I was smoked, and you're walking to the gym, to do your cardio, after a, I mean, I own stores, so, it's a 12 hour day, I've already trained, I've already done everything, I gotta finish my cardio, I remember walking in, and you get on the, on the steps, or whatever you're doing, and it hurts, and you don't want to be there, and then that would fill me with, like, excitement, because I would always think to myself, the other guy is going to slow this down, because he's tired, or the other guy is going to do this, and you'll love this, Kuba, but, every now and then, you know, you're doing your, you're doing your steps, or whatever you're doing, your cardio, I'd be on the step mill, and I'm at like, 25 minutes of a 30 minute session, and I'd think to myself, it probably wouldn't hurt, if I got off now, and then if I said that, I'd make myself do five extra minutes, if I even thought it, I'm like, cool, now it's 35, because fuck you for thinking that, you know, and, and then when you got done, you were irritated with yourself, for thinking of it, and happy with yourself, for saying fine, I'm going to punish myself, for even thinking, that that was an option, and that's an area, that I just don't think you can do, if you don't love this, you know, that pain is what, those of us who do it, actually enjoy, like if you love this, you understand, that those last few weeks, when you're running on fumes, and, and, taking two trips to your truck, to bring the groceries in, feels like a hassle, you're like, how could I not have got this done in one, I have to walk, all the way back out to my truck, and you're like, dude, this is what it's for, this is the fun, so, I just push that, not as a negative to bodybuilding, but in anything you do in life, if, if the hard stuff doesn't excite you, you should really ask yourself, if this is what you want to do, because I promise, that was always what I said, when, when people would say like, oh, when are you going to stop, I said, when I don't love doing it anymore, and now, Kuba, I can tell you like, I mean, I just told my wife this morning, if someone offered me a hundred grand, to get ready for a show, don't matter what you do, just get in shape, I'd go, I can make a hundred grand easier than that, I don't want to. Yeah, and, and not just that Dusty, but, you've been there and done it, right? Yeah. You have given your all, and, understanding I have now, and another perception shift I have, and this is why, it's just, everything just feels easy, and, I, listen, I look forward every day, to waking up, taking my gear, doing my steps, doing my training, eating my meals, getting in bed, at half past eight, this is the reason why I asked you today, if I could do it an hour early, because, I need, I need to be in bed for half eight, now, that's my schedule, right? Yeah. So, again, there's a schedule guys. And the thing is, if I was to do this an hour later, I missed that hour of winding down, and then I can't sleep for hours. So, we don't want that. I don't want to be responsible for that either. Listen, I look forward to all of this shit, right? Yeah. And, I have also, realized that, I cannot do this forever. Yes. I, there will come a time, where, I cannot do this anymore, at this level. Yep. And, I truly believe, people take bodybuilding for granted. Of course. Because, there will come a time, guys, where, you get to a certain point, guess what? You can't do the cycles anymore. You can't do the preps anymore. Your body won't do it. It's time to hang it up. The last thing I ever want to do, is get to that time, and then half stuff in the back of my mind, and think, what if, what if I pushed harder? What if I did that extra posing round? Mm-hmm. Yeah. 100% man. Listen, and do you know what happens as well? When people get to that point, and they haven't really given their all, they never completely quit. They always try and make these comebacks, right? They're half retired, half not retired. I don't want to be that guy. When, when, when time is right, I want to be like, right, I've done, I've given my all, and I think, I will be much more comfortable then, to live their life like Dusty does now, and I can guarantee you now, I can probably see, that's probably why Dusty's so comfortable doing what he's doing now. And he, it doesn't have that age. He doesn't have that age now anymore. You know, when you look back at a prep, guys, and I know you guys have both been here, I used to laugh, because you're backstage, and I used to like, fall asleep backstage, and I'd see guys pacing around, and, you know, how do you think it's going to go, and they're, they're, they're just so in it. And I remember, I was interviewed one time, and they said, oh, you seem really calm. Do you, do you know you're going to win? And I said, what I know is that I won't lose. And they're like, oh, so you're going to win? And I said, no, no, I won't lose, which means, you can beat me, but I can't lose, because there's nothing I would change about my prep. So, whatever I have is what I have, and that's why I'm confident. That's why I'm comfortable. And the result means nothing to me. It doesn't matter, because if I get beaten, then someone was better than me, and that's great. That's going to happen. But these guys that get lost in the, you know, Kuba, I've talked about this a million times, but my favorite prep of my entire career was my worst placing. It was the hardest prep. I achieved my goal of being peeled inside out of my head. I told Chris before the show, before we started the prep, I said, all I care about is I'm the most shredded person in the entire show. Six weeks out, me probably would have won the show. Show day me took 10th, because we lost muscle. Like, we just kept going. We were in tunnel vision. I remember after the show, I came out and Chris is like, he's shaking his head. He's like, ah, sorry. I said, for what? That was awesome. Like, I would, I slayed it. That was brutal. I'm peeled. And I don't care. And I think that that's the, the line is comfort comes in knowing you did everything in your control. And that's what makes you satisfied. And just so you guys understand, if you compete in 10 shows, I promise you'll lose more than you win. Hmm. So if the only thing that solidifies success is winning, you're about to have a really rough bodybuilding career. Yeah. Mate, Dusty, I could not agree anymore because if this was about winning for me right now, I may as well retire now. Right. Like, I may as well just hang it up the day I won my pro card because it's not about winning the shows. It's about winning the day as hunters today. But to me, I take the wins in my day to day process. Mate, every day when I wake up and I get my shit done, I have my little targets for the day. And I like to tick off, right? My posing, make sure it's done with effort. My little steps, my meal timing. These are small little wins every single day that I take. Yeah. If that's getting done, guess what? I'm stepping forward. I'm making progress. That's a win for me. It's like, I'm never going to be best bodybuilder on stage. Like, I'm competing with my clients in pro division this year in open, right? And guess what? My client's going to smoke me because he's a monster. But, guess what? When it comes to the process, I promise you, I will be the best bodybuilder that steps on that stage when it comes to the process of bodybuilding. And I take, I take a lot of pride in that. And guess what? To me, that means more than winning a show. It really does. And then hopefully my client will win a show anyway. So it's a win-win anyway. It's a win-win. It's a win-win. You got like two horses in the race. You're cheating. Yeah. Quite literally. Anyway, on the fun topic, right? On the fun side, Dusty, tell me, and I'm curious on that one. Tell me some of your fondest memories from competing. Like, listen, it's just bodybuilding, right? So I want to know some of your fondest memories from competing across any of the shows. Just give me like your top three. Yeah. So number, number one is, is stuff that no one will ever see, which was getting to shows about three days early and hanging in the room with a Cito and just going through the process. I knew it. I knew it. Just talking shop and, and realizing that he was a complete lunatic because he would have eight clients in the show, five other guys getting ready for other shows in a week or two. He's not sleeping. And I could literally see, I don't know that anyone loves bodybuilding more than Cito. He doesn't need this at all. He doesn't need the money. It's purely passion. And man, when I think back to the memories, it's all the stuff in the room, all the fun stuff. It's waking up the morning of the show and looking in the mirror and going, Holy shit. We nailed it, you know? So that's number one. Number two, and you'll love this one, Kuba is, um, so I won my pro card and I knew for me winning the pro card was the end of the line. Like I was very aware, like you're not winning shows. You're not going to be in the top five, but you're going to bring it. So I reached out to Jose. He was in prep. And I said, Hey, I need you to do the, the open class of the Phoenix pro. It's going to be my first show. And I want you to do it with me. And he was like, done. So he flew to Arizona, came out there. We spent the last couple of days hanging out, training, doing our thing. Guy Sissonino came out. That'd be cool. Um, he absolutely demolished me in every way possible. I never even got compared to him, of course. And it was just awesome. Like the fact that a true hall of fame bodybuilder did a show. Cause I requested it. I'm like, Hey, you're already going to be in prep. Can you just do this one and do it as an open competitor? He should have won. He took second, but, um, it was just awesome. You know, like having that and getting to share that weekend with him and, and just walking through the process. I mean, I will remember we got pictures backstage hitting all the shots together and it looked like a, a shorter father with his, with his taller son, which was me because, uh, there wasn't a single pose. I beat him in, or even was remotely close and it was awesome. But that was the second one. And then, um, I think the, the best memory I have, uh, the third best memory I have is the first year I did junior nationals, Cuba. Um, I won, no one really knew who I was. I won that show. I won the class. And then I went to the USA's and Chris said, listen, we're just gonna, my body was on fire. We couldn't do cardio. We were, I mean, I think two days before the show, I was eating six slices of toast with breakfast. I mean, we were just doing anything to stay full and I was real heavy. And I weighed in on a Thursday and they take your pictures at the show, uh, at the weigh-ins and the picture I have, I'm paste white, I'm watery as hell. And that picture went up on the internet at the time. There was a big boards time. So it went all over the internet. Like he couldn't hold it. He's going to get smoked, you know? And, um, so that all went up and then I got home from weigh-ins and Chris was like, all right, let's back the water down. Now we had been blasting it. And he's like, take a half a diazide now. So I took a half and then we just continued through the day. I took another half. And then in the middle of the night, I was up all night. I mean, I was pissing nonstop. I think on my fifth trip to the bathroom, we had one of those bathrooms where it was like a hallway of a bathroom. When on the right was where the toilet was. I came out from like my fifth time pissing in the middle of the night. And I kind of paused at the door and I was like, I wonder what I look like. I have my tan on now. So I flipped the light on. I turned, I just hit like a, a hands class, most muscular. I went, Oh shit. Yes. Turn the light off. Went to sleep. I woke up the next morning. I stepped on the scale. I lost 17 pounds that night. Wow. And I was just nuts. Were you, were you shocked by that? Like, were you surprised? Like, did you, did you kind of expect like, I might not be my best for this one based off of how you know, cause I had Chris and I just never, I never thought with Chris. Okay. Just, I didn't have to like, we did the work again. Like we were talking about a minute ago, we did everything. And I knew he had it under control. It's probably, and I would sleep like a rock because once you get to a show, like all other stresses are gone. The work's done. I'm not working on my business. I'm just in show mode. I woke up in the morning. I hit one shot. We took a picture. I forwarded it to Dante. I'm like, put that on the internet. I want to quiet the world. And he posted that thing. And, and, um, I beat Steve Kuklo that night and got fifth place at my first pro qualifier. And I was like, I beat a lot of guys who were better than me that day. Yeah. So yeah, those were fun. Those are definitely the ones when you look back and you're like, Oh man, and then of course, you know, this, some of the workouts with your friends are actually the best part. Yeah. You know, you look back and you're like, yeah, but remember when we trained that one day and we just did this dumb shit and it was awesome. Like I, I tell people this all the time, Coop. And I think some of it's from nearly dying. I'm like, you guys aren't aware of the day. Yeah. You know, like when you go to the gym, when you walk in the door, you should be like, Holy shit. I'm a guy, whether it's after work or whatever you're doing that has the ability physically and financially to spend time in the gym and work on my body. Cause I want to like that all by itself is amazing. And I don't think people realize that like same thing with dieting. Like I, I hate, hate when people compare a prep to like going to war. I'm like, are you out of your mind? I said, so I had somebody asked me that one time. They're like, man, you really suffered for this prep. And I'm like, I didn't suffer. Yeah. I didn't eat a lot, but let me go tell a guy who's homeless about how sad it is that I ate 70. 30 ounces of meat today. Yeah. I'm starving. Like, are you out of your mind? There's people like my, my, uh, my second wife was from Iraq and she told me a story that always stuck to me that when they lived there, they were there during the Gulf War and everything. When her mom would make this dish that was rice and meat and everything, every kid got one bite of meat. Wow. So they would eat the whole meal and save that bite for the end. Yeah. And then eat it like it was a prize. Yeah. And they were so happy. And I'm thinking, and you have the audacity to say you're suffering, eating 70 ounces of meat in your air conditioned home, on your grill, shut your mouth. So listen, I appreciate that. And of course I recognize that I used to use the word suffering and I used it because it's like, you know, you are like, it's hard. Bodybuilding is not easy. And when you're pushing to be extremely lean, you know, you are challenging yourself to a great degree. And I used the word suffering. Like the more, you know, there was like the saying that people usually say, the more you suffer, the better you're going to look kind of thing. Yeah. And so I would push, but I worked that. I, it was Scott Stevenson that said something to me one day. Cause I said something about like, you know, really suffering now or something like that. He was like, you know, your suffering is not the right word because suffering is done to you. You can be in discomfort, but you're not suffering because you have a choice. And I thought about it. I was like, you know what? Yeah. I was like, you know what? I'm going to work. And I never used that word again. That was like 2015. And from that point forward, I never used the word suffering for, you know, in the future. The key reminds me that there's a difference between, and I'm going to use the word. There's a difference between suffering for something you love and suffering for something you don't love. So for me, it was a privilege to air quote suffer for bodybuilding. But if you said to me today, like, Hey, I want you to suffer by running a marathon. Well, that's suffering. I don't want to do. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a whole different thing. So we're running a marathon because we are making you, you know what I mean? If I could walk a marathon, I'd be impressed. So I think that that's the, the, the key, you know, and I know it sounds silly. I'm sure there's people that are like, Oh, you guys are getting hung up on words. But I think if you change your perspective, things get easier. Perspective is everything. Yeah. It's not just perfect. It's not just perspective, but self affirmation. It's huge. Yeah. Whenever, whenever I feel like things get harder, I will quite literally speak to myself and I will be like, this is how you should feel. This is good. Yeah. This is, this is, this is when you know it works. Like, if you, again, are self aware enough to recognize these moments and you use the right language, just using the right language about how you feel is going to make you instantly feel better. Yeah. Like I choose to do this and I'm grateful to do what I love every day. Yep. And I promise you guys, the difference in your mood and energy levels, it's almost uplifting. And look, to some of you, this might sound cheesy, but to me, it would sound cheesy until I actually put it into practice. Yeah. And ever since I've put it into practice, I cannot tell you the difference. Like if I'm in the gym and I'm not feeling as fired up for the sets, I'll literally, I will speak to myself quietly. I'm not, not quite vocally. Like no one else knows he's doing this. Nobody else knows that. But even, do you know what? Even before the sets, like I will tell myself, like, this is light. This feels easy. And I will literally have some self affirmation before I actually go into the sets. And guess what? A hundred percent out of 10 out of 10, I will always perform better. Always. I bet. I've had people and I've done it myself, right. A gratitude list. If you can find, you know, like, because sometimes to you, like you're talking to somebody, maybe somebody you work with and you can just tell they're having a bad attitude. And, and I've noticed this in my own life. It's beyond bodybuilding too. Like this isn't something I learned in bodybuilding. This is something I learned from therapy years ago and, you know, 12 step. But if you see, and I like doing it with paper and pen, you could do it on your phone, right out of a digital list, but like what are, and apply it to bodybuilding, write out five things that you are grateful for today for bodybuilding. And, you know, when you go through and you write those things out, it's, it, it's not hard to come up with five. Like you could challenge yourself and do 10, but I mean, some of them are like to have the finances, to be able to do this, to have the know-how, to afford a coach. Like there's all these things, have family that supports you. And when you write those things out and you think about it for a minute, it's really hard to feel crappy and have a bad attitude after that, you know? Yep. Yep. I actually use my, I actually use my logbook for it. And I do have a whiteboard. Yeah. I use my logbook and I actually write in a logbook and I have a whiteboard that I write, write it on. And even what I tell myself every morning, it's like the, the, the perspective has shifted on the way I prep even now. And it's like, I am prepping. Like I am winning. Like I'm going to win. I'm prepping. Like it's my, it's, it's my Mr. Olympia. That's what I'm prepping for. So that's the approach I'm actually taking. So everything I do in the day, I do it with intention of winning. And that is the attitude that I feel like for me brings out the best in me because in past, I have had a bit of a defeatist mindset and going to preps and going to shows thinking there's always going to be guys that are better than me, bigger than me because I'm not big enough yet. I'm not this. I'm not that. Now, instead, I think about this from a perspective of, I am going to win and I am going to take the approach. Like this is my Olympia. This is my everything. So the way you execute when you have that mindset is just completely different. I promise you guys, like, I have always, this is my Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I've said that to clients. I had a client that one time said to me, he goes, well, I mean, I know this isn't a big deal for you because you prep guys for the Olympia and stuff. And I go, Oh, no. Every show is the Olympia. Yeah. This is your Olympia. My first show was my first Olympia. My first overall was me winning my first Olympia because at that moment in time, that was the biggest peak I could, I was ready for. And it was a huge win. You know, you can, you could take a ton from this and you can also, if I can offer a piece of advice in the negative way for myself is being present. I chased down a pro card for four years at the national level. It took me four years to win. And after prejudging, I knew I was winning. And I already started thinking about how I was going to get ready for my, my first pro show and the changes I needed to make. And when they announced me the winner and I got my pro card, we went to dinner and Jose looked at me across the table. He flew in just to watch me win. And he said, you don't seem that excited. And I wasn't. And that in hindsight is brutal. To know that I wasn't in the moment enough to even enjoy something that I worked. I mean, not even four years. It was longer than that, but four years of trying to turn pro. And I wasn't even in the moment to soak it up. I was like, yeah, well now I'm the worst pro bodybuilder there is. And that was the way my brain worked. And, you know, if I could change anything in my life, it would have been my accident would have happened 10 years earlier. And I would have been very, very aware of how awesome all of those little steps were along the way. And, and how valuable they are, because even though I can look back at them now with clarity, I can't relive them. No. And really soak up what took place. Yeah. Man, that hits hard. That hits hard. It really does. Well, you got a lot more of those left. So you get to. Yeah, I know. I know. Listen, do you know what? It's something I'm paying attention to because I, I have often just gone through shows and it's like, you almost get an autopilot and it's like, it almost turns into a blur where you're not really as present as you should be. And look, being present, I think is very different for different people. Right. Like for me, I know that I need to be a little bit more in the moment and not think constantly of what's next. I sometimes need to take a step back and be like, right, let's just focus on now. As opposed to thinking so, so far, so much further ahead and planning further ahead. It's good to plan ahead. But at the same time, it's like, even now I just take things day by day and it's scary how quick the time goes. I'm like 11 weeks out next week. And I'm like, Jesus Christ, I feel like I've just started prep. And I started prep, you know, 11, 12 weeks ago or something daft. So it's, it's scary how quick the time goes, but I cannot tell it. Listen, if people are not subscribed and people are not paying patron, they need to be paying because this episode is worth its weight in gold with some of, some of the gold that dusty has brought to life. So guys, you need to be, you need to be, you need to be giving back here. What's that picture you sent over and, uh, on WhatsApp. Well, that's, uh, me at two 47 last year. And then me at two 58 this year, or two 59.5 on average. So about 11 pounds heavier. Let me see this. Oh, nice. I feel like you're, I feel like your numbers are wrong because there's no way there's only that much more muscle. I mean, if these are those things where I think people need to understand how little the scale matters. Yeah. Because if you told me that was 20 pounds, I'd go, okay. Yeah. like you're harder and bigger in all the right places and then smaller. Yeah. In all the right places as well. Like your waist is way down and way leaner than the first picture too. You know, uh, same timeframe as well. That was like 12 weeks out, both shots. So, okay. Let me ask you something, Cooper, because this is something that was on my brain earlier when we were talking. How do you suggest to the younger guys coming up, understanding that these kinds of progress jumps might happen once in your career, maybe twice. Um, you know, you, I mean, you can't expect to see that change in a season. Like I, I know the year where, when I look at two pictures, I'm like, it baffles my mind that I was just, just as organized my whole career. But there's these couple of lines where your body just goes, Oh, okay. And then shoots forward. Like how, how do you kind of work on that? If you were talking to a younger guy, because I do think it's important to understand that as insane as that progress is, you know, damn well, you can't double that in another year. You don't know until you know, you don't know until you try. Cooper's thinking, yeah, I can't watch. Well, that's the, but that's the, but that's the thing though, right? Like, whatever the effort is and what it brings is what it brings. Yeah. You know what I mean? Because you weren't doing less the year, the, the, the year before the first picture. I hope. The drugs were pretty much the same. Yeah. If not, probably more. Yeah. If not more, the only differences is, is my training volume was probably about 30, 40% lower. Right. Right. So again, so you found something as good as you were, you were able to step back and see something that you thought you could improve on. Self-awareness. Exactly. It's less training, less training, less training, less stress. Um, I do feel like I can probably make that step again. Mm-hmm. And then it's probably going to be much slower again. Once I've made that step again next year, um, after the show. But look, you don't know until you know, you don't know until you actually try. Yeah. Right. I feel like sometimes it just takes a lot of time to work out what allows you to get in that groove to make that progress. Mm-hmm. Yeah. For me, I feel like I've always overcooked my volume. I did just too much. And even now, all I've done, increase my frequency, lower volume, lower volume, lower volume, more progress, more progress. So it's just, uh, you need to sometimes put your feelings aside because results don't care about your feelings. Sometimes you need to put your feelings aside, swallow your ego and do something that something in a cell that people don't want to do. Mm-hmm. In order to make more progress. And look, I might not be able to make the same jump again, but I might be able to make even more progress again. Right. We just don't know. You don't know until you do know. And I love that you did that step back though. I, I used to tell my ex-wife cause she loved to train. Yeah. Just love to train, love to do cardio, love to do yoga. And I used to tell her, listen, you have to decide what you want more. Do you want to train more cause you enjoy it? Yeah. Or do you want to make the changes needed to that, which means less to get better results? And either answer is okay. Yeah. But again, you have to make that decision on what you want. And, and I, and I love that you say that. Cause when I tell people, like people would ask me, especially specifically like back, like what's your back workout? And I would tell them and they're like, what else? And I'm like, that's it. I did five sets. Like you would do five sets of back and leave. I'm like, yeah, I'm done. What else would I do? And it blows their mind, you know? And for you, that might be seven or nine, but whatever that sweet spot is for you is, is the magic. Yeah. Look, I think stuff should forever evolve. You should always be open to try new things. And I will continue to do that. And you never know. I might figure something out that allows me to step forward again, even more. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm moving, moving to another country, maybe towards end of this year, that might allow me to make more progress because I'm going to be in a different environment. I'm going to be in an environment where I'm going to be left alone a little bit more where I can just focus on the work. So you just don't know. You don't know until you know what I think. People, people are afraid of just trying, right? People are afraid of trying. People are afraid of pushing themselves out of the comfort zone and seeing what potentially they can achieve. Well, I think people, people need permission to do things, but we also to, we put so much work into figuring out that one thing that helped us to allow us to make good progress. And once we figure that one thing out, then we, you know, we have expectations of that's what we need to do to continue making progress. You know what I mean? And it's hard to clean the draw, you know, go back to the drawing board. I can tell you too, from experience in the other direction where progressive overload, low volume, you know, high frequency always worked. Yeah. And then there was a point in my career where I don't know why, but all of a sudden I was training five days a week. Yeah. And all of a sudden the volume drifted up. Yeah. Because I was, I'm going to take it to the next level and I need to do more. And then something happens and you're like, all right, I'm going to just, I'm going to go back to what I was doing. And you just shut it all down. You go back. And then you're like, Oh shit, I'm growing again. I feel great. And you're like, how the hell did I like, but you wouldn't have known if you didn't. I know better. It was, but it's like, it was a good lesson, right? I think it's one of those things though, Scott, where, and I think this is a good attribute for people to have, uh, in a lot of areas of life, but it can be dangerous in bodybuilding, which is you can't always just work harder. I, I can't tell you the battle that I have in my mind and in my head, almost every single session, having to stop myself from doing extra sets. It's like today I felt good. Did a, did some, did some good work. And I was like, maybe another one. Then I, then I, then I thought to myself, I'm training legs again in four days. No, right. Not one. Because guess what? I do another one. I do a shit rep. Guess what? There's no progress in next four days. So I almost come away from the sessions feeling like I could have done more, but guess what? It's not about just doing more. It's about doing the quality work and doing enough that you need to do in that session. That is it. Scott, Stevenson was called the right dose, the right dose, the right dose. Not enough. Guess what? No progress. Too much. Equally. No fucking progress. You need the right dose. Scott Stevens is the man. I love Scott. I love Scott. Me too. I love him a lot. I love him a lot. Hey, I know we're on this like serious, we're all hardcore competing bodybuilders. I think we're just soap boxing. You know, I know we're doing that today, guys. I get that. I get that. But I, I pulled up some, I pulled a dusty. I've got a couple of overrated, underrated questions. That's what I needed. I didn't have any ready. Sorry. All right. That's okay. Dusty, explain to Cuba how this, how this game works. This is very important. You need to understand the rules. There's only two options, overrated, underrated. So for example, let's say you, let's say you love cheeseburgers from in and out burger. You can love something and still think it's overrated. I have seen almost every single, he don't need the fucking rules. So, you know that we do not allow Scott to ever say accurately rated. He hasn't done that. He hasn't done that in a year or so, but now he really sticks strong to his side, which I love. I first wait to hear what you guys have to say. And then I just pick the opposite. He just disagrees, which I love. I feel like I'm married to Scott sometimes. All right. All right. I got it. I got a good one for you. Where was this one? It was, I have to scroll up a little bit here. Oh shit. Now I lost my, sorry, Dusty. I'm not as good at this. Oh, you didn't write them down. Rookie. They are written down here. I just have a big list. Okay. Making your passion, your career advice. There's a lot of advice out there about making your prep, your passion, your career. Is that overrated or underrated? Ooh, that is a good one. I have my answer. I'm waiting for Cuba. Overrated. I agree. Yeah. Why do you say that? I feel like sometimes people force making the passion a career. If your passion becomes a career, just naturally without you forcing it, happy days. But I feel like if people are set on this mission where they are actively trying to pursue, having that marriage or the passion, the career together, it often just turns into just one career path. That's it. And then, and then the passion isn't there. It's like, it's actually, do you know what? My client came over from Cyprus and he was filming and his videographer asked me a question. And he was trying to quiz me about business with, with coaching and stuff like that. And it's like, I have never ever tried coaching like a business. It's not like, that's not, that's not my goal. I have never ever had any financial goals. Like there's a lot of coaching, there's a lot of coaching gurus at the moment, right? That are coaching coaches how to get more business. And they're wanting them all to set these financial goals. Right. And I'm like, I have never ever set a single financial goal when it came to my coaching. I have set goals around me being a better coach. I have set goals for my clients, their results I want to achieve. So I do think there's a, a bit of a blurred line where people, just because you like bodybuilding doesn't necessarily mean you have to make it your business. I agree. It should be more so like a natural progression where you enjoy coaching people. Guess what? If you enjoy coaching people, that is also passion. So the way I like to break it down is bodybuilding is my passion, but so is coaching. Yeah. It's not the same thing. It's not the same thing. It's not, it's not together. They're both. Actually, they are both very, very separate because when I am training in the gym, unless I've got clients competing, I do not touch my fucking phone at all. Yep. Yep. All right. I agree because there's so much content out there. Like I'll see some guy sends me a message. He's got 10 million followers and two likes on every post. And he's like, Hey bro, do you want to make your fitness career, you know, your passion, your career DM me for, you know, yeah. Advice. And, and he's got all these videos. He was like, you know, Hey guys, I've got five steps that are going to change your life. You know, that's what I think. What else we got? All right. How about, come on, I'm with you a million percent on that. That's that one's easy for me. It's a lot of people kill their passion by turning a new business. Yeah. And now it's just a business that they don't even like. Yeah. All right. Going into the training stuff. Barbell bench press. Overrated. Underrated. Okay. Okay. A little feud here. A little feud. It's a feud. I'm on the fence here. I'm, I'm, this is, you better pick a side. I really do. I'm going to say underrated just simply because I've watched one of my clients have some awesome success with it this past year. If it weren't for him, I would say overrated because I've seen too many people tear their pecs with it. So the reason why I think it's underrated is because if someone actually learns how to bench press correctly, they will have a lot of safety in the other exercises. So there's merit to actually learning how to bench correctly, because if you actually bench correctly, it's a relatively safe exercise, unless, unless you have really long arms and quite a narrow rib cage, then you should never, ever barbell bench press ever. You should just never even attempt it ever because you will probably tear your pec. And I can give you a prime example of that sort of structure. Half or Bjornsson. Really long arms, great deadlifter. He doesn't really have that much of a thick rib cage. So for him, a barbell bench press is actually a very dangerous lift because of his levers. So underrated for that reason, but also can be dangerous depending on your mechanics. Next one. Yeah. I'm going to throw my quick answer on the overrated. It's because most people don't know how to do it correctly and they can stimulate their pecs the exact same way on a good old flex, you know, neutral press and get around it. So there's a safe way for people to do it wrong and get the same result. What else? I don't know if they have this over in the UK. Chick-fil-A. Oh God. Do they? Or you know what it is? I know what it is, but we don't have Chick-fil-A in the UK, but I have had it in Vegas two years ago, so I can, I can comment. Okay. Weigh in. Okay. What do you got? Uh, it was overrated. I'm not going to lie. It was overrated. I had it and I was like, it's, it's all right, but I wouldn't really have it again. Yeah. It's overrated because how that business can have a line around the building. For such a mediocre product drives me crazy. Isn't it pretty much a McChicken? It's a chicken. Yeah. It's a chicken sandwich and it's fine. No, you're wrong. I mean, I've had many, but when I drive by the one that's right by my daughter's work and they have, they have Cuba, they have a drive-through that splits into two lines. That's how many people are there. But I was told it's an invisible drive-through. Dusty, you told me that only one of those three cars are real. Cause it moves so fast. They, they, they, if you want to talk about the efficiency of a drive-through underrated, what else we got? We need to invest in a Chick-fil-A. Oh, trust me. You do. All right. I'm trying to pick a good one here. Um, filming your set. Ooh, Ooh, my answer is going to confuse you. Massively underrated. Yeah. And, and, and my answer is going to be overrated, but only because so many people do it for all the wrong reasons. Yes. I'm with you. That's what I was going to say. Yeah. Yes. But, but, but let me, let me tell a quick story. Even though these are, even though these are supposed to be rapid fire. Yeah. The reason it's underrated is because just last week, you guys will love this. You know, how many years in the game I'm doing a, uh, a body masters, uh, chest supported row. Nice. Yeah. On my 10th rep, I can feel I'm not quite pulling all the way back. Yeah. So my God, I'm going to force out an 11th. It's going to be a little shallow, but it's fine. Pull it back, rack the weight. I'm a little disappointed because I really only got nine reps. And then I watched the video and all 11 were perfect. I was like, no, I put it down too early. I was sure they were short. Like I was like, all right, 10th is short. 11th is garbage. And then I watched the video and it was funny. Cause Nikki was filming me and I racked it. And she goes, why'd you rack it? And I go, well, those were shallow. And then she hands me the phone and I'm like, shit. And I almost posted that just as a video to tell people why it's important. I left, I left reps on the table for sure. I feel like a lot of people film the sets and they've watched them. Like I feel like we, me and Meg film our sets because we want to look at what we can do better. That's the sole purpose of filming the sets. You'll, you'll look at self, you'll look at execution, even effort. Like that's, that's my goal. I want to watch the video, right. And pick out what can I do better next time? That's the sole purpose. And if you are using it for that reason, I feel like that's when, that's when, you know, that's when it is underrated. It's overrated. If you're just filming it for sake of filming it, look guys, there's so many guys in the gym that are like, they don't really know how to train yet. And the film in the sets, I'm like, bro, you need to just focus on training hard and learning how to train hard first. Like I, and you know what? It's a funny story. I had a, I had a geezer message me about building up to socials, whatever it was. And I was like, the first video ever did speak into our camera was the day when we pro card. Really? That was the first video I did speaking to our camera was the day when we pro card. Yeah. Yeah. That was the first time I ever did a video actually speaking to one. So it's like, you need to learn how to walk before you can run guys. Yeah. You gotta, you gotta have something to say actually that has value. I always, I had a guy reach out to me one time, a client. And I, I always ask what people do for work just to understand their day to day life. Yeah. And he was 22 years old and he was a life coach. And I was like, but you haven't lived a life yet. I don't know how you're going to coach a 44 year old man with three kids. Your life is just gorgeous. And two mortgages. And you know, so I was just kind of like, Hey, hats off to you if you're successful doing it, but I won't hire you. I see people that I work with that maybe haven't filmed their sets and they don't even want to, because of the stigma of filming your sets. They're like, Hey, listen, let's, you know, see some key lifts. I get that all the time. And they're like, I don't want to be that guy, you know? So it takes some, you know, pushing to do that sometimes. But I always tell them, like you said, Cuba, every other sport, they play the tape back. You know, they do a screen. They watch the game the day after the game. Yeah, exactly. You know, and that's that. And every time you do it, I swear to God, you're either going to, you're either going to pause longer in that pause squat than you think you did, or you're going to pause a lot shorter. Your negative is going to be a lot faster than you thought it was. All of my pauses are faster than I thought they were. Yeah. You know what I mean? You ever do, you ever do double pause, uh, deads Cuba, where you pull up like an inch off the ground to it, just pause, stand up, come down, pause, then put them down. That pause is five seconds in your mind. It's one in real life. I do think the value is through the roof on, on the videos though, because you know, like you were saying, Scott, like I watched the NHL and guys will come off the ice and the assistant coach has a iPad for the shift. He just played. You're kidding. And they're like, boom, boom, when you see the guy watching it and nodding, you learn, then they move forward, you know, like they're like, no, no, I can teach you on that shift. We don't need to wait till this game's over. Wow. You can not do that on your next shift. And that is enormous. When you do that, I mean, it, I hammered on clients and then one pet peeve I have, and it's against our people, the people at the higher end of the food chain. I despise when people think you shouldn't be filming, but I should. Ah, yeah. Like all those kids with the tripods. I'm like, you, you mean like me? Yeah. Cause I carry a tripod all over the fucking gym. I make sure not to have it in people's way that I understand. Yeah. But no, they're there. That's one of the greatest things that, that Lance did at muscle factory. A lot of the gyms in Arizona, Cuba banned, um, tripods. Yeah. So as soon as he heard that he went out and bought 10 tripods and you can borrow them from the front desk. That's exactly what I did. Wow. That's exactly what I did. You're kidding. If you need a tripod, come grab it. If you forget yours at home, here it is. That's exactly what I did at my gym, mate. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. If you need a tripod, pick one up. We got you. And the thing is, it helps the gym out as well because it's free promotion, but. Oh, absolutely. And you know what? When I'm filming the gym, I make a point of telling people to never, ever stop walking past. Exactly. Walk right through. Yeah. Walk right through. I do not care. Please never, ever stop. If I'm filming with a tripod, I have someone filming me with a camera, please never, ever stop. And all my members know this now. Yeah. And they're all happy. And you know what? You know what? Nobody cares. Everyone just cracks on. Everyone supports one another and everyone, you know what? Everyone cheers each other on. It's great, but you have to be sensible as long as you're not taking the piss with it. You know, you've got to just use common sense. You've got to just. Don't put your tripod in front of the dumbbells. By the way, for the drugs and stuff fans out there, did you just say crack on by chance? Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. We'll nod to Dave for everybody watching. Do not put it in people's way. And look, I feel like filming your sets, it keeps me accountable. It really does. Like when I'm filming with a set, I know that I need to perform because likelihood is like, Meg's probably going to watch that set and she's probably going to grill me or Dean's going to watch it. So it's like, I need to be on point. And that's one way to almost like have a PT without a PT. And it's the same for my clients. They're filming the sets and they know I'm going to see that video. So guess what? They work harder. Yep. Yeah. If dad's watching, you're going to work harder. There's always benefits. There's always benefits and negatives to almost everything. Right. I think key is the right dosage and just being and using common sense. That's all it is. It always comes back to dose. That's a good place to wrap things. We're ending on, just remember guys, the right dose is the magic. Yeah. The right dose. The right here. The right here. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring the bell. There you go. Good. Good. Good. And of course, I am mutant. Go to iammute.com. You can get your mind FK and get everything else. If from a mutant and use the code, a big round or dusty. And what do you got there? What do you got there? Cuba? A little train by GD action. You got a code. Give him a love. You got a code. Cuba time. Cuba time. You know the drill. All right. You guys know what's up. And of course, check out everything Cuba's doing over at his channel. You got a bunch of stuff constantly coming out, man. You've been putting out a bunch of stuff on the channel lately. Your Instagram is one of the best on the internet. YouTube. YouTube too. I love the quick bursts of knowledge. And even for guys, I think I can't stress this enough. Even when you know something, hearing it back. And sometimes it's even like a re-reminder. Yeah. And you're like, oh, I have slipped away from that. So if you guys aren't following, make sure to go through. And if you are not, just anytime you see him sitting in front of the camera, trust me, watch it. It's, you're going to get something and they're, they're great. So keep those up, man. Cause I really enjoy them. And I hate most people's social media. So I love yours. I appreciate that a lot. I appreciate that a lot. It means a lot. Actually, he really does. Dusty was one of the OGs when I first started bodybuilding with his YouTube. So that, that definitely hits, hits me deep, hits me deep in the heart. Been old for a long time. All right, guys. Well, we appreciate it having you on, man. It was awesome. I know you got to get to some slow down time and get some rest and good luck on the rest of the prep, man. We're looking forward to following along on your awesome progress. I appreciate you both. Thank you so much for having me on. I'm a big fan of the channel in general, especially, especially it's just bodybuilding. I, uh, I have watched almost every single episode, so I appreciate you both having me on and, uh, I'll be looking forward. I'll be looking forward to having, uh, Ron back on and watching the next episode. So thank you guys. We're a mess without him. Oh, we really are. But we appreciate you being here, man. And, uh, for another, he doesn't say another episode. He says, uh, does he say, what does he even say? He says like, you know, uh, for another episode of, he doesn't say for another episode, it's just bodybuilding. I don't even know what you're talking about. I don't even know what he says either, but he says like, you know, Ron Partlow with, you know, Scott, the producer, Dusty Hinshaw. And remember, it's just bodybuilding. And then Dusty goes on that, something like that. Listen, all I'm there for is for the perfect radio voice. That's all I'm there for. That's it. It's buttery. It's buttery.