 A good learner, in this bodybuilding thing is someone that doesn't have to have to have to have to literally even ask questions why because you're observant, right? Because you're observant, right? It has to do with where your elbows are, your flexibility and mobility through your shoulders too, but where your elbow is, whether it's slightly internally rotated or externally rotated and there are studies now that are showing that that that rotation changes where it's slightly internally rotated or externally rotated. which are sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick week to week and of course truenutrition.com the first advertiser for our channel use code think to get additional savings on all your basic bodybuilding supplements they have some of the best protein powder in the business you can get the team skip blend over there and uh all your basic bodybuilding stuff like creatine intro workout uh yeah guys we've got a bunch of stuff we do have a ton of listener questions uh i wanted to jump straight into them and by the way guys uh the three of us we've been coaching for a long time andrew and i have both been around 15 years and skit's been coaching for over 20 years now so we're here to just freely share our education with you and hopefully help you guys do better at this sport that we love you're welcome to leave questions for us comment below plus comments likes all that stuff it helps to boost our programming in the algorithm let's jump off with this one because i love the way he worded it question for the next episode why shouldn't i take trend in the offseason did you say it just like that i it's the way i read it why shouldn't i take trend in the offseason it's the way i heard it right exactly give me a good reason bro that's what it sounded like when i read it i'll go on record i don't have a problem with it yeah why not you got three three do's no no don'ts yeah the do's have it the do's have it you know now well let's maybe play devil's advocate yeah like why not you know um here's the thing when taken at i would say moderate doses i don't think trends any worse than any other compound for the majority of people guys that take it you know and you know he's going to ask okay what's an appropriate dose then right a couple years ago it was 100 milligrams a day 50 to 100 milligrams a day i think today you can get the same results with the lack of side effects with something like 25 milligrams a day i said it so i think if you're not being excessive with it and you're paying attention to the side effects and not blowing the side brushing the side effects off to the wind and saying ah i'm on cycle it's it's worth it you know i think if you can be rational about it then why not i don't have a problem with it and i'll be the first to admit yeah i program in it uh in guys plants i would uh well i need to go on record and say that in 41 years of training i don't know 30 years of gear i'm not sure i'm a professional drug user so there's that not a professional bodybuilder but definitely a professional drug user the only time i've gotten gyno twice gyno symptoms i get a little bit of gyno i'm being honest was just this last prep and it was directly related to the fact that i went high with the trend dose and i went pretty high higher than i've ever gone before so that made me pull back so there there's a good sign and it was so obvious because everything else had remained constant until that so i didn't jump in at a big dose but i jumped in and then i was like oh i'm responding really well kick it up a little bit responded equally as well if not better so i just mama said you don't fix what ain't broke so i'm going to continue to mess with it and it got to the point where i'm like oh okay i'm gonna have to back off now that's one sign the other thing i think that could be argued as devil's advocate is if you're going to be using traffic or trap i don't know where trap came from but i'm going to go back and say trend if you're going to use trend for your prep that's where it came from then you don't really want to run trend year round so if you can say okay i've got this gap between the time that i'm going to use the trend in the offseason and when i'm going to use it in a cut phase or a prep then okay yeah but if you're not then i remember viewers of the show they'll know that i have this DHB trend thing going on oh i got a bunch of follow-up DHB questions too by the way okay cool and i just say that they're relatively comparable in the sense that if you don't want to use trend for whatever reason sides you sleep like crap you turn into an ass whatever then DHB can be a nice substitution that goes for the offseason and for prep so if you want to run trend during prep then i would go the other way in in the offseason unless there's this bigger gap but you could always run the trend in the offseason if there's not a gap and you could just transition to DHB as well so there are options there at the end of the day i think we all agree three of us said why not yeah i i think you make a really good point um i i kind of i have this thing and maybe it's just kind of a bro thing in me that i i don't want to i don't want to run trend all offseason and then take a you know eight week break from that and then start trying back up as i start prepping i do eight weeks either you just switch i mean it depends on dosing too like andrew was touching on there's a lot of variables but i agree i agree yeah i've worked with some people that they they that's the compound that they just do best with that they we've gone down the gamut guys that have worked with long term where they haven't had the greatest like they do well with tests right and then when we start adding in EQ it's like there's maybe some issues we added in some deca there was some issues and we worked our way down the line into the point where like you know what this trend thing is actually working out pretty good but i'm i'm with you guys on controlling that dose we used to run it a lot higher i man i think i don't know i i'll tell you guys the first time i ran trend was this is a long time ago now i did have all the sides like every side effect you could think you were going to get like it it made me feel short-tempered it and it drastically affected my sleep like i'm i just was tossing and turning night sweats constantly but then at the same time like my strength was through the absolute roof i i finished that cycle i said like i don't want to deal with this again but i was short on cash so the only real option i had was to brew my own with finna finna cart pellets and i thought to myself you know what i i wonder if i can get away with less i think it was 75 or 100 every other day that i was running so about 400 a week basically and uh i i did 25 25 every other day and i was like okay you know this isn't bad this is this is all right but i think i can take a little bit more it went to like 37.5 i was like oh that's a little bit better and i went to ended up at 50 every other day i found that by slowly increasing i didn't get nearly the side effects that's one thing i noticed and then obviously keeping the dose done i didn't get nearly the side effects either but 50 every other day or as andrew you put it 25 every day i think that that's an incredible place to be with it and i agree with you man there's like uh you know what if you're going to try to dose it milligram per milligram like you're dosing your EQ there might be a problem but if you have respect for it and you run it low i i wouldn't have a problem with it in offseason whatsoever yeah i also want to point out i don't think you need to run and i do have some people or i do know some people that run it as like their their base or not their base testosterone base but as their main anabolic besides testosterone um i think it can be used strategically at times you know with with offseason cycles it doesn't necessarily have to be a 16 20 week straight push you know yeah you can utilize it maybe early on in the prep or the cycle i should say the offseason cycle for four to six weeks pull it out put a different compound like NPP or something else in there and then um you know you could then put it back in over the last say four to six weeks of a contest prep and i think or i keep saying contest prep an offseason cycle we know what you mean yeah i know i i think i've just been talking it's that season i've been talking a lot of contest stuff with clients because got people competing this weekend next weekend and then you know nationals and whatnot so contest prep is on my mind but um but yeah no it doesn't it doesn't mean when i when i'm saying i i fully support using it in the offseason it doesn't mean like hey 20 weeks of trend typically yeah yeah then we have the different trends yeah there's that there's that too what does it run trend hex hate it yeah yeah i don't like it never never used to i i just like trend ace i'm not gonna lie i like trend ace i you know and and my dosing patterns that i recommend and use myself daily  So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste Filtered. So it's overste other trend but acetate yeah yeah i've used tranny with a couple people who they wanted to use trend in an offseason and i i don't mind it at a low dose and we used to ask kind of like that main additional anabolic now when i say a couple people i literally mean a couple people out of you know a lot more than that um but like 200 milligrams of tranny i feel like you can get a per week i think you can get a good additional benefit out of that and hey let's face it that's literally if you're going to do it for 10 weeks that's one bottle so cost effectiveness wise you can do a lot with that i this is an aside but uh you guys probably get these questions too especially from guys and they're like let's say you just throw some numbers out there like hey all right throwing 20 milligrams of testosterone a day right that's their TRT or that's their their cruising dose right okay and they're like okay well how many bottles will i need of that like if we're going to do that for 10 weeks and i'm like that's not really a coaching question that's a simple math question and what i'm getting at is like i feel like i feel like with all the technology we have it's making people take the steps out of just like figuring stuff out for themselves you know you know what i'm saying like even like saying something like okay so add in you know 25 grams of carbs you can choose from rice or cream of rice well how much is that it's like well you got the food label of your cream of rice about it like do the math you know what i mean just that's my gripe that's my gripe for the day because i'm getting a lot of those like how do i calculate my peptide it's like there's even websites that do it for you yeah i run into that a lot with people who can't calculate their peptides and i'll try to help them with it because i want to make sure that they get it right yeah um but yeah with the the websites are so good for that now yeah i guess what i what i say is i'm a show a fish a show a guy had a fish guy not a not a give a guy a fish guy and yeah i think like teaching you a little bit of basic math is going to serve you more than just your contest prep cycle like maybe you got to measure and convert inches to centimeters when you're measuring something for your house you know like be able to like transition between those yeah i'm good with math but i'm really good with money and i'm really good with dosage hey growing shoulder skip this one's right in your wheelhouse uh trying to build shoulders especially for a guy with narrow clavicles i know you've talked about that a lot and that's been uh that's been on your mind i don't know what are you talking about oh by the way i have my old school gold's gym i got to get that in there you know what i mean by old school right the logo hasn't been changed it's not the skinny one this is the 1980s guy they changed it yeah i don't yeah they changed it i feel like gold's remember remember when gold's gym was like a hallowed ground like oh yeah he goes to a gold's gym it's like well he goes to a real gym now someone says they go to a gold's gym it's like oh you go to like a bally's total fitness you know what i mean it's it's it's lost it's luster because there's so many great individual non um you know non non-chain gyms out there now powerhouse in this area has kind of gone that way too they are too well that's because they i mean there's more money in it they want to make money yeah oh that's yeah but that's when they changed the logo when it went to more of an athletic so they they slimmed the gold's gym guy down so he didn't look so meatheadish gotcha yeah anyway narrow narrow clavicles uh i'm i'm it's the bane of my existence so it's AI mean what are the basics it's a basically a an endeavor of slapping as much weight or as much size on your side delts as you possibly can not just the side delt but you know obviously i want to try to emphasize that shoulder to waist ratio and make myself look you know as wide as i possibly can so you know i'm a side delt guy i think i'm i'm kind of glad i wonder if you guys have seen this too i'm kind of glad that shoulder training has evolved to the point where we are focusing on a lot of lateral movements now versus the pressing um and i'm i would assume that you guys have seen the same thing back when i started in the late 80s not the 60s like andrew had stated on the previous show but what did we do we did some side laterals but it was primarily overhead pressing you go into any basic gym and you would see just as many overhead shoulder pressing benches as you would flat benches it was a well it was just something that you you did you just you accepted it much like you would bench press and i unless you were genetically gifted it really didn't help a whole lot now i still will do overhead pressing but it's limited it might only be one movement of three or four a lot of isolation a lot of lateral movements i'm big on the upright dumbbell rows oh really much on the barbell row and i even have a version now of an upright cable row that i just started doing about a month ago with pulleys and you have to have those adjustable pulleys okay and you bring the pulleys into their about shoulder width and their low pulley and i'm doing isolateral rowing one at a time and it's nice and it's yep and it's not crossed over a lot of people you know i like a crossover cable for a side lateral because there's continuous tension i tried doing that with the upright row and it just didn't feel right so i left the pulleys right under my shoulders and it's awesome and i do them one at a time because it's there's just a better range of motion versus doing them both at the same time and you know me i'm not gonna do one side for 15 reps and then go to the other side not gonna do it it's an ocd thing that i have that i just don't do that i do left right left right left right for the whole set everything that i'm gonna if i'm gonna work isolateral so i mean that's kind of the crux of of what i do i think that upright rows are highly underrated from a dumbbell and cable standpoint not as much from a barbell then we see people like dorian let me be clear dorian haywood doing upright dumbbell rows with a barbell and it's it's pretty impressive so i think it depends a lot on that person's structure as to whether you actually feel them or not the grip position is important whether it's shoulder width and things like that back in the day you did them real real narrow and i still to this day don't understand the the idea behind that uh dante i think was one of the first ones that kind of came out with the uh you got to be shoulder width or even slightly outside of the shoulder and and i thought oh that's pretty good but with a barbell i just feel and i've got a torn labrum in my right shoulder so i'm a little bit limited that may be why i like dumbbells better because i can find that groove versus being forced into that position with the the barbell but with the dumbbells you're also it's easier on your wrist because you can get a little bit of rotation to make it a little bit i don't just make it feel better i guess make it fit your structure versus the barbell that kind of locks you in now did you just going back a little bit did you also do like dumbbell presses like some point after the barbell presses that or was it one or the other it was usually one or the other i i to this day find it kind of redundant to do of course both yeah um but i'm i mean i may have there's so many things you know like the arnold press that was a big deal then because it was you know late 80s and even in my young age being a teenager i'm like i don't know if i want rotation that much rotation in the shoulder under resistance i don't think that's a good idea but i'm also a fan of the narrow shoulder width machine presses that they have as well because that forces that elbow in and there's a lot of anterior delt there but i'm also a big fan of behind the neck press and i will die on the hill that you're fit that it's a side primarily a side delt movement if done correctly even though you see some studies will show ecm numbers that you know clearly put it that it's anterior delt um not heavy but anterior it it what's what's the word i'm looking for it favors that's what i'm looking for it favors the front delt i think it has to do with mechanics and specifically we talk about this on our show it has to do with where your elbows are your flexibility and mobility through your shoulders too but where your elbow is whether it's slightly internally rotated or externally rotated and there are studies now that are showing that that rotation changes where it hits on the shoulder not just behind the neck press but the front press remember that makes sense recently yeah sure and they're saying that with the dumbbells now if you're doing an overhead dumbbell press or a military press with dumbbells that if the elbows are in i think that that is misleading it's not as much the elbows in that takes care of it but it's the rotation so if you're back behind your neck and you have this subtle variance of internal versus external rotation you can favor a specific more of a specific part of the shoulder complex it's quite nuanced i always say that back training is the most complex musculature of the body because there's so many muscles involved but a very close you  The second is delt training. Remember the, so you, I got a couple things I was just trying to wait, Skip, you said the, that Arnold press. So I, every time I tried to do the Arnold press. So I, every time I tried to do the Arnold press, I tore my shoulders up. Like I, I, I think I spent, at one point I tried doing it and I spent like a couple weeks out of the gym because of the, the strain. I, you know, I told you guys that I worked for Bally's for a while. And, uh, as a training, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I I'll be taking pictures of everybody, right? And if he was just doing the same things that everybody else did, he would take just as many pictures of him as they did of everybody else. But when he started doing weird stuff that nobody else was doing, he said all of a sudden the flashbulbs would all go off. So he invented a bunch of shit that really wasn't necessary. And shit being the operative term, yeah. Yeah, Arnold stuff. So basically he was the pioneer influencer. Yeah, pretty much. But his stuff actually worked. Yeah. Or at least the other stuff he was doing. It worked to hurt my shoulder. Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, but you know what I'm saying? Because lately I see where friends will send me videos of people doing stuff, and it's like, just do the basic version of that exercise. Like, what are you doing? You know what I mean? Like I saw, and it's cool to try to be creative to try stuff out in the gym, but it's some of the stuff involving different contraptions. Like I saw someone had a foam roller, like one of those rumble foam rollers, and they put their wrist or their arm all the way through it, and they were using it to try to do a concentration curl for some reason. And I don't, it's not apparent to me why. I kind of just glossed over it because I'm like, this is stupid. Yeah. Thinking like it's better if you don't actually have to grip it. But now the weight is situated lower on your wrist than it would be in your palm. Oh, I see what you're saying. Okay. But it's kind of, but also I got to say the person doing it had arms that were about as big as my thumb. So it's like, you know. And I see a lot of these other guys that they make videos trying to poke fun at pros, I guess, for doing things maybe with a little extra body English. And then they show their version of doing it, and they're about a buck 25. And they're like breaking down these pros. And it's like, take the genetics aside. An average guy using the pros form is going to get 10 times the results than you are with whatever the heck you're doing. You know. Like someone was trying to say, you should never use your hands for any back movements. You should use those, remember those ab straps? Oh, yeah. Every movement should be done with the ab straps, whether it's a pull down, a pull over movement, a row. And it's like, what are you talking about? Are you talking about like the cuffs? The cuffs that you put your elbows in? No. No, no, no. I'm talking. No, they're kind of like giant cloth. Remember when you used to hang? Yeah. You used to hang and do the hanging leg raises, the hanging knee raises, right? Okay. That were in every gym through the 2005 probably. Now I don't really see them. And their proposition was that to truly pull with your elbow. You need those and you should not have your hand on a bar, a cable, a dumbbell. And it's kind of like. It would be a good teaching moment. Yeah. But not to train that way. You know what I mean? Almost like if you needed to get a client to really think about moving their elbow. I'm reaching here. But it would work. An activator. An activator. Yeah. To kind of teach them. Okay. I don't need. That way it would take the focus because a lot of people do pull from their hands. Sure. Yeah. Absolutely. But even those people that are pulling with their hands, I've seen a lot of good back spills. Yeah. Right. That's true. You know what I'm saying? Is it the most optimal way with the way some people train? No. But dumbbells, barbells, cables, they build your back. Okay. Trying to do all this cute stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So shoulder press worked really well for me early on. And I, in fact, I got stronger with shoulder press than I did with my chest press because I was pressing with my shoulders. Like all my presses were, you know, my bench press. It was also a shoulder press basically. And eventually I corrected that. But at that time, like I'm talking, I was still a middleweight and I was, I was shoulder pressing the one thirties, like, because we had one thirties. And now when I say shoulder pressing the one thirties, I mean that like, if it was the first exercise that I did for the day, you know, I'm pressing the one thirties as a middleweight and I do it for like three, four sets of eight, 10 reps. My, I did grow good shoulders out of that. They're like, my shoulders grew really well. I, um, I do think there was benefit to it, but I don't, I, I don't feel like it was necessary to go as heavy as I ever did with shoulder press. I am with you, Skip. I do like a lot of lateral movements now. I feel like shoulders are the one thing that I'm shoulder presses are the one area where I don't want you to like get real deep, perfect form. I just want you to go with what you're comfortable with. Um, you know, and, and I, we've talked about this before. I think you said you come down to the ears, right? Skip, was that the word? Yeah. Especially if it's a behind the neck press, but yeah. Kind of eye nose. Yeah. I said, yeah, ear. It's all right. Yeah. You said ears. I said eyes, I think. So about that, that same place. Yeah. I try not to, to go that deep, nor do I feel like you really need to go super heavy. I think that I really do think that if you can get strong on your chest presses and then also train shoulders on top of that, that you'll, you'll have good shoulders. Would you, would you argue with that? Skip? I know. I would agree that I would say this though, too, to the listeners, to the viewers, I I'm kind of posing a question to them and I want to hear it in the comments. If you think you have narrow shoulders, but you're, you know, clavicles. Yeah. And you're strong on an overhead press. I want to hear it because I say that the wider, cause you have wider clavicles than I do, Scott. And yeah, a one 30. I'm going to be honest with you. I don't think I've ever in my life. Dumbbell pressed overhead seated. 100 pound dumbbells. I don't think I've ever done that. It just would not happen. I think once or twice I hit 225, 245 on a Smith seated overhead press. And that was like, it was just going to rip. I had the strength, but it just felt like it was going to rip my arms right off of my shoulder. I mean, and I only had done it a couple of times and this is like early 2000s. So I posit that the wider clavicles allow for, I don't want to say obviously more growth for adults. That's obvious, but the strength, I think the narrow clavicles are limiting for a lot of people to be strong in an overhead shoulder press movement. Okay. So I'd be curious what the viewers say. I think, I think they're going to back me up on that. 130. That's impressive. I mean, especially when you're weak at something, you know, you see something or hear something like that. You go, man, that would be awesome. Oh dude. It was like my trying to get, I prided myself on that too. How did you get them into place? I kick them up, man. You just kick them up. Oh man. And 130s. I don't know if I could even kick up a, I don't know if I could kick up a 90 at this point. I wouldn't want to. We're not talking about today, Skip. Yeah. We're talking about going to healthy. But, and I, you know, agreed. But I mean, I'm, you know, my numbers aren't horrible. They're not what they used to be, but they're, you know, considering my age and the amount of time in, in destruction that I've put into my, my, my body over the years, I think I'm still handling relatively, you know, good weights at this age without injury, but kicking something like that up, even in my prime, I just think to myself, wow. Of course I used to not complain about how exhausting it was getting heavy dumbbells into place for flat or inclined dumbbell presses. And these days it's just exhausting. So there is that too. I don't know. We had a good question in the comments. What is the potential to build more mass lateral raises or presses? Well, I think it depends on what part of the delt. I mean, if you just, if you're saying I need it more on, you know, I need more side delt. Or if, if you need more anterior delt, I know I train my anterior delts more these days than I do or did when I was younger and doing DC training and stuff like that. The primary reason was because our inclines were higher than. Okay. So we were getting a lot of anterior delt work. I mean, as soon as you get to 45 degrees on an incline, I'm sorry, the vast majority of people are getting a lot of anterior delt in there. But these days, what do we do? We were more efficient. We're more optimal with our training. So those inclines tend to come down 15 degrees, 20 degrees. They're in there. They're maybe 30. They're not up in the 45 degree range. I remember back in the day in the 80s, your typical incline would also be a decline. It was a 45 degrees. And then so would the decline. You just had to flip the pad down and change the, pull the bars out and put them back. I mean, think about a decline at 45 degree angle. That's insane. Well, your range of motion ends up being like this too. Yeah. Yeah. And if you happen to lose that bar, I mean, there's no saving you at that point. It's just not going to happen. Yeah. But yeah. But yeah.  AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST, AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST AST A have more potential to build overall shoulder mass. I'm going to, and variety, you know, dumbbells, cables, cables with the cuffs. I think there's a little more potential there because my experience with shoulders, I think my shoulders grew the best and I did the strong stuff, the pressing, but I think they grew the best from hitting like, like do something like five sets of 20 reps with short rest on some type of standard lateral raise, just loading them up with blood, stretching the tissue out. So like for me, like when the shoulders felt a crazy pump, I felt like they continued to grow. Whereas like maybe you got a good pump in your legs, but they're not progressing as fast as like the shoulders, you know? All right. What about this one? Could go down that rabbit hole of the pump. That's that, you know, now over the last few weeks, that's been the topic of discussion. Whether it's beneficial. Whether it's related more directly to growth than we had always, and have always given it credit for. And I know myself, I've said all these years, the muscle groups that I struggle with the most get the least amount of pump, even though I still get really good pumps. But if I relate, like if I compare each muscle group, my best muscle groups get the most wicked pumps and blood flow. So I do think that there's a connection. It may not be direct, but there's a connection there. I guess maybe I was falling asleep at the wheel over the last 15 years. I never, I thought, I believe that all along, I guess. It makes sense. It makes sense. Somebody said something. I can't remember what it was, but we had an Instagram clip, and somebody said something about a pump letting him know that he was doing the job that he wanted to do on that muscle. It was Stefan. He was talking about URs in his back training, and he was saying that he didn't get a great pump previously, and they've adjusted the technique, and now he does. Somebody commented, and they're like, the pump doesn't mean anything. This guy doesn't know what he's talking about. Okay. Come on. Come on. Because even if the pump itself isn't directly the muscle growing effect, it's a side effect of having really gotten to target that muscle well. Exactly. So it makes total sense to me, Skip. If I can't train my back properly, it's probably not going to get pumped as well as, you know, chest if I can train chest very well. Yeah. Right. I think people like to make things black or white. Like, is it cytoplasmic? Is it myofilber? Right. Like, what is going to, it's like, you need both. Can we just say, like, like, you can't just eat protein and grow. You need protein, carbs, fats. Like, it's not just one thing that causes growth. It's the milieu of all the things that we're doing. And I think when it comes to training, you should have some strength stuff, and you should have some pump stuff, like, in the same session. Absolutely. I like that you use milieu well played. I use it almost every day, actually. Do you? I really do. I do. I went to an interview one time to work with kids at the Colorado Christian Home years ago, 97, 98. And one of the questions on the thing was, what do you, how do you, what do you define the milieu of this or that? And I just looked at her, and I just went on this bullshit thing. And she came back, and she goes, that's the best answer I've had in well over a year, because nine out of ten people go, what is a milieu? I was thinking the same thing. I did not know what it was, but I wasn't going to ask. And she laughed. I got the job. Maybe that's the word of the day, huh? Yeah. There you go. Question. Have you guys ever had a client skip finals because they were so upset with the prejudging results? Yes. Yes. What was the context? So this will be, he's probably actually listening right now to the show, because he, I won't name him, you know, but he sent me an apology, actually, just three days ago, I think it was. And he, we did a show together, and he won the show, and then was getting ready for nationals, and he should be doing nationals. He looked the part, you know? And I don't think he made first call-outs. I think he was in the middle, like sharing the middle and second call-outs, which is great for your first national show, right? Like, I mean, he was right almost to the weight cap. He was in great condition. Just the judges thought that six or seven other guys looked better, plain and simple. And I think maybe in his head, he had put so much pressure on himself that this was going to be a one-and-done thing. And, you know, and I was checking in with him multiple times leading up to the show, and I was there with him. And then I sent him a message after the show. I'm like, you know, hey, you know, we look great out there. You know, I think we looked the part. There's just some things we've got to keep working on to continue to move towards the middle. And I gave him the plan for the next three hours. And I'm like, check in. Let's say, like, maybe we got done at 1230. I'm like, check in at 330 with pictures. 330 rolls around. I'm like, hey, are you around? Are you up? Like, what's going on? You know? And I got the message like, hey, bro, I'm just so disappointed and embarrassed. I'm heading home. I'm not coming back. And I'm like, I don't understand, man. You look great. This is your first national show. Like, I really think you should come back. And I don't think he responded to me after that. I think, and he fired me. And, you know, I'm like, that was perplexing to me because everything about the experience had been great leading up to that. Our communication, his mindset, the preparation, everything was good, right? And the problem is, is, you know, obviously you're adding compounds. You're working really hard. You're not thinking clearly in the moment. I think after, when you look back on it, maybe a year later, he's like, wow, I did look good. It's just that the judges thought six or seven guys look better in my class that day. That's it, you know? So it was really nice to see, you know, he sent me a message just saying he's thought about it every day since then that, you know, he was upset for, with himself for leaving and just wanted to apologize. And I very graciously said, you hate me. I have no hard feelings whatsoever, you know? And I get it. And, you know, I think I'd love the door open if he ever wanted to come back. So, yeah. I mean, that's my story with it. And, yeah. I mean, that's, what do you think? What do you have? Well, I used to have a different stance. Look, I've always thought that if you're there and you've done the work and you've sacrificed and people are there to support you, you just, you just do the right thing. You come back for finals. You also don't want the consequences of not showing up and irritating the promoter or I think, I think technically you can be disqualified from competing for a year. Here's the thing, though. They don't do that. No. That's just the reality of it. So, when I went to Masters this last year, I knew I was not in the top five. And when I stepped out of the line, looked up and down, went, well, I'll be going out to lunch with my family. I don't, you know, I won't, I don't need to be back for finals. It could be argued that I needed to come back. Maybe I should have come back. But, I don't care. And I don't mean that shitty, but I'll tell you why. All I would have done at night is come back to coming out and hitting a couple poses. You know, it really wasn't in a terribly healthy state at that point, but whatever. Could have done it. My, my family would have paid ridiculous amounts for tickets or I would have so that they were there to see me come out and hit two poses. Yeah. I don't care. You know what I mean? In those big shows, it's different, right? It's, you know. Well, it is, and I think it depends on the show. And it's not, understand this, and I want the viewers to understand this clearly. I didn't, didn't not, double negative again. I've done that twice today. But I, my, my reason for not going back wasn't because I was whiny, that I was, you know, pissy, or oh my God, I got screwed. That wasn't the case at all. I just wasn't in the top five. I wasn't going to do a routine. I wasn't going, it just, I just weighed everything and I go, you know what? This has been a long, you know, and it is for everybody, a long mental, but there were some things that I just thought, you know what? I'm just, I'm at this point, I'm done. And I don't have no regrets about that, to be honest with you. But yet, at the same time, it's hypocritical because I would encourage my clients to come back. Can I add why I encourage people to come back? Yeah. Because, it's not because I think, oh, you're going to get blacklisted or anything like that. Like, in your situation, Skip, at a big show like Masters Nationals, the judges are probably overjoyed when there's only like six guys that come back at night because they're like, okay, we might get to a restaurant in time by the thing and then we got to go to bed again by midnight and be up again by five to start the whole process all over again because we got the females tomorrow. in that situation, my reasoning, okay, is like if I see something and I'm like, okay, we've been doing this and I think there might be something we can fix to try to elicit another look. Like, maybe it's a fullness thing. Okay, and I'll give a prime example. I did Nationals in 2018. We had a Nor'eastern and I ended up showing up to the show. I missed numerous flights because they were canceled on the East Coast and I showed up to the show literally at nine o'clock the night before Nationals, okay? I had food I was eating but it wasn't a relaxed, calm state. I just didn't look good. I did the best with what I could. I got third call-outs of that show, right? But I didn't, I'm like, I know this isn't a show.  and that's the, and that's when Nationals was a two-day show. So I'm like, I'm gonna get right back on plan, hydrate properly, feed up a little bit more. And I did, and I came back for my one picture. It was literally five, you know, 10 seconds on stage for that one picture. And I hit my best shot. And then I, you know, I sent it to the judges and got some feedback. And they're like, if you would have showed up like this yesterday, you might have been the first call out, maybe middle of second. So my point is, is like, I went back to the drawing board, tweaked some things and figured out what would have been the best. And I'm like, I'm going to be a better look so I can use it next time when I'm going to be a better look so I can use it next time when I show up on stage. And that's what I try to do with the clients. Like, is it a wholeness thing? Were we a little flat? Were we a little too watery? Let's dry you out. So maybe we can time our peak a little better. Right. And in defense of myself, because I agree with all that, 100%. There's a lot to learn between not only the prejudging and the finals, but even arguably into the next day. Yeah. What are you watering over? Did you water over like two hours after you came off stage for finals? Or did you not water over until Sunday night? Did you continue to fill out when you started eating a bunch of crap? You know, things like that. Yeah. My defense is I'm also not climbing the ladder. Yeah. You know what I mean? If I was, I mean, back in the day, it would have never occurred to me. Yeah. Okay. I'm not going to come back to finals. But, you know, this was supposed to be my last, you know, rodeo, which is part of the reason I almost went back out or went through the afternoon because I thought, you know what? I'll pay for the tickets for my family to be there because this is the last time they're going to see me. But at that point, I thought it's very possible that this might not be. I don't know if I can go out. Yeah. Yeah. On this note. So it was kind of funny because someone hit me up with this congratulatory. Oh, you made the top 10. I'm like, oh, great. And I'm like, no, I did. I'm like, so I check it and I'm like, I think I was 10th in the division. And I just had to laugh because I'm like, well, if they were keeping track of this, they'd yank the placing and the guy in the 11th spot would be pretty happy to make the top 10 where I'm like, yeah, F this. So, and again, it wasn't because I was pissed. I was just, I was over it at that point. And I didn't, you know, I didn't put the package up there that I knew that I could. And coming back was going to cost a lot of money for people that I didn't want to impact that way. For the audience to anybody who doesn't know what the state level shows, no matter what you get to pose. So if you are going to compete, you know, and you only pose once I've had people asking me lately, like, Hey, I'm doing masters and open and novice. Are they going to have me post three times? No, you only pose one time. But if you're at a big show, if you go to nationals, it's only the top guys that get to post. So when Skip says he's only coming out to hit a shot, it's literally like, and here's Skipp Hill, you know, you know, 523. And you come out and you hit your shot, they take a picture and then you walk off. And that's literally all you get. Yeah. The other thing too, like I think in your situation, Skip, which is a little different, because you also mentioned like you're not on the come up. Like this isn't like, you know, like you're in the twilight of your getting on stage career, right? Yeah. And you also probably knew that there weren't many things that you could change that day. Like from the feedback you were giving me about like say midsection distension or that kind of stuff, you're not going to magically solve that in six hours, four hours. And you walk on stage and be like, Oh shoot, we made a mistake. We need to rejudge this guy from 10th back into the final call out. Like that, that rarely happens at master's level. I mean, it rarely happens at the national level that they'll do a rejudge and it never has happened in my experience and all the national master shows I've ever been to. So I get your reasoning. I really do. And it wasn't six or seven. That was 10th. So it wasn't going to be like magically I was going to go from, you know, 10th to being in the top, you know, the top five. So it is what it is. But again, I, I still, I'm like you, Andrew. And I, and I think Scott, you do the same thing. I encourage my clients to enjoy the experience. The people have come out to support you and stuff. I think I would have, I think it was nine tickets. I would have had to, you know, purchase. And I say I had to purchase. I didn't need to, but I'm not going to put that on my kids who came in from Milwaukee and everything else. And trust me, they were just as excited to, you know, rib me about getting my ass kicked. You know, we have a weird, we have a weird dynamic in our family where, where we are funny like that. And we jab at each other, the things I talk about with my wife, some people go, oh my goodness, I can't believe you make those jokes about your wife. She does the same thing. It's a dynamic that we understand in our family. Exactly. It really is. And if not, if people don't think so, it's our healthy. So, you know. The other thing is that people don't understand is that your whole trip expense was a business expense. So, there's that too. So, going to the baseball game the next day, like, oh, you know. Yeah, exactly. So, yeah. Entertaining clients. Yep. So, I sent you guys over this one on text. I'm not going to read the whole thing, but basically the gist is that we have a prominent influencer coach who's gone on record saying to not blast and cruise. And his position is that he takes a certain level of gear, the lowest effective dose, and you stay on that long term as blood markers show that you're healthy. Then once you hit a plateau, he may increase a compound by 10 or 20%. So, for instance, this guy is 6'3", 275, dexa is at 6.5% body fat. And in the past, he used to do, you know, blasting crews, gram, gram, and half a gear, a bunch of GH, and he'd hit that hard for, you know, 12 weeks. And then he would come back down to TRT for eight weeks and then go back up versus now he's doing 70 milligrams of test daily, 20 milligrams of deca daily. And that's been through January through May. So, 730 total milligram load. Then May through current, 70 milligrams of test and 50 daily of VAR. So, 840 milligrams load. But let's keep in mind one of those is an oral. Antinia is a growth. Blood has continued to stay within range minus my HDL-16. Whoa! We're getting down into the... So... Getting closer to the single digits there. Really curious on your guys' opinions on this. I was going to say this is an excellent approach for this person until I saw that HDL. Until he started... If he didn't use VAR, it probably wouldn't have gone there, right? Maybe, maybe not. You know? It'd be interesting to see. So, oh, so he's using the VAR every single day for this whole stretch. Okay. Okay. So, I mean, I think this is kind of what a lot of us older guys do in a sense. Yes. And I think it all depends on the time you are in your life and your training age in terms of what you're trying to do. You know? Do I think this approach would work for the guests we had on the last show in terms of him maximizing his potential and reaching the pro stage in the next year and then having a pro career for the next five to ten years after that? I don't think so. You know? But I do think for guys that want to stay as TRT plus and healthy as possible at the same time, minus the antivirus Scott pointed out, yeah, I think this is a great approach. If your labs are telling you, then why am I going to sit here and dispute you and say that's wrong? You know? Yeah. I'm in the same camp. It's one of the reasons that I ran a three and a half year cycle back in the day. And I know that gets a lot of attention. People are like, oh, my God, that's so crazy. But my blood markers were all within range because I was younger and my body was more resilient. I wasn't doing anything on the side, whether it be drinking or anything else that was going to get in the way of that or, you know, make matters worse. I don't like the roller coaster ride of hormones. And it's funny because it has taken me how many years? I mean, I think I've used gear for the training for 41 years. I've used gear for over. I mean, we're looking at like over 30. So it's only recently that I've noticed the hormonal changes when I do come off and come down to TRT where it's like, oh, man, this is like what's going on. And then I realize, oh, man, after all these years, is it finally starting to impact me? I like everything to be on an even keel. I think that the body works better that way because it's not this constant up and down. Remember, when testosterone levels go up or down, estrogen goes up and down. We have all everything plays. All these hormones, this cascade of hormones is all synergistic and is trying to constantly keep everything in this balance or homeostasis. And it's harder to do when you're riding that roller coaster ride. The HDL, the only thing I would say is this, and I wonder what you guys think. I don't think having a low HDL for short periods of time is all that detrimental. Obviously, it adds up over the years. So if I've been using gear for 30 years or 30-plus years and I go four or five months out of the year where my HDL is crashing and the rest of the year it's not, obviously that's probably not going to be as healthy in the long term as if I were not crashing or my HDL wasn't in the shitter for those four or five months. But I don't think that, especially when you're younger and you don't know how long you're going to be doing this, and I always say plan for the long term because I never thought that I'd be alive at this point, quite frankly. And I don't mean that from a gear standpoint. I'm talking about the naivety of when I was younger, 50, I just was incomprehensible. I just couldn't believe that I would have any type of life. I thought I'd be drooling on myself in a nursing home or something. You're close, right? You're close to that. Come on, getting there. Yeah, getting there. But I think that those short-term lower HDLs are not as alarming to me as they are to a lot of people or other people. So if you're going to do that for eight, nine months out of the year, that's different. That's going to add up quickly. And then you get into other health things that aren't necessarily being monitored by just blood work. As an example, your calcium score.  So the blood work, so the blood work is important, but it's not necessarily the last word. There can be other things that are going on and depending when you're doing your blood work. Are you looking at it only when you're doing your blood work? Are you looking at it only when you're off? And when you're in your best, you know, hormonal panel milieu? Or are you doing it also when you're at your worst so that you can contrast the two and see how much stress and what you're doing to your body when you're taking the maxx? or amount of hormones for the longest, I think the longest, I think the longest, I think the best time to do blood work is about two weeks before a show. It's not terribly practical, but that'll tell you. And then you can contrast that to three months later, you know, something like that to, to be able to see how bad does it get. I'd say this, that it's, I like the concept and I do this too, especially with, you know, I'll work with guys who say, have a substantial amount of body fat to lose and they want to run gear too. And they come to me with the old school approach that, all right, man, I want to work with you. I want to really figure this diet thing out. And I want to run a good cycle. I've run this, this, and this in the past. I was thinking we do 500 of this and 400 of that and add in, you know, 50 of this every day. And my thought is this, that in the way I've started wording it, the way I've looked at it for a couple of years now is that when we start start up a, like a good cycle or let's say, let's just take an oral. When we start an oral up, I feel like we are on the clock until we have to stop taking that. So I ask myself like, okay, you take a guy who you, cause Andrew, you said at the beginning of this, I think we're doing this, especially with a lot of older guys. You know, if I've got a guy who's in his forties and he needs to lose, let's face it, 75 pounds of fat. And he also does want to run gear. I'm not going to tell him like at all, you can't run gear until you get in shape, buddy. Like I get it. Right. You want to run gear and it might, in fact, a little bit of gear might even kind of like boost morale. He's getting stronger in the gym. It's kind of, we get momentum behind him and it keeps them good and plugged in. If we do that with low doses, we can do that longer term versus if we use that traditional cycle that he, that he proposes to me, we got to be in and out in 12, 16 weeks and some, you know, something traditional. We're only going to be able to make so much time, so much progress in that amount of time. We have a much bigger project that needs to happen here, but that's where then for me, that's where compound choices come in. I am definitely not going to pick orals for this. Like I just wouldn't be using orals period for a long-term project like this. Like he was probably doing just fine with that test and DECA, you know, long-term. Right. But I'm not going to put somebody on VAR long-term because I know what's going to happen. If I did use it, it may be at the very end of something or intermittently. Maybe we're using an oral just on specific training days, you know, or for periods of time on and off, but it's not going to be like the mainstay, uh, anabolic driver through this portion of the year. That'd be my thought on it. But I don't think it's crazy talk by any means. No, I want to know who the influencer is that I do too. As well. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe it's better that we don't know. And then we give our opinions without bias, but we did, we did give our opinions. Now I want to know who, if you're in the comments, type in who the influencer is, or I guess that's his coach. Yeah. I mean, if it's working for you, like whenever something's working and someone, you know, this all you can't do that. It's like, well, if it's working, it's working, you know, that that's my general thing, you know? And it's like, you guys are familiar with the term, like, you know, people don't have ideas, ideas have people, you know, it's like, if it's a good idea, like more and more people are going to have them over time as they see, you know, the data, as they see what's happening in our sport and they're going to gravitate towards those good ideas. So yeah, I don't have a problem with this at all. All right. Hey guys, I want to see your opinions on self-coaching. I coached myself for my first bodybuilding show placed in the middle, definitely manipulated my water too low and almost tried to reinvent the wheel during my peak week. But my question is, I'm obsessed with self-improvement and I want to figure out what works best for my body and just hate relying upon other people. Can I do well at the sport or do I need to just suck it up and get a coach? Yes or no. I mean, so you can still self-discover while working with a coach. Like if the coach is making moves, you can learn without even asking questions, just mentally taking notes and writing. I mean, you have the file from the coach. This is what we're doing. And then you can make a self-assessment. Did this prep work? Did this strategy work? And kind of glean from that. And then maybe you work with a different coach that does things a little differently, maybe completely differently. You can learn from that coach too. I think a lot of coaches work with a lot of coaches early on in their careers and then they learn a lot of different techniques, methods, whatnot. And then that's what is the kind of the foundation of their coaching, right? There's a lot that just take their coach's plan, maybe change a few details and then ship it out to other people. We've all seen those. I don't know if you guys have ever gotten your own plan sent back to you from someone that was inquiring. I have. I write certain things in very unique ways. I got a spreadsheet. I got one of my spreadsheets like with just the name change. And I'm like, and I have a, not that it's like some proprietary material, but like adds the macros and it just spits out everything. And I'm like, where'd you get this? And they're like, wait, why? And I'm like, no, where'd you get this? And it turned out it was one of my old clients that was coaching them before. But I don't get mad about it. I kind of laugh about it because you made it to me anyway, you know? So, um, but in terms of self-coaching, if you want to take probably a longer way to get to your best, yeah, do it yourself. But I think it's incumbent on you if you want to get your fastest results in bodybuilding, you should probably hire a good coach with a good reputation, a good track record of bringing people in and shape regularly. I think that's, you're going to learn fastest that way. I think you're going to solve two birds or kill two birds with one stone that way. And then maybe you can go off on your own after that. Yeah, I don't have too much to add to that. You pretty much hit 99% of what I, what I think. I think though, too, and this is speaking for myself, from my own experience, I always had this bizarre level of pride that all these years I never worked with anybody. Arguably, you know, it does take longer. Thankfully, I've been doing it so long that there weren't any coaches when I first started anyway. So I didn't really have that option. And when I say I didn't, you know, I haven't worked with anybody, it doesn't mean that I haven't learned, you know, from people. Just in interacting, you know, even us doing the podcast together as long as we have or PED or, you know, people that I looked up to when I was a teenager and learned from them just by asking them questions in the gym and things like that. I certainly have learned a lot from a lot of people. Zilla. Zilla is, you know, arguably, even though he wasn't my coach because I never paid him, he probably was the most, well, not probably, but he was the most influential person to me. Because without him, I don't think I would have ended up where I am today and I would have gotten started coaching people and things like that. It was far, far less likely, I guess is the better way to put it. So you can definitely save a lot of time, a lot of time. I mean, that's what, what are you paying for? You're paying for the experience and the knowledge that you don't have. And you're paying well for it usually. So if you're not, you need to question that. You know, it's typically, not always, but typically you, you know, people are getting what they're worth. So if you're, if you're paying well, you should be getting a lot of experience and a lot of knowledge. And that's time that saves you time and time is cliche as it sounds money. You just got to get older before you figure that out. And you have only have so much time to make progress. So the more progress you can make now, and that's the way I looked at coaching from the start was, I'm going to try this on. I'm going to see what happens. And I'm going to then see how that applies to me. He's going to throw ideas at me that I wouldn't have thought of. And I'm going to learn more about myself. I think sometimes too, people come to me and I'm sure you guys hear this too. Like, oh, I really want to learn from you. And I, I am probably guilty of over explaining things, why we're doing the things we do and the way we do it. But at the same time, there is an element of like, nothing was ever explained to me. Nobody ever told me, like, this is why we're going to do what we're going to do with the water, Scott. It was just do this with the water, Scott. And I listened. And guess what? I learned from it. Because that's, to me, it's not the educate. The education doesn't come from me telling you, oh, well, did you know that when we split these two atoms that there's hydrogen molecule? Like, that's not what works. That's not learning. Learning is, for me at least, the way I learn is by doing and then seeing the results. So I didn't have to have somebody tell me when I was coached, like, here's the reasons why we're doing it. I just followed the directions and then I saw the reasons why. I think that there's, there's something to that, you know? Well, 100%, to piggyback off that, a good learner in this bodybuilding thing.  is someone that doesn't have to literally even ask questions why, because you're observant, right? Unless you just have a shit coach that has just blown you off, but you have a good coach that has a good record, right? And they're making moves. It's incumbent on you, I think, because as coaches, we're not trying to train you to become the next us to the, you know, go out there and take all of our clients away, right? Like, like, yeah, we want to help people, but it's like, you're paying me for a service, and I'm definitely going to educate you along the way if you are someone that observes and then thinks about it yourself. That's, I mean, that's, I mean, that's, every topic on, not just bodybuilding, not just bodybuilding, that's how I learned, is, you don't need to, like, put it out there for me on a piece of paper. Show me what we're doing, and then let me go and think about it. If I have a crazy question, I'll ask you, but, like, you know what I mean? Like, show me what we're doing, and it's on me to think about, okay, so this is the state I'm in. This is why he's having me do this. It's either this or that. Okay. You know what I mean? Yeah, like, Ron and Dusty are both great coaches, and, you know, they really get people in awesome shape. I've seen both of them do it countless times. They learned a lot from Chris Asito. Do you think Chris broke it down for them each time they made a change? Never. Right. I know it doesn't. It was like two words, you know? Yeah. But I think that's the evolution of coaching, isn't it? It used to be, when I started, no coaching, then the coaches were just about results. You could literally treat your clients like crap, and they were just, like, you know, privileged to be working with you, you know, that type of thing. Then it became, oh, okay. Now there's a lot of people who are, who not only know their shit, but they're given, you know, their experience and their knowledge. So then it becomes this thing where, and I changed my approach on it early on, thankfully, was you're paying for results, but you're paying equally, or it should be equally as important that you're able to translate and, I don't want to say hand off, but for lack of a better way to explain it, your experience and your knowledge. And I think that that allows you as a coach to charge higher fees for that reason. So I think that's where, as the, you know, as I've said before, the giant sea of turds got larger. It has allowed, instead of, oh, so-and-so is taking clients from me that I could potentially have, it allows those fees to go up for the people who are going above and beyond the results. There's a lot of people who can get results. I mean, there's a lot of people who are good at it who aren't known. Being able to explain to your client while you're doing it, that the education side of things, I think creates better compliance too. You know, like you're going to get somebody on board. Sure. And it also weeds out those people like Andrew was talking about who literally will steal information. We've all had it happen from Meadows to, you know, Andrew and it's happened to me. It happened to you, Scott, I'm sure. Sure. So it weeds those trainers out a little bit because they're not going to be able to answer those questions. Yeah. And I've always told my clients, if you ask a question about why I'm asking you to do something and I can't answer it, you need to run in the other direction. Not just with me, but any other coach because that just says you don't, you can't back up what you're. Let me give one caveat to that. Sometimes people are like, wait, why are we doing this? And I'll say, I don't know. I want to see what happens. There are those times where you just want to see the response. Yeah. I want to see what the response is, right? Whether it's adding food when you think the move would be to pull food or, you know what I'm saying? Sure. So it's really because to me, coaching is reading and reacting. You know, what is your body telling me right now? What are some of the appropriate moves we need to make to continue moving forward with whatever the goal is? But I don't think, Andrew, I don't think, I'm being funny when I say this is arguably rhetorical, but I don't think you're telling your clients if they ask you 20 questions. 19 and a half of the times you're going, because my gut says, you know, this is, just do it, you know, that type. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Versus the coach that just simply says that over and over, trust the process or, you know, something like that. The biggest thing I hear is when people say the trust the process thing. And like someone has literally stayed the same fucking pound, your same weight, lost the same pound, gained the same pound for like 10 weeks. And like trust the process. And it's like, yeah, my show is three weeks away. I look the same as I did. And I feel bad for those people. It's like, you're a good client. You're a great client because you did trust the process, but you got, you got bamboozled by someone. And I'll be honest, dude, sometimes you've got to have these conversations with people where you're like, Hey, your body's not responding. We've literally tried X, Y, and Z and every other thing we can do. Your body's not responding right now. I really don't think it's a me thing. I think it's your body's just telling us it's not time to do this right now. So we need to lower stress, probably detox your liver, regroup, and then we're going to try this again in four or five months. But, and, and it's the worst, it's the hardest thing to have to tell someone that has their sights set on a particular show. Right. Right. But I'll be very honest. And anyone, any coach that does this, that says they never have to pull people out of prep, you're full of shit. Yeah. Okay. Because those clients leave you before you actually tell them the truth. Yeah. Okay. But one, a big pet peeve I have right now is I'm seeing all these mentorship programs and some of them are good. So I'm not going to say they're all shit. Sure. But I'm seeing some of these mentorship programs where just any Joe Blow who hasn't even competed in a contest yet can sign up with a coach because they think the coaching platform looks really cool. And they think that that's a career I want to do. Right. And they sign up with a coach and they, or yeah, a mentoring coach and they pay them a thousand bucks a month to teach them everything you know. And they're teaching them a lot of textbook stuff. But the said coach who's teaching that doesn't have pro cards. They don't even have 10 class wins. Okay. For themselves or their clients. So to me, it's like, there's a little fake in it before you make it in this industry, but sometimes it just goes too far. And I got to call out the hypocrisy. It's just crazy. Yeah. All right. Let's rapid fire through some stuff. We do have a bunch of them. We'll see if we can get through these quickly. I got a moment. With movement towards Nandrolone for bulking since DHTs are gone. What's the best way to dose it? I've seen recommendations of having tests higher than NPP or DECA. I've seen arguments that low test TRT dosing even with high DECA as the primary anabolic is better for side effects perspective. I'm going to first say one. Can I agree more than 100, disagree more than 100% on that last statement? I don't know. What do you guys think? With TRT test and high DECA. Oh, with DECA running higher than test and lower side effects. I know there are outliers, but I just completely disagree with that. Yeah. I mean, it's a lot healthier if you're not getting your labs done. And I do also feel like it's a Middle Eastern thing. I feel like any guy I've had from the Middle East, they're 200 tests, very high on the Nandrolones. Not to a T, but very frequently I've seen that. Guys from Iran or from those areas that have reached out for coaching over the years. So guys over there don't like sex, apparently. I don't know. I'm not going to go there. No, but I mean, why not just do like a test EQ NPP and have a nice off-season, grow, eat food, and save what little mast or, you know, premobolin you have for your contest prep, you know? Yeah. Well, he's just saying how do you dose DECA with test or NPP with test? Like, would you go higher test generally? Oh, yeah. That was the question. Yeah. I think everyone's freaking out about Masteron and Premobolin. But I don't think it's going to have as bad of an effect as everyone's thinking. You know what I mean? Agreed. Oh, yeah. Agreed. I think it's a lot of big to do about nothing. I just don't think it's as big a to do about nothing, you know? So. All right. I would say generally if I had somebody running, I would run higher tests. I would say, you know, maybe if I'm running 400 tests, maybe 300 NPP would be good with me. I'd try that. See how that goes. I'd go a little higher in the test personally. No, I'm saying like if I had a guy who was running 400 tests, like that's where he's at. Like, hey, I want to run tests. I don't want to run a lot. I want to run 400. Then I would run it at 400, 300. And I'd try that. And if it didn't work, then I would ask him, hey, let's bump the test. You think he'd have. Are you saying that you think that you would want a larger amount of tests, though, to offset the NPP? Is that what you're saying? Or you just want more tests, period. Or lower Nandolo. I would. Or lower Nandolo. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Okay. And again, we're not ratio guys, but it's not like a 2 to 1 or a 2.5 to 1. But there's just something in my brain that says, if you're running 400 tests, 300 NPP, I think you're going to be telling me your dick doesn't work. I think you're going to be saying, like, you're going to be complaining, basically. I would. And I'm going where you're going, Andrew. You don't want to lock into that black and white ratio, but I would take a 2 to 1. Something like that. Oh, 2 to 1. I'd be good with that. Or at least close to that. Closer to that. 1,600, 1,500, you know, in there somewhere. But even if he, well, what if, okay, what if he says, I only want to take 400 tests still? 200, 250. Okay, that's where I'm, that's where I'm at. Yeah, I'd be good with that. But it's not much different. Yeah. I mean, we're talking about, oh, 250 instead of 300. I just want to disagree with Scott. You know what I mean? I think 200 is different than 300, though. I mean, it's 66%, right? There you go. So you're dropping 33% of one drug. Yep. If we had issues, then I'd just say, hey, let's increase the test a little bit. Yeah. You know? Yeah. What do you guys think of Dave Palumbo's roid tests? Mixed results. I think, well, it's caught some D-ball that was labeled as Anabar for a girl once because I tested it personally for her with her kit. But then...  It also said that like three other things were D-ball, and I knew for a fact they weren't because they were Janushek tested, so there's that. Yeah. I don't like them. I don't have the experience to be able to comment on it. I've used them a couple times, and I just feel like they're, there's a subjective nature to trying to read these colors. Yes. Is this brown? Or is this brown? Or is this brown green? Or is it brown green? Or is it brown green? Or brown yellow? Yep. You're so right about that. So it's brown? So it's brown? So it's brown? So it's brown? So it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that it's brown check that check that check that check that check that check that check that check that check this you guys know who he is and he was like and so we we are like let's Larry let's try it he ran primo didn't like it he's like I don't notice anything he's like I think it's just test probe and I was the guy I knew where he got it from and I'm very confident in the source to the point where then I'm talking to the source and then I get primo from the source and I run it got everything I would have expected from primo but when we roid tested it it was hard to tell it came out like looking foggy and so inclusive yeah yeah yeah all right what else do we have here um question for the next episode what do you think about mixing two esters of the same compound like making your own blend for example test sip with probe skip or her deco with NPP great I mean yeah like is there a problem with it or like what's the is it not going to work effectively is it is there trouble with the oil the the compounds is he thinking the esters are going to mix and become a different ester or something I think he's saying is there any benefit to running running it that way versus just running oh okay yeah yeah like testosterone sure yeah testosterone sure absolutely yeah I mean especially if you're someone that's not going to dose it you know daily or every other day there's absolutely some benefits to running something like a test like a sustenon blend yeah I'm a big fan of the sip probe that I think that's probably why you touched on that when you read yeah yeah question yeah yeah but not a fan of sustenon yeah all right DHB low dose subq to deal with the PIP any experiences no I feel like that would hurt worse honestly yeah I was gonna say if you get pipped from an im injection I don't think you're gonna be enjoying the the subq injection oh I had an injection issue yesterday worth talking about and actually yeah if you want I'll send you a picture real quick it's interesting as all hell I took a shot of mott c and and this is a bottle I had mixed up and I'd taken like maybe three weeks off of it and um I took it before going to the gym yesterday and within 30 seconds I felt this heat rush going up my midsection and I pulled my shirt up and it's turning red in front of me and raising the skin's raising so let me send you the picture right now it's pretty wild like I don't know if the picture even does it justice but I showed it to my training partner she's like what is that what's it doing today it's always gone within 10 uh it was gone within an hour and a half they didn't bruise or anything no but no no it wasn't bruising like it the skin raised like probably five to ten millimeters oh it can't be ten millimeters here probably two to three millimeters from the surface of the dermal layer and hardened and lean by the way lean belly button you've got there we're starting we're starting we're we're I mean I always stay like fairly lean but yeah I started doing cardio again the other day nice yeah it doesn't look there you go no no that does not look like it's supposed to right like see do you see how it's raised like the edges and um it was obviously an allergic reaction but um the craziest thing is I've been using this bottle and maybe like I said I took two weeks off of it um because I've been I think I told you guys I've been experiencing tachycardia um out of the blue and maybe I didn't tell you so I went through okay so I went through and I pulled anything I was taking out because I wanted to start from base zero and I was still having it so I'm like okay it's not this it's not that um how long was everything out for uh I think maybe three weeks so okay so good chunk of time like long enough to you know like on the on the thing like motzi I pulled slu out I pulled um methylene blue I pulled anything that could even remotely be causing that I or and I'm not saying it did just anything that maybe there's some inconclusive research on or maybe we don't know about this side effect yet I pulled anything that was experimental that I was doing out and yeah so I'm still experiencing it so it's kind of weird um and here's the thing solution did it oh the the um the compound uh motzi no I mean it's still mixed perfectly I'm gonna throw the bottle away but um hey honestly maybe some air got in there and it reacted with the re the um stabilizing agent or I don't know but but it's a bottle I'd use 20 times or 15 times no issues before yeah yeah really should start looking at liver values if you're running DHB over 20 milligrams a day I really am getting tired of every time we talk about DHB somebody starts to oh man inflammation I've seen multiple people now that have not had high inflammation nor have they had high liver values who have done very well with DHB I really think that that whole inflammation thing is highly overstated and it's just like internet youtube dogma now that somebody must say it if something comes up because there is a video done on it saying that it happens so they're in the know yeah yeah know what I mean yeah exactly I'm with you too I'm not seeing that in people's labs but like no different than any other standard pd cycle yeah yeah are there any aas uh that increase immune system no uh yes ll37 ll37 oh okay traditional steroids would suppress the immune system in general correct yes oh I'm sorry do you say aas yeah I'm sorry I thought just peds peptides all that stuff my brain was but no you're right a um as far as I know traditional peds or traditional aas anabolic steroids will be immunosuppressive um but I don't know about ll37 what's that it's a peptide but hold on uh I wish I wish I saw this question beforehand I would have dove into the research because I save like probably like you guys I have like a thousand research studies saved in my bookmarks yeah I feel like I saw one and of course it could be one out of the 50 that they did on anivar I thought I saw one on anivar okay for being immunoprotective but I'll tell you what it wouldn't be the first thing I'd go to you know of course or immune system health I would think there's a lot of other directions we talked about vitamin d on one of the I think one of the last episodes that's a huge one I'd start there and I'd look at there's some great health supplements that really could benefit you glutathione could be really good but vitamin d is the number one place in that when I was talking about the high dosing that's a major booster you guys want to know about the ll37 I'm pulling my notes up on it yeah tell us about i'm listening referred to as human antimicrobial peptide plays a role in the immune system um let's see it has broad broad spectrum antimicrobial activity against bacteria viruses and fungi by disrupting mitochondrial membranes similar to how like antibiotics work degrading the membrane helps prevent infection at barrier sites like skins lungs gut urinary tract and then in terms of immune system activation it's an immunomodulator so basically it recruits immune cells like chemotaxis of neutrophils monocytes t cells mast cells and enhances phagocytosis which is like where basically they come in the they engulf the pathogens with macrophages to do the cleanup so like talking cellular level type stuff um and then it also stimulates angiogenesis so like new blood vessel growth okay which leads to wound and tissue repair let me see if i got anything else in here um binds and neutralizes lipopolysaccharides from gram negative bacteria preventing sepsis like inflammation so so i've used it with some people um with compromised immune systems with i would say arguably some positive results put it this way if you have an if you have a deficiency you have a high infection risk for like your skins your lungs your digestive system um but if you have really high levels of it because you don't want to go too high on it chronic inflammation um autoimmune you can have some autoimmune issues or stimulate autoimmune disease if you're prone to them um but yeah would you rather fight three current age skip hills or one prime age Dave Crosland  the guy up by his neck and pounded him and then the answer is fight three of me i think i think you'll be safe yeah don't be an uber driver if you're an uber driver don't show up near where i live when you got three skips you got three pp's when you got dave over in uk you got oh yeah he's got none you could not run dave just run from dave just keep running around him it's a 380 i have to pistol with you but he was 400 pounds he's 400 pounds right and his heaviest i mean just trip him run and jump oh i would andrew wouldn't i have to run and jump on a springboard to be able to try to get to his head oh dude i'd fuck i'd put everything i have at that knee i'd put everything i have at that knee injure his knee to bring him to his knees right and then go to town on him that i mean that's how you're gonna beat a giant like that right he uh he had some great stories he's told me some stuff like when i was out there with him about and he's talked about some of it on the air because he used to run a security company in the uk where he organized all the bouncers for all the clubs and all of that and then there was scenarios where like there were organizations that also were affiliated with the clubs and that they'd kind of like points where they butted heads with people and he ended up like having a a sit-down meeting with groups of people at various like there's some crazy uk stories you know old school old school style something a little different over there yeah yeah does that does he have any um i mean without getting specific but i mean does he have any like trauma emotional baggage the reason i ask don't you have to answer that i don't have any so if i get into AI don't have any like i i wasn't like traumatized when i was i don't have anything that really angers me unless you go after my my wife or my kids so if you fight me then you have to deal just with coordination and athletic a bit i understand that i'm older and everything i'm just saying that's what you'd be fighting you wouldn't be fighting emotion or this like freak out get crazy you know drawing on something traumatic from my past i don't know just yeah i just have a feeling dave was uh have you ever watched the under construction films that he was in because they had two movies on him uh they're documentaries under construction one and under construction two and where he was like just like this is my goal to get as big as humanly possible and they had to get weighed in on like a freight scale and stuff like that it was dark it was dark i think a man like that has to have some darkness in him to to do that yeah back when i was in college i wanted to start a like a supplement or a clothing company called buc for body under construction and i wanted to have like pictures like and this is i didn't know who dave was but my image was like guys like dave like on the you know the picture the cartoon picture of him like like just this massive larger than life yeah um but i was poor and i didn't have money to start it up you know that's funny because i did t-shirts where it was a construction sign yeah because my my business before team skip one-on-one training was um fitness concepts and on the back it had the construction sign and where you would it would normally say under construction it said under instruction but it was playing off of that black and yellow you know type of type of thing so it's funny apparently we all were not anywhere near as original as we thought we were we all had the same concept but one more from james question for all as coaches your close friend is being prepped by a reputable coach this coach seems to have built his reputation on riding fail-proof bodybuilders to the top his protocols with your close friend make no sense and he's clearly just there to take his money carelessly do you intervene and say something to protect your friend or do the professional thing and stay out of another coach athlete relationship is the athlete looking better every week is his friend you know what i mean yeah yeah and actually that reminds me i've got a client from australia who had a very high profile coach and he said we he actually wanted to either come on the show or said we could use his information because the protocols that this guy had him running for in terms of like at least carving up like for instance like 200 grams of oatmeal at like 330 in the morning and a men's physique guy when he hadn't had oatmeal all prep all of a sudden oh wow and then another 100 grams of oatmeal like two hours before getting on stage and then um without even seeing what he looked like also no pictures and kind of like here's the plan follow it or don't one of those types of things and then no contact till after the show he i mean that was i think one that was the reason why actually he started talking to me two weeks before this because he knew where it was going and so yeah that's rough yeah and i think he wanted to kind of put the coach on blast and he's like hey if any of your shows if you guys if you want to talk about it i'm like i don't love calling people out by name but like maybe we talk about the protocol and why we think there's holes in it you know yeah there that's the relationship with the kid with his or the guy with his friend it would his friend be open to hearing it or is it going to sound like you're just jealous because i'm working with so and so right yeah that depends i guess i would want to see like is he making progress is he looking the part like he showed x weeks out from the show and maybe you just as a friend maybe you just don't know some of the x's and o's of coaching you know um right if like i always say if someone's getting results with something then it works maybe it looks odd to you but it's working so yeah i have a friend who's at a very high high very high level and uh this friend's and i found out some of the stuff that this friend's coach was having them do and it was weird like like when i say old school i mean like real old like no salt like all prep pulling all sodium out like six weeks out all sodium including like i found out i can't take this supplement because there's a preservative in it that contains sodium gotcha that level of yeah let's you can only drink distilled water for the last like six weeks yeah yeah yeah don't i i think this person could brush their teeth their breath didn't smell i at least i didn't catch that but it was weird it was weird but they were doing real good still although i knew that they could look better was the thing and i'm not saying like oh i was the person that was going to take over uh although i think i could have done a better job honestly well because that's how it sounds right is when you right when you when you bring something up it sounds like you're sales pitching and that's not the case which is why i try to when people try to tell me what their coach i'm like i don't not my business yeah i don't want to hear about it like if you're ready to make a switch let me know because you're not you don't have faith in that coach but it's not my business right now so also if you do let's say you start playing it's almost like you're planting seeds of to not like like you said andrew because if they're like doing okay right like they're doing all right this person i knew is winning big shows uh but like you don't want to you don't want to get in the middle of that and start planting seeds of mistrust you know what i'm saying it's like if it's working the other thing i like to say though about a lot of these you know big name coaches is does the athlete look the way they do despite what the coach is doing or because of what the coach is doing you know would they have looked like you said scott i think he can look a lot better you know if he had some sodium if he you know didn't restrict as well whatever it might be you know she yeah what did we tell a 21 year old oh oh or she what did we tell a 21 year old only about an hour ago not that people in your ear yeah a lot of your ear you know yeah but people are coming to him because here's the thing he's going to get dms from a lot of coaches that are in my circle like in terms of people i know right that they do some shady shit they get into people's dms like yo bro like i'll coach you for free i'll get you a kid a gh a month like let me coach you you know they'll do that kind of shit okay um to me that's just horrible and actually it's funny because i'm thinking of somebody that would do that chris tuttle told me a story about how this very coach did that to him about with a client seven years ago offered him a kid of gh i'll coach you for free we'll get you pro card etc he was telling me about somebody else who was trying to push one of his clients recently he was upset about it and we were talking about some people that even i was kind of surprised you know it's like oh that dude was all right you know i think a lot of the viewers would be surprised at the cd we had him on the show but yeah behind the scenes i think i think people would be very surprised at the things that we know and the stories that we have that we really the things that skip says are we got you're not in the air are we we're not live are we yeah we're not live are we you know after i'm halfway through saying what i'm gonna say and here's the thing too i'll say this just one other thing on that topic is that so when i first started coaching and i would see somebody that maybe wasn't looking as good as i would want them to look i would be a lot faster to say something you  But guess what, I was fricking dumb, because I didn't have nearly the, maybe not even coaching, maybe not even coaching, I should even say like when I was bought like first bodybuilding and having an idea of what to do, somebody, somebody, somebody else say that was in the gym that had a coach and they're working on a program and they're competing in the same show I am and they tell me like oh we're doing this and you know and I look at him like man that guy's not nearly as lean as he should be, I'd be a lot faster to say like oh well you should really pull your carbs down or you should adjust, Yeah, that was the thing is what I'm saying is back, I guess, years ago. I'm talking 15 years ago. The confidence level when you first started was higher. It really is. And the more you know, the more you – Just shut the F up. Right. Yeah. Exactly. Because you really don't know all the factors. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Same thing with anybody who comes to one of your clients. It's like you guys are doing the best you can. Somebody else is like, oh, really? Skip should have you doing this instead. Right. Yep. Oh, well. Anyway, we appreciate you guys being here. Thanks for tuning in. Go to BodyBerry.com. Reach out to Andrew for coaching. Go to TeamSkip.com. Skip, what was your word of the day, by the way? I don't know. I don't even think I – What was it, Andrew? Milieu. We used Milieu earlier. Milieu. Milieu. That's right. And what is Milieu mean? It's essentially your current environment or everything that goes into – I think you should have pulled it up. Yeah. Yeah. Everything that – Okay. So, well, this is a horrible way to explain it, right? But it's like you're making a solution of something. You're making a coffee. Yeah. And you've got coffee with water. You put some creamer. You put some sugar. And in that milieu, you have three different ingredients, right? Yeah. And in the sense of like bodybuilding, it's like, well, in the hormonal milieu of your bloodstream, you have GH working. You have insulin working. You have aldosterone. You have – yeah. I mean, that's a horrible – that's not the definition. I'm trying to use examples. And the purview gets kind of close too. Purview? I don't know that word. Purview. Yeah. It's funny because I've heard it a lot. I'm watching Blue Bloods. I don't know if you guys have seen – I don't know how I missed this show to begin with. But anyway, I'm in season 13 and they use this word a handful of times. And it's not a common word, but it has its parallels too. Milieu, when I worked with the kids, was that environment that the kids were in. So everything that was going on in that particular, say, cottage, kids' cottage, was that milieu or the milieu of Miller Cottage. And hit me up, McNallyDietes.gmail.com. Check out your nutrition.com. Use our code, thinksupplementsource.ca for our Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. Guys, leave us questions for the next show. And if you're new here, if you've been watching this long, then definitely you should really be subscribed and ring the bell. And hit the hype button. There's a hype button now. All right, guys. We'll see you. Nice.