Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partllo and of course I'm here with Dusty Handshaw and the producer Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. Okay. And remember.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your allin. And everyone should get on the gear. Yes. And of course, for those of you who don't quite get that joke, the gear is their EAAs, right? Yeah. We should probably start telling that. G E A R. Yeah. The gear. The gear. Yes. Okay. So, um, we're not going to talk about hockey. I know we finished the last episode doing that. We're going to open with the Pittsburgh Pro controversy. I mean, is it controversial to rob a bank because you robbed Nicks. Um, do you think it was a flatout robbery, Dusty? Like, let's get that out of the way. Like, what do you think? You think it was a flatout robbery? No, let's talk about what we did over the weekend while it was happening. We were all talking, three of us in our group chat and when I watched the videos, I said, "I think Nick's winning." Then I saw still at the show. Yeah. Then I saw still pictures and I said, "I think Derek is winning." And it wasn't until someone who I trust very much that was there put up a a post breaking down the show, which is Ian, and I said, "Okay, Nick's winning." Because the way he broke it down was what I saw in videos. The pictures were a lot more clear than the videos, which made me think, "Ah, Dererick's got it." Um, but once he broke it down as being there, I said, you know, I gotta go with Ian because it looks solid. So, do I think it was a robbery? No. I think it was a 15 to 15 score by the end with Nick winning the prejudging by one point and Dererick winning the night by one point. And then something had to happen. What do you guys see? Um, well, I watched the live stream. I paid the what is it? Well, be $29.99 American, which is like, you know, $300 Canadian at this point. Um, as our dollar as our dollar continually gets at least it wasn't next week. It'll cost more. Amazing government. Um, yeah. So, I uh I watched the live stream. Braden came over and we put it up on my big screen and we watched the finals. Nice. And um, so what I saw these pictures we're going to go back to, Scott, I need those. Yeah. All right. All right. So, he thought Nick was winning. Braden thought Nick was winning. He's like, "Nick's going to win." Like right down to like when they did the tiebreaker, he's like, "I think Nick's going to win." But yeah, I wasn't that sure. I thought Derek could win this. And at the very last call out when they did the tiebreaker and then they asked them to switch sides, I was like, "Oh, I know this sounds weird, but when they asked them to switch sides, Yeah. I suddenly thought it made a difference. Huh? M I kind of went like, "Oh, wait a minute. Derek's going to win." And I know that the guys doing the commentary, Ian and Fouad and um when they when they did the back double bicep, they were saying, "Well, look at Nick's hamstrings." Yeah, Nick's hamstrings are so crazy. Yeah, they really were, too. And I was like, "Yeah, yeah, they are." But Derek's back is still better and his crazy glutes. And his glutes are still like Phil Heath style Flex Lewis Flex Lewis style ripple chip super super super quality shredded glutes which is like I know that's not how you judge a show but it's just not Yeah. I mean it looks like he's never taken a shot, right? And and um he hasn't. And his hamstrings are still good. Like he Derrick's not the best at flexing his hams in the back shots. He's not the best at displaying that pose for his hams. But that he still had a better back. He's got thicker back down the middle. The back double's chunkier. Um but then Nick's arms are crazier from the back. Yeah. Right. So like then a back double the arms make a big difference. So it was it was so close. I I would say that that was fair enough the closest call I have seen in years and years at a show. That was a fair tiebreaker. Like for them to say we need a tiebreaker. I didn't think that was weird. I thought, "Holy, they're really really trying to get this right." Mhm. At the end of the day, I think Derek's quads from the front, even though his quads weren't as nutty as at the Arnold when he was like perfect. His quads still have deeper separation than Nick's, they still have more striations when he locks his leg out. Mhm. Um, he still has a cleaner kind of look in some of the poses. Like his conditioning may have been a like like don't even want to use the wrong word, but his condition might have been better. Um, which is why I think they went with him. When they break down the poses, I had I had the front double is difficult because Nick has better arms. Yeah. But I thought Derrick has better up real quick, Scott. I think Nick Nick has like Nick Nick's arms are just like massive bicep peaks with like crazy gnarly like they're they're better arms. Dererick's biceps aren't his strong point. He kind of has like a a full round flatter muscle belly. Um I think that I think that Nick has a more monstrous look, but it's definitely not prettier. And I think that that's probably what the separation was. You know, you can go I had it four poses to four poses is how I broke it down. That's how I had them winning out of the seven mandatories and the most muscular. I had it four poses to four poses, which is why they would have a tie. It makes sense. But at the end of the day, see, I think Derrick's back is better there. He's got a wider, thicker back than Nick. I know it's like minor, and then Nick's hamstrings are crazy, but it, man, it was so [\h__\h] close. And I think the reason they went with Derek is just because he's a tad prettier. See, I think Dererick wins that shot. Clearly, it's hard for Derek to lose that shot. The rear double. It's hard to lose that shot. The rear double biceps definitely his. I had him with the rear lat spread, too. Even though the hams are better on Nick. I know the guys online were saying, um, the front lat spread I actually gave to Derek because there's something about Nick's front lat spread I don't quite like yet, right? Um, it's like I don't know what it is, but I just think he doesn't win that pose outright. Um, I thought that he won the most muscular. Nick definitely won the most muscular. Derek has a problem with his most muscular. He It's like he doesn't flex his pecs. People say his pecs aren't striated, but they are. He just isn't like crunching them like you know when you know when like when I did the most muscular when most like you did them, Dusty, you push your hands together and the pecs go and they rake out, right? Yeah. And I don't know why Derek's pecs don't do that when he does a most muscular. It's like he kind of lets them hang almost, right? It bothers me. He's just he's given up that pose. And then this is going to sound like a nitpick, but I don't like Dererick's ab thigh because I feel like he's not fully flexing his abs. I feel like he's trying to draw his ab wall in a bit. Mhm. And it it it makes the lines between I always say brick out. Like I tell my guys, blow out all your air. Like blow out as much air as you can and then cough and get right down on your abs so they're fully bricked out. And I feel like Derek holds back a bit and tries to pull his ab wall in a little. And Nick just blows out on his abs. And see Nick's all bricks there, right? Go to the um go to the ab thigh ab thigh where Dererick's doing it correctly. I also hate that variation he does. Yeah. And that's that's not an ab thigh. I think you know it holds you back in that shot. I saw you had put it up earlier somewhere. I don't know where it was. Derek gives away the ab thigh because he doesn't hit it properly and then he gives away the most muscular and um that's a problem. But I thought at the end of the day there you go. Yeah. See like that's that's to me solid. You know what bothers me about the whole thing is that when and that's why I said robbery really like if if you're throw away your feelings and look at these photos all of them go up to the side chest look at them this scroll like it's right above go up a little bit. No it's on the same picture. All right. Oh yeah. Like you can't tell me that either like I would have been fine with either of them winning. Oh yeah. I mean look at this shot. Like okay. So to me, from the waist up, Dererick's got that shot cuz it has flow. From the waist down, I look at the side of Nick's legs and his glutes. He pulls them in better on that shot. I'm like, "Okay, Nick." So I'm literally arguing with myself and then it comes down to a one-point decision. And I think that that's justified. But I think what it is is everyone [\h__\h] on Nick for so long that when he came back the best he's ever been. They just wanted him to win because they wanted him to win. The thing I didn't like was that when people are screaming robbery and all this, they're indirectly tearing Derek down. And I'm like, so go to the side again. Scroll down. Scroll down. So, even though I I think well Dererick's hitting his abs pretty good there, but he also isn't masterful at holding them like that. They kind of they kind of fade in and out because he's breathing. Nyx is locked in. But look how look at the width of the lats versus the width of the waist. I think Derek has a lot more taper. Sure. And um I think that just little things like that and I don't know if you use a word polish or whatever or just shape and structure is why he won. So, I'm not saying that I had Derek winning. I'm saying I totally understand why it went that way. Yeah. And you could understand if it went the other way. That's And if it went the other way, it's just Oh, freak. Nick's Nick's a little freakier. Like, it's And and I know that people love Nick. Like, and and also too, we've completely skipped over the fact that Nick [\h__\h] after how many disappointments? Was it three disappointments? Two majors. Two majors. Yeah. He just stomps into this show looking absolutely nuts and like what? Like wow. Like now how's the Olympia look? You know the thing that we got to shuffle the I mean we didn't see Nick for like what three? It's been three years. No. And he's a factor now. You know what I'm saying? Uh Bob definitely has to pipe down now. It was so funny that you put up that clip where Dusty where you were talking about how people were like he should retire. Yeah. Exactly. Where are those people now? Yeah. The the thing that I liked about Nick that really as a fan and as a as a spectator to any physique show that I really the spot I thought he owned Derek on was that when Nick came out, he was he was given the crowd like I know that I'm nuts. Mhm. And I did feel like watching it, Derek looked nervous to me while he was saying, "I got this." I don't think he was sure. And I think that's why Nick had the look of disappointment when he lost. I mean, it's not just that he lost is that he absolutely knew he was winning in his head. In his Yeah. Yeah. And I think that that's enormous. And you know, I sent this thing to to Ron yesterday. Bumstead put up a video talking about it and the cliff notes are simple. I'm afraid of Nick now because this show absolutely put fuel on a fire that didn't need it. And when I'm coming to the Olympia, if you ask me if Nick can win the Olympia this year, the answer is yes. Yeah. Yeah. Suddenly like can. And I will not be surprised if he does. Not one bit. I'm more confident in Nick winning the Olympia this year than I was two years ago when I thought he would win. So, right. Um, you know, my vote right now seeing no one is I think that Nick will very possibly win the Olympia. in the reverse. Um, Derek won and he knows it was by a hair, right? Which also Canadian hockey player would say it's a certain type of hair. Yeah, exactly. Rhymes with bunt. Um, anyways, but he uh so that should fuel him as well. Yeah. And the craziest part is Samson's got to be watching this going, "Oh shit." Like I got to deal with two of you now. So I I hope and I think that we will see all three of them at their best and it's going to be impossible. That's going to be nuts. I feel bad for the judges when they're looking because it's going to be exactly what Ron just did. Well, when he hits the ab and thigh, I do notice that that Derek's chest is a little fuller on the ab and thigh. I mean, they're going to have to like pick it apart so far. It's not just old. It's not just like state level judging, you know what I mean? Uh, first like, you know, guy walks on stage first, like Oh, yeah. This is as far from this as it could possibly be, you know? All I know is Jim, get our seats ready cuz we're going. Yeah. If you see me disappear during prejudging, I went to lunch. It's a long lunch. It it's it's it's uh it was an awesome show. It was everything like as a business person, the guys that promote the Pittsburgh Pro, which obviously it's a manion show, you know, but they did a great job having the live stream, you know, everything went really well. The live stream was super easy. Took two seconds to buy a while. Everything went well. The expo went well. Um, and then they wind up like what more could you ask for at your show than to have that type of a finish, right? Yeah. Oh, yeah. that the year you put up the 100k and you try to like step up the show and that happens and you have a you know step up the first show. Yeah. Oh, one more little quick correction for the kids out there is last week I said, "Hey, what did the prize money used to be for the Pittsburgh Pro?" Cuz now it's 100 grand. And I had all these people messaging me. They're like, "There was no Pittsburgh Pro, you moron." Blah blah blah blah blah. And I'm like I'm like, "Oh, wait, wait, wait. There was a 1993 Pittsburgh Pro. There was a 1994 Pittsburgh Pro. There was a Pittsburgh Pro in the 90s. Milos did it every year. Did he? Like Yeah. So, like I know that you weren't born yet, but there used to be a Pittsburgh Pro and it was a tier three show. That's what I was I was referring to the old days, but you know, you'd have to think of more than just your lifetime to get that. But you have to laugh, Ron, because I I put up a post about because I have a few clients and one of our team people that's competing in the USA are competing in these shows like I'm doing nationals. I'm like no you're not. I saw that. So I put the post up and I said nationals is in November. And then I got immediate text. It's in December now. I'm like it used to be in November. Yeah. So state it's the last proqualifier in the US and it's actually the name of the show. It's the NPC Nationals. The other one's called the USA's and there's the North Americans. Yeah. And how about Nationals? South Carolina Nationals. Yeah. Yeah. So, and another thing that bothers me, and I don't mean to to trip on like almost everyone who says this, but when they say I mean, they say, "Oh, I'm doing the Van Pro." I'm like, "No, you're not. You're doing the Van Pro qualifier." Yep. You're doing the van amateur. Yeah. The van pro is on this the following day and it's the pros. Yeah. You're not a pro. You're not doing the van pro. Yeah. That'd be like if I was doing the amateur show at the Chicago Pro and I'm like, "Oh yeah, guys, getting ready for Chicago Pro." Chicago Pro. I'm doing the Olympia. You're doing like the Illinois State. I'm doing the Olympia, but mine's on Wednesday. Yeah. See, like the Arnold people get it right because they say, "I'm doing the Arnold amateur." cuz they they title the show properly and they cuz the Van Pro is actually called the Van ProAm. Yeah. So, you're doing the Van Amateur. You're not doing the Van Pro. You got to have a pro card for that. You know, that's the one Ian Valer won in Vancouver a couple years ago, right? So, that's my little thing and I just try to remind people that like walk around saying you're doing the Van Pro, you're not. I actually had a So, I had a client um uh Jennifer that I love. Um, as soon as she won her show, I told her I wanted to do the junior USA's. Yeah. And then the like the next day, she posted up like, "Nationals, here we come." So, I immediately messaged her. I'm like, "It's not a big deal to no most people, but to me it is." Yeah. Here's what it's called. So, when I put that post up, I literally messaged her before I hit post and said, "The post that's about to go up, not about you." I mean, a little bit. Yeah. a little bit about you, but not really directed at you. Final influence, maybe. Not just you. Yeah. And she goes, "Oh, okay." Yeah. Yeah. Time for an Fbomb. Okay. Hey, I got to talk about somebody else, too. What about uh this guy? Check this guy out. Boom. Terrence Ruffin is not only back. Terrence Ruffin is the best he's ever been. Oh, yeah. Yeah. He was uh he was perfect. He looked fantastic. Wasn't his a onepoint win also? Was it like theirs was a tie? I think he won by one point. Okay. I wasn't sure about how that went, but I went to him. Incredible, man. And the guy he beat, the guy that got second was really good. Oh, well, obviously. He wasn't quite he wasn't as pretty, obviously. Like, you know, in classic there's like so many genetic factors for shape and structure. So, he he's going to give that up standing next to Ruffins. Um, and the way Ruffins displays his physique to like his absolute strongest possible suit. Yeah. Um, but the other I can't remember the dude's name. Can you help me out, Scott? The guy got second. Hold. I'll pull it up in just a second after this video. Yeah. Really big upper body, especially that Terrence has in this video. Just it blows me away that just before we got to him. I just wanted to as this video finishes, I want to say, man, like I feel like he had he had been waiting and waiting. He'd been gone for a few years, you know what I mean? And I just feel like people people forget so fast. There were some pictures was down in the middle here. If you just I think it's that guy right here. Go straight to this guy. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that the second place, dude? No, hold on a minute. There was a video or side by side. Hold on a second. Give me just a second here. There was a couple of Oh, right there. There we go. Is this a good picture? Oh, maybe that is him. You're right. You were right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That dude was great. He was in gnarly condition. Really, really good classic guy. Just not quite as pretty, right? You know, you're standing next to like in classic there's just that. It's hard to be that pretty and then have to say not quite as pretty. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Look at that conditioning. They both tell me that guy couldn't just get into the open if he chose to. Yeah. I don't know what his body weight was, but he doesn't look like he's underweight for his height. Look at Look at the hams, dude. He has big thick lats. Talk about Nick's hams. Just look at these hands. Yeah, no kidding. There's not an ounce of fat on that guy's body. Fouad in the commentary, Fouad said he thought his conditioning was in person. He thought it was some of the craziest conditioning he'd ever seen in his entire life. Wow. Fouad seen a show or two for those that don't know. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look at that. Oh, by the way, I want to note for those of you that watch the live stream, Fouad and Dennis James are a great pair. They get along. They banter well. Dennis is a very easy guy to talk to. Fuad's a very easy guy to talk to, so that always goes well, right? Yeah. But they added Ian this year, and I don't know if that was the first time Ian's joined an IFBB liveream. I because I don't always get the live stream, right? Yeah. But with Ian there, it was it was another level of way better. And it's because nobody knows Fuad like Ian does. So when you get Dennis and Fuad together, it's like, "Oh, hey." Like maybe they haven't talked in a few months, right? So it's like, "Oh, hey." And they get going. But when you but throw Ian in, there's this instant flow where Ian can like hop in and and there it's it's like, you know, like if I was doing a a show with Milos and then you added Dusty, I would be better because Dusty was there. Yeah. So, it just makes the Fuad Ian dynamic and then with the It just was awesome. They were just great. Non-stop good commentary, very productive. Um, I thought it was it was entertaining to listen to. That's what we need too, out of, you know, just like commentary in general. We were talking about that after the show, I think it was last week about hockey commentary and how that's changing, you know, all this stuff. This is what bodybuilding needs. Like, you want to make the sport more accessible. It's not like, well, it's not like we say, you know what they used to do? They used to be like, well, in the evening, they're going to come out and they're going to do their individual routines. Insulting the people who paid. They they know that. doesn't know that. Yeah. No, no one who paid $30 needs you to tell me that. I I have to do this cuz it's our usual uh breakdown of shows. And I have to go backwards one more time because there's no way in hell that we can't talk about Bonak and Martin. Yeah. Yeah. B after prejudging. Well, there was third and Oh, yeah. Third and fourth. Third and fourth. And and I was like, Bono has a shot with Martin. And I I still knew Martin was going to win. I wasn't sure. He He blows my mind. He won't go away. Yeah, Bonak. Bonak won't go away, dude. He will not go away. So, I thought the only reason like Martin obviously added great size. Um, look at the sweep to his quad inside tricep. I mean, holy [\h__\h] So, when when Bonak and Martin were doing their final call out um at night, I guess Bonak was ahead in the morning and then Martin pulled ahead of him at night. I guess that's what happened. They were saying that Martin was fading in the morning, which I didn't watch the live so I don't know, but they said he was better when he came out according to Ian and faded a bit. Yeah. And obviously he tightened that up before the night. Um, but man, like number one, seeing Martin absolutely cement the fact that he is one of the guys, which we already knew, but you still need that other show. Yeah. He had that good Olympia, right? He had that Olympia where everyone's like, "Oh." But now it's like, "Oh, again, okay." Now you're expecting it this year's Olympia. Now you're beating Bonak and then you're looking at Bonak and you're going you you passed guys that we had beating you easily easily passed them like unbelievable. So I I had to bring both of those guys up for obvious reasons. Yeah. Um plus just I like both of them on a personal level. So that's awesome. I mean look at the front double on Bono in that shot. Like oh Kriso how do you look like Kriso and we have we don't even mention you. Yeah. Yeah. What was the story on Kriso, Ron? What did you see watching the live stream? So, Kriszo just has a couple of structural challenges that uh make themsel apparent right off the bat. Okay. So, you walk out and you stand in the front relaxed and right off the bat he's got a structural issue with front relaxed. Yeah. So, and you know what how that is like it's just such a problem if you got to overcome kind of he's got real wide but high lats in the front relaxed. Mhm. So, it's kind of it's just an unusual look. Um, and then his back needs to be bigger. Like, he's shredded to the bone. He's got all that gnarly muscle on him, but on the stage, his back needs to be bigger. His posing needs to improve. There's some things like that. But even having said that, he like plinkos to fifth, you know, and and that lineup in that lineup. And um he's I mean he's an like you know he's a type of bodybuilder where anyone who sees him in person is just going to be what the [\h__\h] is that? You know there's going to be fbombs you know and um but you you uh you you put him in that lineup against those seasoned guys like those guys are masters at presenting their physique. I mean you got Bonak in there just like that's what he's all about right and that's what happened when I when he was doing the last call out against Martin. I was like, "Well, Martin's got like he's got like the more classic, and I don't mean classic in like a bumstead way, but I mean a a classic in like an old school. His side chest is like round and full and it's got all this crazy flow to it." And Bonk has a little bit of a different look to him. He's not he's not structurally the best, but the muscle quality is like that polished old boot like like looks like they're more comfortable once they're broken. Yeah. just looks like you look at him and you're like, "Oh, that guy's done a million reps, that muscle." And I know that that's not actually what it is. I know people are going to say that's not scientific, but that's what the the thought is is that's like that's like one of those masters guys that he hits the most muscular. You know those masters guys that come out at like the USA and stuff and they hit the most muscular and you're like, "God, what the just crazy gnarly everything just ripping out of the bone and and Bonak has that nutso look to him and that's that's why today, you know, even more so today. It's like weird. Crazy to see him at his best ever when I felt like, man, I remember I remember him beating Luke Sando and and seeing him backstage and just him being just so incredibly crazy then. And I feel like that was not an era ago, but like a half a era of body, you know what I mean? And he's even better today, which is mind-blowing. Well, the thing is too is he's got some issues from being older that have deteriorated, but he's overcome them with other areas he's improved and then he just knows how to show it. Like like you were saying, Ron, I consider Kriso like you don't want to start a hockey game down two two goals. And that's essentially what happens when you come out and do your front relaxed next to Derek. Yeah. You're like, well, now you're down two goals and we haven't finished the quarter turns. Yeah. And you got to make your way back up in the poses, you know what I mean? So, there's that. Um, also, Scott, if we if we if they're on there. Yeah. There's no way we can't talk about Natalia. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And that was Manuel Munz. Munes. Ah, I had his name. Is that Is that how you said it? Munes, I think. Or was it? Hold on. We'll say yes and get yelled at. It was uh yeah, Manuel Munz, I guess you'd say it, but uh Jose Manuel Munes. That's what it is. All right. I wanted to get that right. Although I butchered his name, so I probably just shouldn't have said anything else. I started hearing I started hearing robots. Robots, you back. Robots putting up pictures. Yeah. Uh Natalya came out and I was like, "Well, that's over." Um, I mean, bananas as always. I think she's better than ever. Yeah, she looked great. Look at the Look at the shape on her. I mean, yeah. Just insane. She's another one that knows how to hit her shots. Yeah. Look at the lats. Look at the lats on her coming out of the waist. Detailed through the glutes. Always sliced out of her head. mind. Listen, I like her look better than uh Sarah Vargas, personally. I would pick her all day for uh Olympia. I'm sorry, but I think Sarah is a structural train wreck. Um and it takes one to no one. Um well, Sarah Sarah's like her conditioning has obviously pushed the the entire division. Go to the second place girl. She's just to the right of what you did of Natalya right there. All right. She was awesome to me. Oh yeah. But as soon as I saw her, I was like, she could from the back she could bodybuild. I mean, yeah, she was awesome. Triceps nuts. Look at Look at the back when she hits this shot. The rear double. It just glued on. Yeah. Yeah. She was awesome. When you can look that good and place second, that's very telling for how great Natalya was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Natalya's tiny waist and the crazy ridiculous Xtaper. Like I was going to say Vtaper, but then with the quads. Yeah. It's And that's that's the that's the first impression down two goals to none right off the bat when Natalya walks out from the front like that, right? Yeah. It's a lot to beat. So, and then of course Lola wins the figure. Yeah. You know, there's Natalya. So, congratulations. And then Lola, of course, I mean, you know, basically comes in like the Terminator. It's hard to even stand next to her. She's incredible. Absolutely mindboggling. For those of you who have never seen Lola Montes in person, Yeah. offseason or contest, she will put your thoughts that you're a good bodybuilder to shame. It's a figure competitor. Right. Right. Right. And and you know, you get these bodybuilders walking around and they walk by and look at her and they look at her calves. Oh, look at her dancing. They're like, "Oh, she looks like a legit superhero in this picture, doesn't she?" Like legit. Like in person, it's worse. And you know that, Scott. Like when she's standing there in like shorts Yeah. and a top, you're like I mean, I've known her for years and every time I kind of look at her, I'm like, "Okay, so your waist is my wrist, but your quads are my quads. That's weird." Yeah. They like bubble like Phil Heats. It's like Yeah. She has She has that ridiculous look to her. And I mean in in you know technically she's tiny, right? She's a tiny little human being, but the muscle bellies are just explosive. Yeah. And when you see her in person, you really get like a strange like realization of oh like cuz you think the figure girls aren't I don't know. You just don't think they're carrying the amount of muscle but then she just is carrying so much muscle on her little tiny bird frame. Look at the top of her calves there. Yeah, it's not for calves. Like it makes you go, "What the fuck?" You know, again, another fbomb for the Cavs, you know, and um it's uh she's something else. I told her when she got third at the O last year, she goes like, we're just having a conversation and she's like, "Well, what do you what did you think?" And I was like, "I don't know what to say about you getting third cuz when I see her, I just see like a fully loaded Mercedes with all the bells and whistles." Y that's a great way of putting it. Yeah. Like you know how like some people you're like, "Oh, the physique's awesome." But you know what are the bells and whistles that are that are rare, right? You get the crazy triceps, the crazy lower lats, the you know the amazing calves, the you the perfectly the glutes that easily come in and get the nice sharp crazy corner on them that some people just don't have. They get strided glutes but they don't have that. You know that long corner that Ronnie Coleman had? Yeah, she has that. She's got that corner. Terren, right? And and you know, just the you know, just the bubbliness is just there's just everything is fully loaded. Fully loaded. And I I wouldn't like I think she's going to win an Olympia. I just don't know when that's going to happen. Or I mean, Vitamin C is retired now, so that's going to help obviously just like finally, you know, open it up a bit. But we're just going to see what happens cuz I would not be surprised if Lola Montes wins an Olympia. And um and I will also say that back when I used to work at Mutant, we found her on Instagram and I said, "I got to get this girl on Mutant." And she wasn't even a pro yet. Okay. Really? I talked her into joining Mutant and the very next show, she won the Arnold amateur and got her pro card. No kidding. So like we we saw her like before and I was like when I saw her on Instagram when I first saw her, I was like uh what who is this? And that was like years ago, right? Yeah, that's a mutant. We need to bring make that. Yeah, she fits the brand that's for sure. Plus, she's a really nice person. I hadn't really talked to her a lot until the Arnold this year, and I talked to her a bunch uh and talked to her after, too. You know, um she said she has a a pretty crazy story. We should get her on here because I haven't heard it. I was like, "All right, well, I want to hear it." So, we should get her on the show to tell us that story. You know, she come She comes from a very like crazy background of like, you know, coming from absolutely nothing. Yeah. You know what I mean? So, we got to get her on then. Let's do that. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Cool. It'll be cool. So, did we cover Did we barely cover enough show to consider it show coverage? I think we can move on and forget all the other best we've ever had. It's still terrible. I think we did best coverage. We did three whole divisions. Yeah. Well, we did three partial divisions. Four divisions. I don't even remember what we did. See, I even pulled up the name for the guy who got second place in classic. How about that? And I almost got his name right. Jose Munz. Yes. I think I think you might have got there. I might have. Maybe not. Somebody will correct me. That's okay. Somebody at home is going, "That's not my name." Munes. Munes. Munes. Yes. I I think I like the the actor. That's what helps me with that. But I didn't read it. So, okay. All right. We got it. What are we off to now? What are we talking about? Well, after that, it's uh back to back, man. We don't get any rest because now the New York's coming up. Yep. And I sent you guys the thing that Nick Walker's coming for the to be the only guy to win three New York Pros. Oh yeah. Oh, three rings. No one's ever won three. Really? He's going to run out of fingers. Yeah, you're right. No one's ever won three New York Pros. Have Dusty. Yeah. Well, oh no. Sorry, wrong guy. Sorry, Justin. Um, now now here's just an off question. Did Jay Cutler win three Night of Champions? I don't think so. Huh? Because it used to be called the NOOCC, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, there we go. Did I know Flex won a couple? I know Marcus changed our life with one. And um is is Martin coming? I assume Martin's Dude, so that imagine this. There's been so much talk like we heard uh Dave Palumbo the other week say, you know, I think Martin I think Martin had of it. you know that uh he thought that Martin had actually beat Nick a couple years back at the New York Pro and people have been talking about Martin's getting better and this and that. Now we see Nick Walker. I almost feel like we're set up here for a really cool rematch if Martin is showing up to this show. You know what I mean? Both of them back at the same show. Let's do this again and see how the see how the chips fall this time. Yeah. Right. I mean, I love Martin, but I I I think the gap is too wide because Nick would have to be off, which is not going to happen for him to lose to Martin in a week. I think that like Martin obviously M, you know, making huge improvements and like but in the front double bicep, I just I just don't see how anyone at this show can stand next to Nick in the front double bicep. So, that's like right off the bat, it's like, holy [\h__\h] it's overwhelming shot. Yeah, it'd be really tough, but we'll see what happens. Man, there's there's seven other poses. Yeah. Yeah. So, and SAS is going to be there, I think. I believe so. That's uh So, that's another man, SAS just has a way of picking shows with freaks rolling in. By the way, we did try to find a competitor list and we worked our face off. I guess there's no official competitor list released yet. So, Chad GBT couldn't find it. People Yeah, Chad, couldn't you help us out? So, I know this show comes out Wednesday and you guys might be like, "It's right here. It's right here. Yeah, it's Monday. Monday wasn't out yet, right? It's a good point. It's a good point. Yeah, I'm glad you pointed that out because yeah, there's definitely people that are reading stupid reading the top of your shirt right there, Nick or Ron, and saying, "Fuck, these guys suck." Yeah. So, yeah, that's um I'm excited. I think it's going to be a great show. I think it'll do great things. And if there's ever a place for Nick Walker to always walk on stage to an eruption, it's New York. Yeah. One thing I have to say about Nick that I didn't say was he had just walking on stage just being relaxed and walking around. I I couldn't stop thinking his delts are humongous. Like there's just they his delts reminded me and his width reminds me of Jay. Mhm. Remember how Jay's delts just had that that ridiculous coat hanger width to them? Oh yeah. And they were like, you know, just he'd walk walk on stage sideways and you'd be like, "Oh, his delts are huge." And then he'd turn to the front. You're like, "Oh my god, Jay's so wide." Because Jay was always the widest guy in the lineup. And that's where Nick is now, just like standing, you know? Yeah. Yeah. When he walked out, it actually reminded me of how Phil used to walk out. Like he came out and it was like like I I always feel like the guys when they nail it, they come out almost like, "You're welcome." Right. Right. You're welcome. I'm going to let you see this. You know, it was great to see. So, I'm looking forward to that. And uh not looking past it, but man, the Olympia. Oh, it's going to be a fun one. This is going to be wild, man. Hey, we got a bunch of listener questions, guys. I want to jump right in with this one. Uh Mega Mass Equipment. What are your feelings on it, Ron? I'm not a gym owner, but listening to you guys talk about uh all the moving parts of different machine makes me a bit weary. So, I never heard of this brand and I messaged them or I commented back and I guess Ron, this is a They're out of Texas. They're out of Texas. Okay. Out of Texas. I have a lot of feedback on this one. Okay. Well, you guys take it then cuz I So, I I I don't own any Mega Mass stuff yet. Um so, I talked to Justin Shire about this yesterday. Okay. Um because um Mega Mass kind of seems to do two things. They've got old school remakes that seem to be very good. So Justin Sh's black tea bar that he's using, the chest supported tea bar. Yeah, that's a mega mass tea bar, but it's a copy of an old body masters, which we have. Oh, okay. Yeah. And and um I don't know if he's changed anything about it or, you know, made it better or anything, but Justin Shy said that he loves that tea bar and it's his favorite chest supported tea bar ever. Okay. and uh and it's a copy of an old body masters. So, they've obviously done a great job at that. And then Justin Shire also has the Mega Mass copy of the old flex row. Mhm. The flex leverage row. And I believe which we also have. I believe it has a pin to separate unilateral from bilateral, but I might be I might be wrong. I know they did that on the press. The flex doesn't have it, so I don't. Yeah. So, the old flex leverage stuff is not unilateral. That's one of the things about it. That's why if it gets bent, it's not quite great because I will say I don't know how it get bent though because that thing is so heavy, right? They do over time sometimes. Justin posted a video um doing three plates aside on that. Yeah. And I had to comment because I don't think most people know how heavy three plates aside on that is. It is heavy. I see people at the gym, they'll immediately, like a young guy puts a plate on each side, he grabs it and he's like, "Oh." Yeah. Cuz the arm's pretty long. Yeah. Well, and you can move the chest piece on it, too, so you can make it longer and as far as your reach, and then the arm itself is way out in front of you, so it's heavy. So, I know um I know Dusty has problems with one of the pieces, but the um the Nautilus leverage line that is cuz what happened? Short long story short, Star Trek bought Flex Fitness. Okay. And then for years, Star Trek made the leverage line and they just made the small square tubing that Flex had. They just made it bigger and rounder, but all the angles were the same. So if you use a Star Trek flat press, Star Trek decline press, it's the same machine, but um then Star Trek bought Nautilus. Yeah. And Star Trek decided to go back to just being cardio. So they moved the strength equipment into the Nautilus brand. So now that same leverage line is made by Nautilus and Dusty was training on it at Crunch Fitness there. I really like all those pieces. I'm a big fan of them. Dusty didn't like the row. He had to stand sideways in the row or the row the the problem with the row is your the way that it moves. It pulls it away from you. Yeah. Dusty didn't like the line. So you can't do that. But the the incline the flat Awesome pieces. Yeah, that line was like I felt like it was made by someone who had never actually done a row. Yeah. And they have a highrow. Yeah, we have that. I actually like the high row because the hammer one sets down on me, but the Nautilus high row, the old the leverage remake, I loved it. But he's doing those pieces, too. And I believe, I might be wrong. I know he did it on the chest presses, but I think there's a pin that separates uni from bilateral, which is like an upgrade, right? Mhm. Um, but anyways, long story short, he makes those and Justin says he loves all of them, but then he's also got those pieces that we've seen which have all the moving parts and the rails on them. I think that must be what he's talking about cuz he said all those moving parts. And I mean, I'll admit there like, you know, cuz at West Coast Iron, we have a footprint concern about things, right? I mean, we got so much space. We got a lot of equipment jammed in there. I'm already banging my shin sometimes. So, uh um that sub would simply be too big for our gym. And um and again, I'm not a massive moving part fan, but hey, you can make things strong as [\h__\h] and they don't break, so maybe he's doing a great job. And I don't have any reviews on that stuff yet. Okay. The only thing that I have um from a few people is great equipment, those pieces, if it's not in a gym that's seeing a ton of people. So, I've had a few people say that as soon as they had that equipment in a gym that was full, they had issues. Okay. So, it's one of those scenarios where you got to ask yourself how busy is your gym before you bring those in. Like, I don't think I don't think Clarita is ever going to say that those pieces are anything but great cuz he's the only one using them. They're not overly expensive compared to say hammer strength. We're talking grand, you know, that's why it's uh that's why it's a great possibility if your gym is not overly busy. Yeah. But if it is, and again, this is just on what I've heard from guys that own the stuff, they had some issues with it. And as a gym owner, Ron can attest that your members do not care why it is broken. Yeah. It is broken and is a problem. Yeah. And it's really hard because as a gym owner, I mean, you want stuff fixes fixed as soon as possible. And so when you have a piece that breaks down more than once for the same issue, it's it's now a problem. So I'll be curious to see with more reviews. I only talked to a couple guys that said that, but that was their points with those was that uh it became more of an issue um down the line. Can you put these two pictures up because I am going to say something about this? Put pictures up, but I can put them up in post. So, Okay. Yeah. So, we bought I have not I'm not calling these guys out. I'm just telling it like it is if we're going to talk about equipment. Uh oh. Um about four years ago, we bought six pieces of panata. I'm calling them out. And um everyone really liked it cuz it moves really well. Everyone's like, "Oh, I like the lines." You know, like I like the lines. Great lines. Um but the hip thrust broke on us like like four times to the point where I had to get a part fabricated. That's great. Um and then we finally just sold it. And I mean, for someone to put it in their home gym, they're going to be fine, right? Yeah. Um but you know, it just couldn't handle West Coast Iron. Maybe West Coast Iron is an exception, but like you know, we got guys putting six plates aside on the hip thrust and the hammer takes it, but the Pinata just couldn't handle it. I mean, the way you put it to me before, Ron, is like the leg press. It's the way I see it. It, you know, here in Detroit, we have a lot of the automotive plants and so I look at like my body master hack squat and that thing is built with the same construction that they would build like a machine that was making parts, you know, assembling things. It's going nonstop. like your leg press at West Coast, it's just one guy gets off it, the next guy loads it up, you know. So for maybe my home gym where I'm using something, you know, twice a week at the most, it's going to last forever and be perfect. But yeah, for you guys, that's a lot of wear and tear. So we sold the hip thrust and then um we got sold it, you know, and there was another piece we got rid of, too. Um cuz and a lot of the little bolts kept breaking on the decline press and the pull down. We had all these little bolts. You get these little Allen key bolts that hold things together and they would snap. Huh. And so I'm lock putting new bolts in, lock tightening them in, cranking them up, trying to just, you know, but our seated calf raise snapped in half about five weeks ago. The guy was just doing seated calf raise with three plates and the arm just snapped. Holy crap. And it wasn't at a weld. It was in the middle of the tubing. Holy crap. And it just snapped. And you could throw the photo up and post. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so we contacted the the the rep and he's like, "Hey, no problem. I'll" And he put in a claim and they're sending us a new arm. So awesome. Thank you. Yeah. Um but you know it did snap and um then the other day we went to do the pull down which everyone loves and that's the pull down that Kuba went out of his way to get cuz he loves that pull down and it's a great it's like one of my favorite pull downs of all time. But we grab the one arm and Braden goes side feels a little it's a little bit weird. And I got on it and I could kind of hear like a click click click click click click. So Braden took his headphone off and he's listening like what joint is that? cuz there's a couple of joints that move, right? Yeah. And he gets in, he goes, "Oh shit." The weld was completely snapped on the main loading arm and it was just the gusset that was holding it together cuz it was like a gusset that spans the gap. Yeah. And it's completely snapped all the way around. Wasn't even touching like open gap on the weld. So, we put in another claim and I got an email saying they're sending us an arm. But, um, now I did notice at the Fibo booth. I went and looked at the Panata stuff and the some of the the tubing looks thicker now and they've gone to more square tubing on some of the moving parts and the seated calf raise looks like it's been completely redesigned. Okay. So, you know, maybe we got kind of the first gen or whatever of the the fancy new Panata stuff that came out, which you know, again happens with cars sometimes that first gen. You don't buy that first year. First Yeah. You know, you don't buy that first year. wait for the second gen, right? I mean, we had the first gen We had the first gen Arsenal leg press and we had to get rid of it cuz I put new bearings on it three times. I was like, "Get rid of this." And you know, I don't hear the same complaints with the the newer one, right? Mhm. So, um, so yeah, it was a little frustrating, but you know, people who buy Ferraris say the same thing. Yeah. And you know, if they say that's a Ferrari of equipment, well, that's just I'm just giving you guys the information. I'm not bagging on anybody. But as a gym owner of a gym where people really load [\h__\h] up, like every single piece in our gym gets six plates aside on it, five plates aside on it, like it's got to be able to handle that type of loading. And and that's why people say to me all the time, "Are you going to get this? Look how fancy it looks." And they show me an Instagram video and I'm like, "Do you realize where you are?" Yeah. You're at West Coast Iron. Yeah. Like the reason we have an old Cybex leg press is because I don't want to have to fix it. Yeah. You know, the reason we have this is because I don't want to have to fix it all the time. So, there's a reason why we have the equipment we have. What else you got, Scott? Got a bunch of them, so we'll we'll try to run through them quickly. Uh, here's one for Dusty. Dusty's arm day routine during the end of his career. What was it when you were trying to grow your arms? Well, AI haven't stopped trying to grow my arms. I know Dusty's rule for arms. Yes. So, I mean, I've been over this a lot, but uh for me, triceps were just move heavy weight. Okay. So, you know, heavy skull crushers, heavy close grip, heavy reverse grip. That was the jam. For biceps, I had to completely remove any and all ego because I found that every other muscle was helping. So, I started living on cables for constant tension and using the weight next to the kid 100 pounds smaller than me that was 30 lbs lighter than his and just really focusing on using. Same thing with a dumbbell curl. People see me in the gym doing like a seated incline curl and I'm using like a 35, okay? And just really keeping it in because if not, my shoulders got into play. So, if your biceps are giving you an issue, chances are you're not training your bicep. You're training your ego. You're moving weight. I I really That was the one thing as I got more mature in watching. I'm like, why did I spend so many years doing the same thing that wasn't working expecting it to start to work, but it was because I looked at the rest of my physique and it was working. And it's like, cool, but it's not for that. So, keep that in mind for everybody. It's I mean, same thing if your triceps are weak and you're slanging and banging. Well, do the thing you're not doing and see what happens, you know? But you have to really marry a new option also. So when you can't go in the gym for like three weeks and and do the the cables or whatever it is you have to do and go, I'm not seeing anything. Well, you gave it three years the other way. Yeah. To me, if you you should be able to see a measurable improvement, literally measurable improvement within three months. If they're still not growing, then you got to go back to the drawing board and go, "Okay, what what other options do I have?" You know, so that's really the magic for me was was stopping ego training. All right. My triceps were their biggest when I was when I could do dips with like two plates strapped around my waist and I weighed 320. Yep. And that's when I actually thought, "Oh, my triceps are actually finally getting big." And then every other year I just thought my triceps need to be bigger. We've got uh Britt here, 32-year-old female. Um she says she'd love to step on stage at some point. uh female looking for either wellness or figure. I'm natural and I'm on a budget. Me and my fiance coach ourselves. What are some tips that you would give to a first timer? That's a long list. I mean, it sounds like she's not even she hasn't picked a show out yet. You know what I mean? She's like, "You know what? I'd really like to do this thing." First step is do that. Yeah. Yeah. Pick a show. I this is where I disagree with a lot of people. Everyone says wait until you have this physique and then get on stage. I say you want to compete, you know that. Pick a show that's 20 weeks from now and start a prep. Go through the process. Find out if you even like bodybuilding because yeah, that's part of it. Do you like the process and and commit to it. This is the date. Not I might compete in 20 weeks. I'm going to compete in 20 weeks. Yeah, lock into it. Follow the whole process. See where you end up. Do you enjoy it? Great. Then start figuring out how you need to get better. As far as which division, I feel like if you're wellness, you should know. Yeah. Like you're just you're built a certain way. Go look at the pros. Look at them. Do you look even a small version of that? If you do, great, run for it. If not, I'd probably lean you right into figure um and just run down that line and then you'll find out if you enjoy the process. And for the record, people used to get ready for shows by themselves all the time. Yeah, you do not need a coach. This is three coaches on a on a podcast. You don't need it. It definitely is going to get rid of hurdles that you're going to mistakes you're going to make, but it's not a necessity. Can I say something that's might be unpopular and might make someone mad at me. If you're on a tight budget, don't spend any money at all on hair and makeup. Zero. Do it yourself. Yep. You know how to do your hair. You know how to do makeup. Do a little more makeup cuz you're on under bright lights. Zero. So, when you do your budget for the show, hair and makeup, zero. Mhm. Zero. And then suit. Get a used suit. Yeah. You can usually rent suits from other girls $50. Yeah. I see girls all the time spend $300 on hair and makeup and they're up at 4 in the morning to get it done because they've got an appointment and then their suit costs them $500 or something and they get like sixth place at their first show. It's like what was all that for? Yeah. Like I'm I I mean I see the place for hair and makeup, don't get me wrong. We're we're all excited for the Olympia coming up, but for these people on really tight budgets, like man, goes back to my old advice for guys, Costco membership, bottle of test, like um yeah, you you ladies, a lot of you ladies are great at do your hair and makeup like you're like you're trying to you're going to do do some runway modeling or something. You know what you're doing. You've been doing makeup your whole life. Well, plus they have uh I mean, it's funny cuz Nick loves that stuff. Go on Tik Tok. Go watch some makeup tutorials. Yeah. Like learn how to do it. They can tell you what to get. And there's even those girls, the makeup girls that are sponsored and have all this [\h__\h] They'll tell you this is the brand I'm using. This is the brand at Walgreens. You can also use cost $2. Yeah, you can use that one as well. It's not magic. I agree 100%. But make it fun, you know? But I really I I want people to get off the fence. The moment you want to compete, you should go through the process because I've told the story before, but when I committed to doing my first show, the entire time I'm like, "This is the dumbest thing I've ever done. I will," which is a lie, but anyways, um I will never do this again, but I won't quit. And I saw it all the way to the end. And then I realized the part that I thought that was dumb was my favorite part. And then I did it for the rest of my life. So, but I mean you you can't know if you like it until you grind all the way through. And then I realized the reason I didn't care is I don't care about the stage. But I loved the part that the part that I hated was the challenge. It was the rewarding part when it was over. I was like, "Oh, I missed that. When can I do it again?" Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, or on the other side, you got people that do a prep and they're like, "This is not worth it." I'm like, "Cool, stop." Yeah. Yeah. You can be a non-competitor. It's still cool. You know, you still bodybuilder. You're still a bodybuilder. I used to always hate that. Should you use steroids if you're not competing? What? Yeah. Do you want to be bigger? Go ahead. So, I see where you're coming from, Dusty. And I feel like growing up I was told to pick a show and that was your show and you did it. And honestly, I feel like now I tell people the opposite of that that I'll tell people to to do the get in shape first and then pick a show because I do think it's and I I but I see where you're coming from. You're coming from the perspective of you're committed. You're going to do this. That's going to force you to then do the thing that you want to do. Well, you can always push it back if you're behind. Yeah. So, I'm You look and you go, "Okay." But if you don't ever pick a a show, Yeah. then you don't ever start. So, I like that. I I like it from that perspective. The part I don't like of picking the show is if you do, like I'll tell people even. I'm like, "Hey, this is the show we're doing, but don't pay for it yet. We don't need to pay for it at 30 weeks out." You know what I mean? What's what's the where's the point where you'll have a late fine if you pay it any later? Let's know when that point is and let's make sure that you pay before that. But if we end up doing it. Yeah. Yeah. That way too because you never know what's going to happen. You could I mean, god forbid get in a car wreck and break your ankle and now you can't do cardio. I had that happen to a guy where like we were really dependent on his cardio at the time and we're like five weeks out. He gets rearended and he somehow broke his ankle when he got rear ended and now it's like big rear ended. Oh yeah. Yeah. So that was the only Was he sitting backwards? Foot was out the window. Supposed to drive with your your feet, not your hands. Yeah. No, I totally agree with that though. I mean, I actually always entered the show at the very end, even though I knew I was going to make it. I was so the opposite. I was like the first day that registration opened, paid there, first one in. Yeah, I always waited till the end, but it was for that reason of what if. I mean, at the time, I was also not smart enough to stop deadlifting 700 lb two weeks out. So, like, [\h__\h] happens. But yeah, I can also say that I fortunately never picked a show that I didn't do. Yeah, I never pulled out of a show. I did 24 shows, never pulled out of a show. But no, I I think it's awesome. I I actually really think that there's actually, funny enough, Aaron that uh used to be with us, I can't remember his name, um out of Vegas, the one that lived in Japan before. Oh, Aaron the bodybuilder. Yeah. So, he's doing his own preps and he had a lot of people go, "Why don't you just hire a coach and be done with it?" And he's like, "Because I want to learn and I'm okay with the fact that I'm going to make mistakes and be off." And I loved listening to his breakdown because I'm like, "Yes, that's okay." Also, it's not okay for me. I immediately hired everybody. But if that's what you're into, that's why we all do this is for whatever we love about it. And he loves learning the process and figuring it out. Yeah. Do your thing. How about this one? Um, so it's not just me that basically fantasizes about different foods and restaurants and talks about how good they are. Um, but only have them on a rare occasion. Uh, do you guys ever regret not enjoying foods that you love more? No, not at all. Nope. I'm not I There's only like I'm I'm not a giant foodie. There's like 10 things I love and they're all white sauces. Yeah. I was going to say none of it had male. None of them had male. Yeah. No, no. I think here's my take. If you enjoy food, which I we go everywhere, Ron knows that. Like, yeah, Dusty's way more foodie than we are going places. But I find even now, I do one cheat meal a week and it makes sure that when I get it, I really enjoy it. And the times in my life when I was retired that I was just kind of like doing whatever I wanted and eating whatever I wanted, it was never that exciting because I I had something like it yesterday. Like I love just I eat my little four meals a day every day and then Saturday we go to dinner and then we can go all out. Plus I'm cheap. You which saves me a ton of money. And Mickey's boobs go for dinner. Yeah, they Well, they're part of her so they always come which they're for my it's a backdrop to my food pictures. I know. I noticed. I know this you're or or it's the or the food is the front drop to the boot. The four drop. Yeah. Right. One of the two. I'm here for hits. I'm here for hits. I know there's some hits involved, some sharers and stuff involved. Dusty, I know. I play the long game. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But no. So I I don't at all. And uh it will make you choosy too. Like I know what I'm eating in two weeks on Saturday cuz it's already scheduled. See, Emily Emily is probably the pickiest eater I've of anyone I know. She's horrendous. Horrendous. She eats egg whites in Vegas on a Saturday night after the Olympia. Yeah. She eats like she eats um eggs and like veggies and a little bit of beef. Okay. And that's it. Like she doesn't she doesn't want anything else. She doesn't eat cheese. She doesn't eat any dairy whatsoever. She just she does not care about anything. Like that sounds like Victoria. She does. And she also has food allergies. I was going to say she dies. She's like I don't She doesn't want to deal with a digestion issue. So she's like, "Yeah, just she'll eat meat." All she cares about and a vegetable. Do they have a green salad and a salmon fillet? Yeah. Okay, I can eat there. Yeah, that's it. It's all she cares about. So I don't we don't ever go to like rich like restaurants with like all crazy food and stuff because she doesn't give a [\h__\h] then she doesn't want it either. Like she doesn't care. She has no taste buds for it. She grew up in a family where her mom would make like brown rice and salmon and then give carrot sticks for like treats. Oh wow. Poor kid. And like she never had breakfast cereal. Her there was never breakfast cereal in her house. Her her mom was like, "No, that's crap." Her mom was like, "We don't eat sugar." Can I go on a quick tie? And then she met Ron, a 300 pound bodybuilder eating McDonald's. Emily's treat Emily's treat is she keeps some 88% dark chocolate. Yeah. Yeah. In a container and she'll break off a square once a night and be like, "No, eat the whole bar within 5 minutes." That's milk chocolate and you eat like a 150 g bar. All of it. Yeah. Immediately. That's Ron. you just you hit a soft note for me cuz I'm sure you guys have seen but in the states um RFK is jamming on all these you know dyes and all this stuff and I have a bunch of friends who are like yeah that stuff's in my kids cereal. I'm like well if you hate it so bad don't buy it. Yeah. If you think it's so bad for them don't buy it. Like I'm not angry that cocaine is rampant in Scottsdale. I just don't use cocaine. Yeah. Yeah. And it just it drives me bad. I'm like, you obviously don't care that much or you wouldn't buy that [\h__\h] for your kids. Yeah. Like I didn't know that stuff cuz my mom always made eggs and toast for breakfast every day and that's what I ate and that's what I still [\h__\h] ate. I have a friend who has two kids. The one kid is like I don't know. I can't tell how kids are, how old they are. One's like nine, I don't know. The other one's like five. And he's like, "Oh, my kids have never ever had a single bite of fried food." Wow. They have no idea what it tastes like. They've They have no idea what McDonald's tastes like. They've never eaten a French fry. They have never had a chicken finger. They have no idea. I had cousins in a cult. Completely alien to them. And they eat really healthy. And they eat really healthy, too. They like They weren't even allowed to watch TV shows. So, I remember like as a kid, I'd talk about like, "Oh, you know, like we had our G.I. you know, and they're like the the theme song to GI Joe and they're like, "Huh?" They're like, "They never knew there was a TV show, but they never ate chocolate. They never they never ate any like they grew up to be normal people, but they lived in started not Yeah. Yeah. They lived in they moved to Montana and there was this uh it was on MTV this cult and this lady the prophet something or another. They had these huge underground bunkers that were like the size of a football field where like they thought that the end of the world was going to come and that they were going to go there for years and you know like repopulate the earth and it was weird just die with the rest of them. Yeah. For the reason for for whatever reason like Yeah. They were like they didn't they didn't listen to music. They didn't watch TV. Is there like a bunch of creepy sex involved? Cuz if there's no creepy sex, it's not an interesting cult to me, right? If I'm culting, if I'm going to cult, there going to be like really crazy sex. A lot of orgies. And there's got to be stockpile of weapons for me, too. Lots of weapons. I have those shooting and banging. Banging. Shooting. Shooting. Yeah. Yeah. I had a friend who was like quite His parents were like super Christian. Yeah. Mhm. And I didn't really understand growing up. Like I just But I remember like I' we'd be over at his house after school one day and I'd be like, "Oh, Thre's Company's on." He'd be like, "Oh, we can't watch Thre's Company." Oh god, no. And I'm like, "Why not? It's like on at 5:00." Yeah. We're all here. The TV's right there. Oh no. My parents won't let me watch Thre's Company. If they hear the Thre's Company theme song, they'll come and knock on our door. Like if they hear that theme song, they'll come running. And I was like, "Oh." And then like looking back now I I got it like later I was like oh there was so much sexual innuendo with thre's company right cuz like Jack was pretending to be gay so that he could live with the two roommates and the whole thing right and his his Christian parents were like no company but I watched him as a kid too I didn't get any of that either. You know what I mean? Cuz I got it. I just didn't give a [\h__\h] I was like I was pretending to be gay. I guess it was when I was real young. You know what I mean? Like I didn't get it. I was like I'm a little older than you, Scott. Not much but just there. Yeah. Great show, by the way. Yeah. Yeah. I got one more for you guys. And to preface this, Ron, does Emily ever watch the show? No. No. Okay. Perfect. Here we go. Okay. No. No. Good. Emily has probably seen one minute of this show. Okay. Okay. When she heard I was on, she wasn't interested. Well, that might not work as well because Victoria will watch the show. I know Nikki will watch the show. And here was the question. Hey lads, great show as always. It would be uh what's the chances of having your better halves on the show to cover cover some of their bodybuilding experiences and knowledge now. Well, she could be on the show. Well, hold on because I have more to this. Victoria had had this idea a while back and she was like, "What if we just had like the wives and like I sat where you sit and Emily sat where Ron sit and Nikki sat where Dusty sits and they just we just did the show, you know? It'd be better and we'd never be able to come back. That's true. There is that there is that I've seen the three of them eat dinner together. People will be way more interested in them. Um our female following would grow, you know, with Emily would say Emily would say stuff. I'd be off camera going, "Don't say that. Don't say that. No, that's not how it happened. That's not what happened. No." I'd be like I'd be like ah losing it. I'd listen to the replay. I'd be like, "Oh, we can't put this out." Yeah. You'd be right on the other end of the spectrum. Once I met Emily at the at the rate that that no one following the show will ever know her, I knew she was my people. Yeah. She'll say some stuff and be like, "Oh, she goes she goes she goes far enough off the RTOR Scott that she actually caught me off guard once. I was like, and it was like in a public environment and I was like, I love this girl." She's the type of person who tells her mom everything. Okay. And her mom's like traumatized. You know what I mean? I'm like, "God, you told your mom that?" She's like, "Well, yeah." I'm like, "Why would you tell your mom that?" She's like, "I don't know. She's my mom." I'm like, "Well, you don't tell her that." Oh, God. Now I got to go sit at the table with her. Look her in the eye. Yeah. Jesus. Oh, she's only seeing one thing with Ron. It's that last story. Oh, God. You know, it's like I tell my mom. Mom told my mom nothing like nothing. It's amazing. It's not good. It's not good. Okay. Okay. So, I had one. Are we doing one more question? Yeah, we're going to do your last one. So, I just had an interesting idea and it's just cuz I was having a conversation with someone the other day and I said something that I thought and they were like, "Oh, that's that'd be very unpopular opinion." And I was like, "Oh, yeah. I guess it would be." Is there anything that is there an opinion you guys hold about something? Let's say no nonpol non-political just to like clear that so it's fun. Yeah. Non-political opinion that you guys hold that you think will be very unpopular with some viewers. Mustard should be illegal. Oo. It's disgusting. Okay. Not as decisive as I was aiming for, Dusty. But sorry, it's all I got. Um, I've got one. I've got one. Everybody should go back to all this like working from home, remote stuff needs to end. Everybody needs to go back to work. That's that's my thought. You want to know why? Because I I liked before the pandemic because there was nobody on the roads when I went out. I go to the grocery store in the middle of the day, there's nobody there. I go to the bank, there's nobody there. Now everybody's everywhere. So, everybody's got to go back to work. I'm amazed. I go to the gym. I used to go to the gym at two in the afternoon. Drop by. Yeah. And there'd be like 10 people training and they're all like old, right? Yeah. We're all are like shift workers or something like that. Guys that work in the bar. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Couple bouncers in there training. Couple, you know, cops off off shift. Yeah. Now I go to the gym at two and I'm like, don't any of you people have jobs? There's like 50 people in here. Yeah. I mean, I love seeing the gym busy, but like they're working remotely. Anybody work? And then I realized, oh, no one actually goes to work anymore. Yeah. No. Yeah. That's funny. That's a very valid one, Scott. I like that. Yeah. Because I really I enjoyed that. I had a solid like sixyear run of full-time coaching, cruising wherever I wanted to go. Parking right out front of every store. They go drop dry cleaning off. You pull up right in front of the store. You just walk in. It's fine. Nobody in the road. No traffic. No. You can see your car from the window as you're talking to the guy. Yeah. Yeah. Then by like 4:00 I'd make sure I was home because then everybody all those other suckers got out of work. It's time for the peasants. Exactly. Peasants have to do their stuff. Yeah. That's fantastic. There's like a little bit of a feeling of superiority cuz you work from home and they have to go to the office. So you're like, I need some separation here. Yeah, I get it. Well, Ron, what was yours? Well, mine was and this is rooted in experience with and mine's not as funny. Mine's less funny, but this is rooted in experience with people that I've known and uh uh unfortunate situations that have occurred. Um I think that it is absolutely ludicrous that we allow street bikes that do 300 km an hour on the highway. And I think that they should be completely illegal. And the top. And the top speed on them, the top speed on them should be like 140 km an hour max. What's that in miles hour? What is like an actual speed? Like 90 mph. Oh, that's a crime. I think if you want to ride one of those bikes, take it to the track because I just passed, and I will cement this in. I just passed another dead guy on the road the other day on a crotch rocket. Ambulance, fire trucks, cops lining the highway, body bag, smashed up, bike ripped in half, truck with a big dent in the side of it. I don't know whose fault it was, but I have known so many people that have died on those rockets. Yeah. And and the guys, friends of mine that ride Harley's, I don't know. It's just cuz they cruise. They don't. And the number of times I'm driving here in Vancouver on the highway on the freeway and the rockets fly past me like I'm standing still like three in a row. I'm like, "You guys are going to die." Like you're going to die or you're going to kill somebody and it infuriates me. And I know there's guys listening to this show that are bubbling right now like, "I have a Suzuki 1100 and I do 300 if I want." I know. I'm with them. I'm a you know, I'm AI feel you should. I don't I also I'm a freedom guy. I don't think we should have to wear seat belts either. But the the motorcycle thing you also do put other people at risk if you're driving erratically in traffic. There is that what happens is people see them coming and they think they're doing the speed limit. So they pull out and they're doing 200 km an hour and they t-bone them. Now we got a dead guy on a bike. Maybe a dead person in a car. literally in front of my high school on the way like the buses were stopping at the high school and he bam and that was it and it was so one of those situations at least have some kind of mitigation. So in Australia, I don't know the exact numbers, so the Australian guys can correct me, but my point is the general point. When you first buy a motorcycle, you have to buy like a really low cc bike and you have to put a certain number of kilometers on it. Okay? Before you can or you have to ride it for a certain amount of time. I can't remember. I think it's a kilometers a number of kilometers. Um for that training and you have to like and it's like low CC. I think it's like a 250, right? And you have to do your time on that bike. I had a friend who bought a 900. It was his first bike. Week later, he was dead. And I know another guy that Careful with the Let's Careful with the D word and the Yeah. Okay. But I bought I knew another guy another guy that bought uh a street bike and a week later he was paralyzed. Oh, and I've seen it happen too many times and I've passed too many body bags out here in Vancouver because these guys are idiots on the freeway, man. Like complete reckless. And they're driving in like packs of five doing triple the speed limit, man. Like we're standing still when they fly past us. They're doing video and they're putting it on social media and they're getting a lot of followers, you know? Yeah. And they're getting hits and it's just like, man. And I I know, hey, I got no skin in the game. I don't ride a bike and I would never buy one of those bikes, but I just I just go like the speed limits 100 km an hour on the freeway. So why does the bike do 300 km an hour? That seems a little funny to me. Like I think that I think the thing is and I could say this from experience and I've been rid my first car was a motorcycle. So and I've had bikes since I was four years old. There's a couple things. When you get on a Harley like mine, you are in a different mindset. And I used to own crotch rockets and you are in a different mindset. It's the same. I mean, when when I've had fast cars, I drove them the way they were made to be driven. Yeah. Yeah. And that does play a role. The other thing I will say though with the accidents and stuff, Ron, is and this is why we never like I've built Nikki's bike and she doesn't ride it because after our friend passed away, he passed away because he was inexperienced and he made a mistake. A mistake I would never make and I realized I cannot teach her my 30 years of experience on a motorcycle. Yeah. In any time frame that I'm willing to let her learn. And so I said, "Yeah, we're not doing this anymore." Right. Because it just didn't it didn't make sense to me. Like, yeah, when you're on a motorcycle, you are you do have to be aware of every car. Like when I'm in my truck, I'm just driving. When I'm on a motorcycle, I know what color every car is and what dumb move they might make and where I'm going to go if they do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's that's my like mindset the whole time. And I know how to do those things and I could still end up dead. the odds for them are higher. And I mean they when they passed her on her test, I mean hell, my friend that passed away, like he passed the the test that he knew how to ride and got a license and then I taught him how to ride a motorcycle afterwards cuz he still didn't know anything. Yeah. And then by the time we're on the street, I you just you just can't you cannot create all the things that I've learned over the years quickly. And so I was like, "Yeah, we won't survive if you're not here. So we're going to go ahead and keep you in a big lifted truck." Another another thing about out here, and obviously every city's different, there are a ridiculous number of people in Vancouver that are horrible drivers. Yeah. And have no idea what's going on around them. So there's an extra complete veil of unawareness. Yeah. over everyone on the freeway and it makes it even worse for the people on the bikes. Oh, I agree. That's why I stopped having motorcycles when I live in Scots. No, I love those things, man. And then when I moved here, because it was slower, I was like, okay, I can manage the traffic here better where there I was like, it's not if, it's when. So, I sold my bikes and didn't have them for years and I moved out here and I was like, I can do it again here. So, I bought some more. No, I know. I see some guys I follow go to the track and like have a good time and I'm like, "Oh man, that'd be so much. I'd love that." Like fun. Like I totally get it, but I just think, man, I just I've seen a lot and there's been a lot of people I know that aren't around anymore and I just think [\h__\h] You know, you know what's crazy here is and I I've kind of it's normalized to me, but Victoria pointed it out. I don't know if you guys have laws there, but here in Michigan there's no helmet law. So there are people that are flying around. They don't even have a helmet on. Oh yeah. helmet. Well, Canada where everything's regulated. What about you, Dusty? Do you guys have helmet law? No, we don't. Okay. We don't here. But it's one of those things, too, where when I was younger, my mindset was if I go down, I don't want to get back up. Yeah. And now that I'm older and I have other things I live for beyond me, I'm like, okay, I would like to get back up if I go down. So, we're good there. But, um, no, it's interesting. There's there's a lot of takes on a lot of things like that, Ron, that I think are interesting. Like I told Scott the other day, I think that every person should know how to handle a firearm. Like when I left town last week, I was like, "Uh, hey girls, there's yours. You know how to use it. If someone comes in, you can do it from the balcony uh and go back to bed. Go back to bed because you know what to do." And it it's funny, but I mean as a parent when you leave your house and you know that that's something they can do. Yeah. I slept easy. I'm like, "Yeah, you know, there's multiple reasons not to come in this house between the dogs and that and uh you're good to go." Yeah. I absolutely love your laws about defending your property and yourself, Dusty. It's just one of the things as a Canadian I'm the most envious of, you know, and now that we got our new government, I they might be they might be taking everything away and like literally coming to your house and taking it. That's terrifying. You know what I mean? Like it's it's I'm living in a strange world. I want to throw this out there and it is political. So, I'll preface it that, you know, when people say like, "Oh, well, what do you need all that for? What do you need to know how to do this for? And what do you need to know how to do tactical stuff for?" The stuff that you won't be able to stop. Well, you know what? It's because yeah, that's there's that there's that. And you know what? I think that here in the US, we'll probably never in my lifetime need to know the stuff that I've been learning. But the important thing is is that I do and that we can continue doing it because it might be not me, but the next generation or the generation after that. Eventually, the way that societies go, they are going to want to clamp down, you know, and the only reason they can't do it here is because we can fight back. Yep. We need to keep that. Might be might be 200 years from now that we need it, but we need to keep it. I was telling Ron Scott, I was at the uh I was talking to Ron somebody and they were asking like how common is it where you live in the South and I was I was in the cigar lounge. I said, "Well, there's 30 people in here and I would guesstimate that 25 are armed." Yeah. And they're like, "Really?" I said, "And [\h__\h] doesn't happen here." Yeah. Yeah. There was AI got to send you to you, Dusty. There was a a post uh from Colin Noir. He posted that there was a a a robbery of a gas station and everybody in the store, like all four people in the store shot the guy. Handled. Yeah. Yeah. Moving on. People are going to do a lot. You're going to think twice going into a place if you knew everybody could take you out. You know, they're going to fight back. Yeah, it's classic. I love that one video of that diner that's getting robbed and the guy's going down with the bag and he's taking everybody's [\h__\h] and then he kind of start he kind of does this waves it around a bit and the old man just pops him. Yep. That's good. From seated position, just pop pop and while he's kind of, you know, when he's moving, waving his gun around, talking, yelling, everyone get me and he just pop pop drops him and everyone just sits just stays seated like I love. Then you then you finish your dinner. Yeah. You finish your dinner. It's been handled. I know. I just have absolutely no problem with that. No. And and I live in a country where like there's a crazy story just a few days ago. This guy got arrested for stealing a car with trying to steal a car with someone in it. It's like attempted carjacking. Yeah. But arrested. Released late later that day on bail. Yeah. Later that day gets gets arrested for assaulting a woman. gets out on bail that same day again. Third time. No, the second time. The second time. Then the next day he gets arrested again and released on bail again. You're like, "Come on, guys." Yeah. And it's our justice system. Like the judges have their hands tied because there's just so much nonsense written into our criminal code about like well you know these these people have mental health issues and this is this is you know drugs and mental health issues and yeah just I don't know what's going on in Canada man but these people are not spending a they're not spending a single night in jail. Yeah. And they're just getting re-released to reaffend. They said there's a handful of people in Vancouver that were responsible for 6,000 arrests last year and they can't keep that handful of people just locked in a cage for the rest of time. I don't understand. Like you want to talk about for the benefit of society? Yeah. So we can remove 6,000 issues. It's like 11 people. They were responsible for like 6,000 stupid arrests, you know, shoplifting and vandalizing and [\h__\h] this and that and blah blah blah blah on and on and on, non-stop. How's the manpower and the cops and the paperwork? Like, so we have problems up here. Real problems. But we elected the same government. Doing it again. Blows me away. Blows me away. Nothing will change. And then people will be like, "Man, things are getting real bad here." Well, you voted for it. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay. We got Yeah. So, yeah. My thing. I love your speed. I love your bikes. I love that they're cool. I love that they go fast. But use your head. Okay. Agreed. Use your head. Don't do 250 km an hour on the freeway for a video. And I like that you all got to work from home for a while. But listen, we got to wrap that up. But get back get back to work so Scott and I can roam around freely. I love those people that have like three full-time jobs. Yeah. Mhm. and none of the employers know about them and they got three screens going and they're just like marketing writing copy for one company and doing data analysis for another and data entry for another and they're pulling in three full-time salaries. I just think that's wizard. I didn't even know that was a thing. That's that's amazing. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Well, three totally separate companies have nothing to do with each other and they're just like what do you make 180,000? How do you do that? 60,000 at a time. Yeah. Yeah. 360k jobs. They got AI doing all their data entry for one of them. Just crazy. It's amazing. Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. That one might be good for comments that whole episode. I think it definitely did. Okay. Okay. Remember, I immutin. And everyone should get on the gear. Okay. Don't drive stupid and uh learn how to use a firearm to defend your home. Yes. Yes. There we go. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. You guys are awesome. I appreciate you. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you very much. And give us uh hit Why don't you hit us with some questions? Hit this this episode in particular. Plaster your questions on it. And then Scott will go through it next week. Yes. Absolutely. Okay. Thanks everybody. And remember this shirt might be available soon. Dusty's Dusty's responsible for this one of course. Yes. Okay. It's just bodybuilding.