Now watch these guys pull these plates. They got to do it like real good timing. Oh god. Yeah. No kidding. Right down to five, you know. So like I don't know. I don't think anybody else is doing this. Not that you have to do this specifically, but it's just this is like super old school like strip sets on the barbell squat. Yeah. Oh yeah. You know what I mean? Like still going three plates now. No. Technically, can you find another like as far as load versus risk? This is like as risky as it gets. Yeah. Right. Like it's barbell squat, seven plates. Yeah. That's as risky as it gets, right? It's like top of the food chain, you know, high risk exercises. So, I don't know. Heidi's a crazy psycho in the gym, man. You got to hand it to him. Hey everybody, it's just bodybuilding. Welcome to the show. Dusty, I like how I threw threw you off there. You threw the welcome a different little little poetic license. Of course, I'm Big Ron Partllo. Got Dusty Handshot, the producer Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. I had to be careful with my bell because my mic is closing. You've adjusted your microphone. that I too am dealing with a slightly different microphone placement today. We're going to see how Scott likes it. We only spent 25 minutes to get them to move their mics this far. That's all it took, guys. That's all it took. You can see why the big movies take so long to make. Yeah, it's like sad. Ron's a little loud. Dusty's a little quiet. Let me use my tech skills. Let's do this. Ron, move your mic in your mic. All these expensive buttons at my fingertips. I'm just going to get them to move their mics physically move your mic. AI can't replace you with moves like that. No, no, no, no. Do not teach the AI what you want us to do. It has to be physically done. All up here. Yes. Okay. Um, remember.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your allin. And of course, everyone should be on the gear. Uh, immutant.com. Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. Thank you to Mutant again for sponsoring the show. We really appreciate it. Yes. Um, I love it. People are watching. Oh, Patreon exclusive. Damn. Yes, these guys are happy. Good to see everybody. Yes, the B channel. Why on the B channel? Why am I not see? That's our live our live for fun channel. So, it's good to have you guys on here. Only certain people know about the B channel. It's like underground. Like when a band does an exclusive recording, pop-up show. Like you just show up somewhere. Yes. Exactly. You just show up somewhere and play three three songs and leave. Yeah. Bang it out hard and that's it. Go. Yeah, there it is. I was hitting the wrong button. I was like, why can't I see the B channel? Okay, we're good. We're good. We're good. We're good. Happy to be here. Um, Dusty put up a question box. I thought I had a lot of good stuff. That was solid. Dusty gets good questions on those boxes. They work out good for him. And we had an opening topic since we're kind of what over halfway to the Olympia. Yeah. We were going to talk about the Olympias a little bit. Yeah. What are we 15 weeks out? Weeks out. Damn. 2 days. Not that I'm counting. Like I'm telling you, you know what I'm going to say? Like in 15 weeks, I'm going to say I can't believe time went by this fast. I felt like we were just doing our 15w week out predictions. Yeah. I hope that my prediction is as bad as Wayne Gretzky's was on the finals of the uh NHL playoffs. Did he Did he mess it up? Bring Oh, yeah. Cuz well, they they all so they all wrote down who they thought would win the finals and in how many games. Yeah. And then after the finals was done that night, they opened their envelopes and said, "Who?" And uh Wayne had Edmonton winning in four games. Okay. And he's like, "I'm embarrassed to read this." So that will be me in 15 weeks. Yes. But uh but I like to uh go all in. So what can I say? I got to say, too, uh everybody at home, I know you guys get really passionate about this stuff. So you tell us. Who do you think? Well, yeah. Tell us why we suck, why we're wrong, but also tell us who your picks are because I think that that's kind of part of the fun of this is that none of us really can know and there's so many freaking great bodybuilders this season. So, uh it'll be good to hear what every we all have to say and I want to hear what all you have to say, too. All right, so we're going to do are we doing like our top five in our minds? What are we going with here? That's tough even. You know, top 10 is hard. We'll do top five and then I'll have seven or eight. Okay. Like always. So, perfect. Perfect. So, accurately rated. Let's let's start at number one. Yes. This time, Ron, who's winning the Olympia? I don't know how good I've been at picking winners lately. I can't remember the last few Olympias. Just ignore the dog. Keep talking. It's fine. Oh, yeah. Your dogs aren't as cleaning your windows today. They're not cleaning windows. They're fixing something on the outside of the building. Driving me crazy. Oh, okay. Dusty, go first. All right, fine. I'll go first. I am going with Samson. And the reason I'm going that route is because when I see him just standing, living life, I'm like, that's Mr. Olympia. I mean, he has 24 inch arms, yet his body all fits. Yeah. Like, when you look at Samson, he's so welldeveloped that even with 24in arms, you don't go, he has huge arms. Nobody has that structure. No, they just so well put together. Um, so that is my bet out the gate. Um, obviously it comes down to a lot of things we all know, who comes in this and that course. But I think if everyone comes in at their best. Yeah. I just think that, you know, to go back to Chris's great metaphor, eventually, no matter how nice a fivetory build, fivetory building is, the 10-story one just seems to shine a little brighter. Yeah. So, I'm waiting for Ron to put his ears in. Ron, I threw down Samson as my winner, just so you know. Yeah. Um I sort of think Samson's going to win again, too. I know that he got beat by Derek when Derek was absolutely like perfect. Yeah. Conditionwise. Um, you know, it's funny when we see things once and then like the the next time the guy's like 98% of that we're like eyes off. Right. Right. Like I'd hope to ever be that off, but we're just so ruthless, right, as as as fans/judges? Um, so, you know, I mean, is Derek going to look like that again? And even if Dererick looks like that again, is Samson all of a sudden way better? Does Samson look like that? Like, does Samson show up in the condition that Derek can't beat? Right. Um, Samson looks like he's gotten bigger. He looks absolutely humongous with that crazy shape and structure. Um, Hottie, is Hottie still a question mark with legality and all that stuff? I don't know. The latest fans, according to fan reactions, it's not a problem. Yeah, that's what I heard, too. Okay. So, there's that. Well, I mean, and then, you know, like Nick, obviously, everyone throwing Nick's name in, you know, how good he did at the, you know, the last I thought he was supposed to retire. He was so bad, right? Right. Oh, wait. I guess we're all eating those ones. Yeah. But I think when it comes down to winning the Olympia, you're looking at Samson, uh, you know, Hottie and Derek. I think we're still in that era. Yep. That's still the era we're in. We're still in the Phil Kai era, right? Like that's the chunk of time we're in right now. And I think Samson's going to come up with his second Olympia. Scott, I think that's possible. In fact, that's who I I think that if he nails it again, he will win. I I think that with that size and his structure, there's nobody comparable to him that has that tall X-frame structure. And I think that if he nails it and already being Mr. Olympia, I you know, the whole got to knock the champ out thing. I I don't feel like that is quite as strong as it was before. But we do know him as Mr. Olympia. I feel like he's been a good Mr. Olympia this year. You know, I feel like he honors the sport well. I feel like, you know, he's he's definitely portrayed the sport in a great light. U the stuff that I've seen him do, I I I just think he's doing a really great job. Now, here's my question mark and I kind of feel like this is and this is just being completely honest, transparent as a coach and as a fan of the sport and as somebody who's been experienced peing a lot of people. I believe that his wife probably knows him better than anybody else. I I also feel like there's this level of like because because she did it once, they got the Olympia once that now we're supposed to credit her with being able to repeat that multiple times, time after time after time with a lot of pressure and the biggest show there ever is. That's a lot for somebody who isn't doing this all the time. Do we need a coach to be able to even compete at any show? Absolutely not. We don't. But I will say this, I feel like I will say that conditioning wise and nailing it, I would say anybody working with Aceto has a a better a better chance statistically of working with somebody who's literally a veteran that this is what they've done day in day out, show after show, you know, since the Jay Cutler days and before. I think that I trust him. I trust Aceto and what he's going to bring versus Samson's wife. She still isn't tried and true as far as being able to nail it with him, right? I I can it be done? Absolutely. I think it can, but I think there's a bigger question mark with her picking him than say Aceto peing him. So, I will throw that out there. Do you think when Samson won in your eyes was he flawless? I would like to see him still a little harder honestly. Yeah, the condition could have been better. The reason that I asked that is because he peeled to the bone, but a lot of our Mr. Olympias haven't been lately, you know. I mean, but as a as a, you know, a retort to what you said, Yeah. one thing that I think fans forget is every Mr. Olympia or bodybuilder in general who's ever nailed it chases nailing it for years afterwards. And I think that we forget that it's like doesn't matter who your coach is. I mean Jay worked with Aceto for the longest time. And I mean I remember when when he came to my store in 02 03 we were looking at pictures from the 01 Olympia and he said these are the pictures that haunt me. Yeah dude. Because he he couldn't match it. And you know, talking to him long after he retired, he even though everyone loves 09, he still thinks 01 is the best he ever looked. Yeah. Across the board in his opinion. And that just that should show guys that how difficult that is. And because Samson has not, in our opinion, 100% nailed it, then it's going to be interesting because like I would argue that Derek just did at the Arnold. Yeah. Oh god. He's chasing that look now. Yeah. I've never seen that was the best conditioning I've ever seen in my life personally in person, Dusty. And I mean, not that I'm anywhere comparable to these guys, right? I'm not trying to compare myself, but I will say this, my second show was my best conditioning ever. And then my third show, I didn't hit that. Fourth show didn't hit that. Fifth show. It took me until like, god, 2009 to 2017 to beat that that look, you know, conditioning wise. Yeah, you were bigger, but it wasn't necessarily across the board better. So, and so, yeah, that's just my my big question mark. And, and that's not adding any disrespect to her because I feel like the minute that anybody speaks out against her, it's kind of like, well, she won the Olympia, you you know, you can't you can't do that. And I I just I'm just being like completely honest here, you know, not trying to diss anybody. It's just I mean I I've Nikki and I have had this conversation before uh where I explained that I will never be as good of a coach as a reason he has more experience and he hasn't retired. So the only way I could ever catch his experience if he stopped doing it and I kept going and was working with the highle athletes for 20 more years. There's just something there's c certain things that you can't replace with experience um that that play a role. Uh but yeah, I mean I don't disagree with you with that at all. It's just one of those things where I think the safe bet for Samson is like Aceto always says, come in at 95%. Him at 95% should be enough to beat everyone. Yeah. When you shoot for that 100, that's when it becomes 85 and you take third. Yeah. If you miss, you know what I mean? Who's coaching Hottie? Because Hie's not right. Like Hy's totally retired. I'm not sure. Maybe our listeners will know. Can you guys chime in? One thing I just like I'm like, "Oh, I don't know who's coaching hottie." Yeah. So, yeah, we find out who Chris is. Holy. So, there's there's our number one. Yeah. Number one. Um, number two, Ron. Roll with it. So, I don't speak first on everything. Um, well, I mean, the Olympia isn't where we get a lot of like, oh, wow, what an amazing upset of complete juggling of everybody. Like, that's just not what we normally get. You know what I mean? I'm sort of expecting kind of a lot of the same. like like I'm expecting Derek to probably be in the top two and I'm expecting Hottie to be in the top two or three and I'm expecting Nick to be in there sort of being what he was at the Pittsburgh show with Derek where it's a big problem and they're juggling and they're not quite sure where he's going to land. And that's just kind of how I see it. I see Nick as the most polarizing of those four guys. If I had to if I had to list those four guys. I mean that's you know forgetting there's all these other incredible guys in the show that could be pushing for those spots. I mean you got Martin in there and you know you I mean you got Bonax back and like just these guys that like are really good that could push for you know top six type of placings. Um I think Nick would be the most polarizing of all of them. Right. Um, so to me, he's the guy that could land in the widest range of spots just depending on exactly what his look is. Let me ask you this, guys. What do you Who do you think is hungrier, Nick Walker for all the crap that he's been through over the past few years or Derek Lunsford for having gotten the title and lost it? You know what I mean? What's Arnold's quote? the wolf climbing the hill is hungrier than the wolf on the hill because when he's hungry the food is there. Yeah. I don't know. I feel like um my stance on that is it's the Olympia, right? And everyone in the top five is starving, you know, and I I know what you mean. Including including Samson. I I don't think he's any less hungry than the rest of them. No, that's what I mean. I I don't think that that really plays a role because, okay, if you're being honest, you know that let's just just limit it and say the top four. I still stand by the fact that if Nick were to win the Olympia, I wouldn't be like, "Oh, I can't believe it." Like, I could absolutely see him somehow pulling that off and getting it done. Yeah. So, all at least four I'll say at least four guys are going to the Olympia to win. Like truly knowing that they are there to win. um which which makes it you know off the charts. I think the thing that comes into play is just like any other sport. Um, who stays healthy, whose body cooperates, whose life cooperates, you know? I mean, that's one aspect that most people don't understand is, you know, I mean, being overly hungry could be an issue because that could throw your body off. Like you you want to just be in cruise control where things are just clicking and you're so relaxed and you wake up the morning of prejudging, you're like, "Well, they're fucked." um you know, but not worried about it, if that makes sense. So, you know, I think they all are. And um I will I will say I would love to see Nick jumble things in a way more than I expect because mentally I'm putting him in fourth if I had to just guess. Okay. And I would love for him to prove me absolutely wrong because that makes for a better show. If all of a sudden Nick is battling one and two, this is exciting. Oh yeah. You know what I mean? And not not that it wouldn't be exciting to see Derek and Hottie or I mean Derek and you know Samson or Derrick and Hottie or Hottie and Samson go toe-to-toe, but because most people who are watching see those three as the biggest threats, it does become more exciting just like the 01 Olympia when you're like, why are we looking at Jay Cutler? Why is the guy in ninth the scariest guy here? the guy in ninth from 2000, you know what I mean? So, but I think we don't have because we didn't have social media and stuff back then, you don't really get the shock you used to get, you know, because you're watching like we all knew when Martin was coming in last year that he was a lot better. Oh, yeah. But if we weren't watching him throughout the year and he would have just shown up like that, we'd have been looking at each other like, "What happened?" Yeah. So, both you neither of you guys have given us a second place. I'm just being clear. Yeah, I think Derek Derek and I do, too. All right. Okay. Yeah, I got Derek and I got Hottie. Then I got Nick for the top four. I'm going to take I'm going to take Nick for second. I I want to see that happen. Part of it might be wishful thinking, but I think that technically we are these guys are all so close to one another. Yeah. Um I I think that and let's face it, um we know we've heard stories, everybody's heard stories, Camp Jansen, there may be a lot of gear happening over there and I really do believe that Nick doesn't need to hit things as hard as he has possibly. I mean, I don't know if he's used a lot, but I imagine that it's less. I imagine that the stress load is just going to be less going on him. Uh working with Kyle Wilks is is my guess. But then, hey, there's Kyle Wilks. You know, when we talk about top Olympian competitors, then there is literally the question of, well, who is he? I mean, I think that from what I hear, he's super passionate about helping Nick. I think that he's really focused on making this work. I believe they did work together before, and from what I've heard, Nick is looking his absolute all-time best right now. So, yeah, I mean, could it happen? I I it's it's a flip of the coin for me. But just to make this fun, I'm going to say Nick Walker for a second. Healthier than ever, bigger and better than ever. Yeah. Does he have his flaws? Absolutely. We could talk about those all day, you know, but I think he's got a lot of strengths, too. And when you put when you put him up next to uh Hottie, when you put him up next to Derek, I think that he is going to be just visibly more impactful overall size-wise. conditioning is going to be lights out. That's my guess. You see these training clips? You see these training clips that Hottie's putting up? No. Like he's doing like almost seven plate barbell squats. You're kidding me. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy stuff. And like strip setting. So he'll do three or four reps with seven plates and then while he's standing there, guys pull a plate off each side. Let's see. And he does. Oh, Dusty's uh silent. Dogs got me. Um, I was gonna say I always hated it when guys would do that. I tried to do that and I'm like, "Oh, shit." I could tell when one slides off differently than the other one. Yeah. There we go. Yeah. Like, well, so he there's a free bar video as well, but this is Smith. What's that? Is that seven plates or six? One, two. Oh, it's at least seven. Could be eight. Four, five, six. It looks like seven. Yeah, I think. But yeah, could be more. No, he's doing a seven plate smith there. He does just less than that on the barbell. If we could argue how easy those reps are, by the way. Oh, yeah. That's like me doing a one and a half plate squat. That's what it looks like. They pull they pull two at a time. Okay, now he's down to five, which is still more than I most of our listeners squat, including me. That's most of the planet, Scott. Yeah, that's true, isn't it? I'm getting here down on myself because I'm not doing five plates. Down to four. I like once he's down to four, the spotter just leaves. Like, bye. You don't need more help. These guys on the side got you. But just like crazy output now if you don't put his feet just a little bit further in front. Imagine this back to the you know really inefficient here. He's not isolating. You're never doing go back go back to his videos again. Is the barbell one on his page? Is this it? Yeah. So what's this? This is six and what appears to be like a 35. I predict that hottie's legs are going to be huge. That's my prediction today. But like I'm I I just think like the impressive thing to me is this guy's not 26. Yeah. Like when I see 26 year old guys on Instagram doing this, I'm like go get him, Tagger. Like Yeah. And just don't get this out. Make that money. Like and I see a 40. What is he 40? Yeah. title. You know, you see I'm like, "God damn." Like, he's, you know, I mean, I know he's got a spotter, but I mean, a lot can go wrong with a seven plate squat. Yeah. Now, watch these guys pull these plates. They got to do it like real good timing. Oh, god. Yeah. No kidding. Right. Down to five, you know. So, like I don't know. I don't think anybody else is doing this. Not that you have to do this specifically, but it's just this is like super old school like strip sets on the barbell squat. Yeah. Oh yeah. You know what I mean? Like still going three plates now. Now I technically can you find another like as far as load versus risk? This is like as risky as it gets. Yeah. Right. Like it's barbell squat seven plates. Yeah. That's as risky as it gets. Right. It's like top of the food chain, you know, high risk exercises. So, I don't know. Heidi's a crazy psycho in the gym, man. You got to hand it to him. Let me throw one more question at you guys. How many times, you know, I'm going to talk statistics here. How many times has somebody won the Olympia, lost the Olympia, and reclaimed it? And what does that say for both hottie and Derek? It's just one, right? As far as Yeah, that Jay's the only guy that reclaimed. Oh, well, Arnold, but he never lost it. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, Jay Jay's the only guy to lose it and win it back. He's also the only one that lost it and legitimately won it back. No offense, 1980 Arnold. Yeah, that's one we can all agree with, right? That was a weird one. So, just throwing that out there. Stats-wise, I mean, and we're talking about first place, anybody, you know, any of these guys, uh, these three guys, I think could easily take second on a given day, but, you know, as far as actually winning goes, what I feel like the odds are, you know, stacked against them. So, the odds would be better statistically that Nick Walker would win than Hottie or Derek, isn't it? Right. Yeah, that's that's a valid point. Let me ask you this, though. Um, separate subject. Who's the people's champ now? Dude, I feel person You go ahead, Ron. I'm talking a lot here. Oh, it's okay. You were excited. You're ready. Go. I feel like people freaking love Samson. And it's rare that Mr. Olympia is also the people's champ, but people absolutely love Samson. I think losing the Arnold could actually like make Samson, you know how people are. Yeah. I think losing the Arnold actually could make people happier to see him win the Olympia again. Like, you know, cuz that whole thing like if you just win everything, people would start to go, "Ah, that [\h__\h] guy." Yeah. you know, and when you're not when you're you're human, like the [\h__\h] in your armor is found and you're you're more humanized like, oh [\h__\h] he didn't win the Arnold. I think seeing him win, like let's say Samson comes out hardest he's ever been and he clearly wins. I think people will be extremely happy for him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I find it interesting because I I just I think back first off, you've got Nick who I I want to make sure everybody understands I'm being sarcastic with the remarks about him retiring because I just can't believe how stupid people are. Of course. Um I I feel like him and Hottie are the people's champs. You just can't like everyone's behind Nick right now. And hottie. I mean, I always loved Hottie to begin with, but I'm sorry. When he saluted Dexter Jackson on stage, it just told me who he was. I was like, "Wow." Like the the ultimate sign of respect. Like a moment between two guys with the whole crowd there and 10 guys on stage and he just had to give Dexter his dues. Um, yeah. But yeah, I'll be cur like I'm I'm almost as curious as that award as I am the title because they are also popular now. Um, yeah, but uh you know those three in my opinion are the most popular. I'll agree with you, Scott. And um obviously Hottie's fans are the most passionate. So real quick before anyone finds my address, I have Hottie winning also. Um please do not threaten me. But um yeah, it's it's it's exciting to be back in this mix where we don't know where it can all go well and where we do know whoever the winner is, whoever comes in at their peak and deserves to win is the best thing for bodybuilding, you know, whereas before it did it was a little rough like you're like h I mean I know fans have been irritated but I mean I've passed on the Olympia multiple times knowing who was going to win and I was like I've seen the show a million times. I'm going to go to dinner. Uh, this year will not be that year. No, I said I'm I'm glad that we're not in another um, you know, dynasty phase. Yeah. Yeah. I I I saw all of Phil's wins. I saw them all, whether prejudging or finals, at least one of the shows. But it's not that exciting. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Um, did you guys see this? We just had breaking news come across the Instagram. What's that? Um, Ronnie Coleman hospitalized with serious medical condition. As per his official statement from the Coleman family. Okay. So, that's not good news. Uh, we wish Ronnie the best obviously. And, uh, yeah, they've released a statement here um, saying that he was admitted to the hospital on Sunday morning due to serious medical condition. Okay. He's currently receiving expert medical care and continues to show his incredible strength and resilience at this time. We respect you. Don't speculate, etc. blah blah blah. Yeah. Um, thank you, the Coleman family. So, that's the official statement. So, whatever Ronnie's going through, we uh wish him the best. He's the king. So, that's a rough one. That's uh Ronnie is my Dorian to you, Ron. Like I grew up in the sport with Ronnie winning and uh so he will always be the king in my brain, right? You know, that's Wow. That's a you know, but I'll also say Ronnie is Ronnie and uh whatever he's going through, if someone could get through it, it'll be him. Absolutely. You know, on a brighter note, while we're on these bad subjects, uh, how great was it to see Fouad walking? Oh, yeah. That video of Fouad. And then he he even like cracked a little joke there. He tried to show his butt. Yeah. But he couldn't get the the hospital gown apart or whatever. He tried to show it show his butt and uh and looked like he even kind of had a bit of a chuckle. Um, which was like, holy [\h__\h] I mean, that's that's that's a key thing right there. Um, see the bolts in his neck? Yep. Yeah. Like, man, he's so lucky to be walking and talking like [\h__\h] No kidding. I mean, he broke his neck, you know. Yeah. And uh, you know, I've known a few guys over the years, big bodybuilders. Yeah. Who have broken their necks. Okay. And it's always the same thing. The doctor says, "Man, your your muscle saved your spinal cord." I've heard stories like that, too. It held your head on your body and prevented those vertebraes from like, you know, going crazy and ripping everything apart in there. Yeah. You know, and you look at a guy like Fouad with the neck he's got even even, you know, I mean, he's still 240 lbs or something, isn't he? So, yeah. Fouad's not small. No, he's still he's still squatting four plates for reps and like you know he's still strong as [\h__\h] and um you know I mean his head is is on his body still for a reason and uh so I mean that that muscle man come in handy. I had another acquaintance guy I competed with. Um he was ejected from his pickup truck on the highway and he went through a road sign like those big road signs. Oh. That say like this many miles and this many miles. You know, the big green ones. Yeah. He was ejected from his truck on the highway and went through one of those signs. Wow. He was 300 plusbs when he got ejected and uh broke his neck. Broke a bunch of vertebraes in his neck and uh didn't didn't damage his spinal column or spinal cord. Put his neck back together and he got back in the gym and you know, crazy crazy. So, Fuad's very lucky and we're very happy for him. Yeah. No kidding. I'm I'm uh and and this is probably going to sound awful, but oh well, I'm going to say it and I hope people understand what I mean. I'm very excited to meet the post near-death experience Fouad. I was thinking Dusty when I saw him walking about you. I that's the first thing I thought of was you coming back from your coma and that's my thought too, man. It's like I wonder how is this can't help but be affected by something so huge as this, right? Well, he I mean this is me um my opinion of what he's probably seeing, but Fouad's not dumb and he's very aware he's lucky to be alive. Yeah. Um I mean my So my friend that got in an accident two years ago had the same thing happen. Okay. um hit a car, went over the car, and he hit his head hit the tire of a stopped semi and that's why he um so very similar thing and it was in an instant. So yeah, that all by itself just shows uh without ju without getting into beliefs or anything to me that just means your time is not up. Uh because if it was supposed to be, you'd be gone. And uh you know, Fouad already gives the world, not bodybuilding, the world so much. Um but I think the next version, the Fuad 2.0 is going to be even more special. Um I think that the people rallying around him as a human, not as a business owner, not as a podcaster, not as a professional bodybuilder, just people who have shown that they love Fouad and what he's done. Even as well known as he is, I think he was has got to be like, "Holy crap." Like, these people care. I mean, like, it I had people that never knew him coming up to me in the gym and they like, you could see they were shook. Yeah. When it first came out. So, I I'm I'm I I think that uh we're all very thankful he's still with us. But, uh what we have to be thankful for is yet to be seen as at an even higher level because he's always been special. And I think the next version is going to be even more um and that's going to be something where he can continue to give to people well beyond bodybuilding. Yeah, it's going to be it's going to be cool. There's a um I I imagine Dusty there is a unique experience of kind of being dead or you know comaed or you know or should have been Yeah. or should have been dead or looking at an X-ray going, "Oh my god, I shattered my neck and I'm still moving my feet." Like that crazy life experience. Um I've never been that close to, you know, the pearly gates. But uh I imagine you guys you guys might have something to talk about next time you see them, right? Yeah. It's funny, but um I uh I had another guy and I'll drop his name because oh well, but um Damian that owns uh AZ Pros, the guy who uh trains Drea. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. He came up to me at the um Phoenix, one of the shows I go to there. I don't even know what the hell it's called, but uh and I'd known him for years and we always like cordial. Hey, hey, and keep walking. And he came over and like had a full conversation with me and I could tell he was different and I was like, "You good, man? You seem really good." And he explained he had a near thing changed his whole like I could tell talking to him that something was different. and he's always been a solid guy and a phenomenal coach, right? But I mean, I knew before he said and I was like, "You seem really good." And he told me his situation, he's like, "The whole world is different now." Right. Yeah. And I And that's why he goes, "Obviously, I'm telling you because you can relate." So, yeah, there is something and I I say that all the time like when you have that in your back pocket, you actually feel like you've been giving an unfair advantage to take advantage of life, right? you know, because we're all I mean, even when someone's close to you, it impacts you, but it's not quite the same as, you know, your eyes opening up and realizing, wait, how long have they been closed? Right? You know, oh, a month. You're like, oh, you know, so it's going to be uh it's going to be really really cool. So, I'm excited. But I think that he's at a level and has a platform where he can be more impactful to other people. And I I hope they can see that because I'll also say that it doesn't always work that way. Um I've had conversations with people who reach out similar situation and they have struggles which of course there's struggles that take place after something like that and they're bitter about the struggles instead of thankful about the life and right I I didn't know what to say. I was like I don't know how that could be your take. I don't know how. I I uh I know that the recovery um I mean Fouad's going to deal with a lot. Um, I know the recovery is going to be a long hard road uh from here, but I imagine he will he's like he's going to motivate a lot of people with the way he crushes it and handles it and talks about it and deals with it cuz I I just remember back to his his check-in photos from the locker room that he used to post on and you know like how many people he motivated through from that era all the way up to now. So, you know, kind of unleashing the next level of fuad, you know. Mhm. I used to read his blogs, Ron. Yeah. When I was really young, I used to read his blogs and it it made me realize that the guys at the next level were doing the same thing I was doing, which I thought was wild. Yeah. Yeah. Just simple. Very relatable. And you're like, "Okay." And it really did help me um because I had somebody to look at going, "Okay." He was also very relatable in the struggles of it. Yeah. Yeah. You know, because the [\h__\h] you talk to Jay and there, you know, hats off to him. But you, it's hard for most people to relate because Jay just executes. There's no thinking it. It's not exhausting, right? As far as you know, he never doesn't want to do it. Like, it's just a machine. And Fouad's like, I do not want to do this, right? This cardio sucks, but I'm doing it. But here I am, you know? So, no, it's gonna be great. So, I just wanted to switch that tone a little bit and just, you know, uh send our uh thanks for Fouad for what he's already done and what he's already doing. You know, I mean, most people the last thing you're thinking about in where he's at is putting it out there and already using your platform to help other people. And I know he's updating us, but I I don't know that people realize how great it is for them to see and be like, if he can bounce back from this, and he will, there's nothing in your life you can't bounce back from. Also, one last thing is when you were in a coma, Fu had reached out to me and he was like, "Hey, man, if you need like I understand that you want to keep the show going like in Dusty's absence just to keep everyone going, you know what I mean? And so, if you want me to come on like just let me know." That was really cool. So, he was like one of the guys that came on the show and I did an episode with me while you were gone. And that's before Scott was even on the show. So, it was just like just just us, right? Right. So, that was nice of him. But yeah, he he said like, you know, I want to keep the show going and you know, just keep it rolling, right? You can talk about how Dusty's not there like you know that. Right. So, that's what we did. Yeah. Yeah. Really glad he's busy with other shows, right? I came back to no job. Um, I just folded the whole thing. So, you had a bunch of great questions on that box you posted. I should hit some of those. Yeah, these were solid. I I love when you throw them up because you don't I mean we just say let anything go. Um but some people gave some fun stuff here. So let me just find one and then I'm going to look through more once it's done too um just to get the next one. But uh we've got a few too from uh YouTube as well that we can get to today. Okay, here we go. This is a simple one and I can use it to go to some other ones. What's the longest you would go in between shows? Do you think there's a point where even with reasonable health and not being too fat that you reach the point of diminishing returns on an offseason? Um, well, I mean, I don't think there's any I don't think so. I I don't think that a long offseason actually becomes unproductive. I think what happens is people who say that they lose motivation and they lose focus and they lose structure in their off seasons. So that's why they say like oh you know there's I think there's those people that only have the right mentality when there's a show to get ready for and I think that that's um a negative and not a positive trait in a bodybuilder. It doesn't mean you can't do extremely well. some if you pair that with great genetics and work ethic, you can win show after show after show and go pro quickly. We've seen that. But I I think that being able to just not compete and just enjoy being a bodybuilder for a couple of years while you finish school or work on your oh, I'm getting my my plumbing fourth year ticket so I can makeund, you know, 180 grand a year and then I'm going to compete again like in 2027. I mean, hey, those guys are smart, man. That's that's sometimes a smart call. I can't I can't say that's not a bad idea. Do you know what I mean? Oh, yeah. Um, and I think it's a positive trait if you can stay focused and stay progressive and work that log book or whatever your system is and just make progress. I don't think that it's a great thing to always have to have a show to do. Does that answer the question? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Scott, I got one, but I want to hear yours. I would say I I'm with you that Ron that one of the issues I think that comes up is that people end up with that long fa if they have one year they're like oh man that means I only have six months to grow and a lot of times unless you're already pretty close that's even pretty tight you know um I think 18 months is a good amount of time to be able to show a decent amount of progress for an average person you know maybe if you're dusty or Ron you can make bigger progress uh in a shorter period of time with the right focus and food and training and everything else. But I would say 18 months is a good minimum time. And I don't have a problem with two years. Like two years between shows, I think is really solid because it gives you enough time to to really put on a a nice amount of tissue. And I do want to shout out one of the guys that I uh work with. Um he uh so we competed I think it was last gosh, what was it? It was like basically he competed last season and then he was thinking, you know, we're going to take this year now to grow. It was like right toward the end of the season and it was his first national show. He got seventh place at uh I believe it was USA's that we did and uh in classic Yeah. Yeah. And the the lineup was, you know, incredible. So, I think that this guy really does have the potential, too. and um he said, 'You know, we're going to let's plan for early 2026. And so we've taken all 2025 to grow. And he got the bug, the itch to like, let's get this going, you know, and he said, hey, what do you think about doing the Arnold amateur? And I said, well, you know, we could and then it would be, you know, a little bit of a jump to Junior Nationals, uh, or Junior USA. And and then he said, well, what do you think about if I do that show now? He's going to try to say, well, what if we do the Detroit Pro? you know, that's my qualifying show. So, now we're like a, you know, April and we don't have his target show until like May, June, July is where we're really Anyway, I'm I'm grateful because I left it up to him. I was like, well, I think you'd have a lot of fun at the Detroit Pro. I think, you know, the amateur part of it. I think you'd have a lot of fun at the Arnold. Statistically, there's only one card there. You're not going to get the best competitors that show up at like, you know, USA's, North Americans, and and nationals. But, you know, if if that's what you want to do. So, anyway though, he made the decision to put it off. He's putting in two solid years and I mean, he's made some like incredible progress. Like, he's able to sit at like 265 having been 200 previously. So, I think that this is going to be like absolutely lights out for him. So, I I don't know. I delay the gratification I think is the big one. But that's not to say that, man, if you're doing a lot of really great stuff and you're close. Let me leave with that one last thing. Where are you? You know, if if you just say missed your pro card by one place two times, then you you know, why don't you just get ready to compete the next season because you just about have it, you know? But if you have, if you're seventh place, let's take two years. Yeah. I think um my my two cents on this is simple. First off, I did it just that. I won my first overall in08. There was that was in October. Nationals was one month later in November. And I was like, I'm not ready. And I just told myself back in the day, you you could you could go on MD every Sunday morning and see all the all the shows, all the regional level shows, and see who won. And I just told myself, I want to watch these shows knowing I could have won all of them or at least been a tossup before I even consider doing a proqualifier. Um, so I ended up waiting another, it was July of 2010 before I competed again. Um, and that was a good weight. But the big thing, like you said, Scott, is and Ron, you have to you have to treat a longer offseason as a truthful thing. I think people go, I have a long time now. I was like, no, no, you have the time you need, which means you need every day of it. I think when you're obsessive and you if you love bodybuilding and you love training, that part was easy. I always felt like the, you know, time was ticking on my back in November of ' 08 for a show. I didn't even know when it was going to be, but I knew the harder I worked, the more focused I was, the quicker that show would happen. And then my next caveat is what you just said, Scott, which is when you're in the mix, now it's time to just keep going. Yeah, I I I mean, there's a guy at our gym that I think is uh really good. He just uh he just won the show here. Easy win for him. It's not this show, but he's like I said, "What are you doing next?" Like, he's he's on the edge of being a pro um if he comes in perfectly. And he's like, "I'm going to do North Americans." I'm like, "Great, understood." But in the back of my head, I was like, "Why wouldn't you do the USA's first? They're five weeks apart." Yeah. Like to me when you're on that zone, it's like do the USA's, maybe you don't need to do North Americans or you're in third and you're like five more weeks, go straight to it. Right. Right. You know, I mean, a lot of guys take advantage of the time that you're in shape and and those are short windows. I mean, five weeks, it's a painful five weeks, but it's easy versus one crack, especially your first national qualifier or pro qualifier because you you are introducing yourself at that level. I don't care what anyone says when the show is stacked. Um, and I know that isn't like it used to be, but when there's seven guys they've seen five times, unless you're coming in and just dusting them, you're starting out in seventh if there's six guys they've already known. You know what I mean? You need to find a way to get into that mix. Yeah. Because I will say, and I'm not saying there's any bias, but I know that when I come out to do my third Pro qualifier, they see my name on the sheet and they look up at me and they go, "Oh, he looks like [\h__\h] Never mind." Or, "He looks awesome." We'll we'll remember that. You know what I mean? And there are occasions, and I know Ron's seen this, too. It's like there are guys that you're like, "How did that guy not make the top five even though the top five was really good?" And the reason is they had already filled the top five. great guys they knew and he ended up in sixth or seventh you know didn't even get to stand next to him and that's a big thing but once you're in that mix to me that's when it's every single year at least one or two shows a year if you're in the states we have a huge advantage there's a lot of proqualifiers to me not doing two backtoback is crazy yeah I I remember 2009 I went to my first North Americans and I'd already done a bunch of nationals but I had never bothered going to the states And I went to my first North Americans and uh I I thought I looked pretty good. I was working with Chad. I went out, did my thing, wound up in the second call out. They put me right in the middle of the second call out. Okay. And then we were done. And you know, third call out, fourth call out went, whatever. And I was backstage and I was like disappointed because I didn't make the the top five call out, right? And I thought I was in better condition. Yeah. I thought I was in better condition than several of the guys in the top five, but they were really big. like they were big guys. Yeah. And I was like, "Fuck, I thought, you know, I thought I'd do better." And um I've told this story before to Dusty, I think, but I was backstage and and of course Super Heavyweights is at the end of prejudging, so it's like really emptying out, right? 2009. There's not a bunch of other classes going on, right? Yeah. So, it's still the Yeah. The back room is The back room is very empty at this point. Yeah. And um I remember Flex Wheeler and Stan Eferting came backstage and they were going to see Keith Williams, okay, who had made the first call out. Think he wound up second or third and Keith was a huge guy and they were walking across the room, the big empty room to see Keith Williams and um Stan looked over and saw me and I was putting my tracksuit on. Yeah. and he nudged Flex and pointed and Flex and him turned like 90 degree turn and came towards me. Holy crap. And I was like I look behind me. There's no one behind me. It's just a curtain. Maybe Keith is behind me, you know? Yeah. No, Keith's like over on the other side of the room and I'm like, okay. They're walking towards me specifically. I'd never met either one of them. I'd met I'd met Flex at the Olympia, but he wouldn't remember me. Right. Right. And they're walking towards me and they just come right up to me and the first words out of Stan's mouth was, "They just missed you." And they both shook my hand. They go, "You look great." And I go, "Thanks." And then Flex goes, "Yeah, they just didn't see you until it was too late." Huh? And then I was like, "Oh, well, thanks for that." And then they said, "Yeah, have a good show." And then they just walked away. And I was like, "Oh, I felt better about that." You know what I mean? Yeah, for sure. Wow. The next year, 2010, I show up. We're all lined up and they're calling names and the first call out has six guys in it this time. Okay. I still wound up in sixth. Okay. But my point is they didn't call my number. Steve said Ron. Yes. Yep. So he's like calling names like Keith, you know. Yep. Dave Dave 246 247 Ron. Yeah. And I remember thinking, okay. Yep. He knows my name now. That's a that's that's part of the game. That's you know, Ronnie, I don't know if I said this on the show before, but that's what happened to me in 14. The stage at North Americans, I don't know if you've been, Scott, it's really small. It's my favorite show. Six super heavyweights up there. There's nowhere to stand. Yeah. So, we all fan out for the call outs and they call out the top four guys by by number and I literally hear Steve whisper over somebody, "Where's Dusty?" And then he goes, "Dusty." That was it. So, I start to walk to the side because you walk out yourself. So, as I walked over, he goes, "To the middle." And I was like, "Yes, got it." You know, but because of the numbers, they were looking and he was trying to find my number and he's like, "Ah, screw it. just said my name. Yeah. Yeah. He's like, I know who I'm looking for. It doesn't matter. There's 26 of them. So, it does matter for you guys that are that are coming up. So, definitely introduce yourself at that level. Um, it's gamechanging. Also, on that introduction thing, separate topic, do yourself a favor and and look like you want to be there when you walk on stage. I'm shocked at how many guys like mosy out to the middle for their individual. I'm like, "Dude, I'm bored watching you." Yeah. Yeah. Walk out there. Be like, "I'm the guy you've been waiting to see." You guys got to remember, if you're a super heavyweight, they've sifted through hundreds of people. They're tired. They want to go home. And if you look like you want to go home, too, that's a problem. They'll send you. Exactly. I uh I had a funny runin with um Gary Udit, the the promoter of North Americans. So, at my first North Americans, I entered LA last minute, right? Because it was a week after nationals, so I entered last minute. So, I didn't have time to mail my fee, right? So, I emailed someone and they're like, "Just just pay it. Pay it to Gary, blah, blah, blah." And they gave me some like didn't sound very official. And I was like, "Okay, I'm just going to show up and hopefully they'll let me compete, right?" And I'm worried they might not let me compete, but now I realize they'll take your money. Don't worry. So, don't worry. So, I show up and they weigh me in and everything and Gary's not around because I'm doing the late weigh-in on Thursday or whatever night I arrive, Thursday night or whatever. So, I'm like, you know, it's a bit of a mess, bit of chaos. They're like, "Just pay Gary." And I'm like, "Okay." So, um, I do the show. I don't see Gary. I don't even know who Gary is yet. You still haven't paid him yet. Still haven't paid him yet. Do the whole show. I'm leaving the night show. Yeah. With my sixth place, right? I'm leaving the night show and I see Gary, Steve Weinberg, and the big man, Jim Man. Jim. Yeah. Okay. Standing together talking. Yeah. And I I hear somebody say something and then I look and I see Gary and I realize that's Gary. Yeah. I'm like, "Oh, that's Gary unit." Yeah. So, I take a $100 American out of my wallet, which is 500 now. Go ahead. Right. Right. And I just walk and I just walk over and I kind of stand there and they're all talking and they all look at me and none of them know me yet. Right. Right. And they all look at me and I go, "Hey guys, sorry to interrupt." I go, "Gary, my name's Ron Partllo. I'm from Canada. I was a late entry. I haven't paid you yet." Yeah. And I gave and he I handed him $100 cash. And he took it and he looked at Jim and Steve and he goes, "Fucking Canadians." He goes, "Thanks, man." Yeah. He goes, "Uh, typical Canadian." He goes, "Thank you." He goes, "Nobody does this." Wow. And I said, "Well, I appreciate you having the show and letting us come down and do the show." And then Manion and Steve looked at me and they're like, "Kate." Yeah. And I swear to God, that was my first meeting with all of them. And now they all know my name. How's it going? Yeah, but it's just, you know, don't rip people off. Crazy bicep trick while you're curling on Instagram in order to get their attention. You know what I mean? That was classic. Just pay them your money and they'll know your name. Yeah. No, that's great, man. I love all these stories, by the way, guys, about the old school national shows. It's kind of like it's taking me back to I didn't That was before Apple level then, you know, like I wasn't part of that, but I was that was Oh, go ahead. I was just going to say I was a big fan of that. And I think part of it is like when I started competing, I started watching the Do you remember Raising the Bar with a Pulsella? I saw them all. Oh yeah, dude. I loved those movies so much, you know, and I like watching that and seeing what North Americans looked like, you know, and I think Raise the Bar three. Uh I I No, it wasn't Rais Yeah. was it raising the bar three? Yeah. Anyway, I'm getting ahead. No, two. Sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself here. Yeah, two. So, I'll tell you what. When I first went to North Americans, I felt like I was on the set of my favorite movie. Right. Right. Right. My favorite movie was filmed here and the sequel. Yeah. The whole trilogy. I really filmed here. I was like, "Oh, wow. There's the staircase." And you know, there's that's the room where he collapsed with cramps. Right. This is the hallway that the paramedics wheeled him down. Did Dave Pson use this hairdryer when his camp cramp collapsed? Right. Right. Is this is this the outlet? He plugged it into. Yeah. Oh man, that is such a classic way of seeing it, Scott. It's funny when I went to uh weigh-ins at might have been North America's USA, whatever it was. And uh I came in and everyone was talking to me, you know, all the promoters and all the people and this kid goes, "Man, it must be nice that everyone knows who you are." I go, "It just means I've lost that many times." Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh god. Don't get confused, kid. It's not really that good. All right. All right. So, I got I got a good one for you guys that I that I like. This was a lengthy one, but I liked it. All right. You get to do a one time a year on your birthday every year. You can choose to travel back to any given day in the past to relive again or any day in the future to see it. But your choice stays past or present for all remaining birthdays. No. 2026 go in the past and 2027 go in the future. Which do you choose? Uh, but I can do anything I want on those days. I'm not letting you steal things to make money though. Okay, go ahead. Yeah, I changed one thing or we're all going to have the same. So, I can't go buy Bitcoin in 2012. No, you should be able to. No, but no. Yeah, we're not allowing that because that would just change all of our edges really easily. Yeah. Damn. Um, so part of me wants to pick Go to the past so I could see like legendary events. Like I go to like a 1970s AC/DC concert, right? But um I I'm now the type of person that really likes money. Um so I would travel I would travel to the future maybe five 10 year increments and just check out the stock market and the price of everything. What's a good investment and just get a little bit of a peak peek into the future for that sort of stuff and make sure my health checks out and oh gez I missed a tumor. you could change, you know. Yeah. Oh, damn. That happened. Okay, I'll quit doing this. Um, that sort of stuff. That's great, Scott. I know that's not very fun, but my question, so I get to always go last. It's fun. I'm going to make it more fun. I'm going to have like a fun one. And And I got to tell you, this is kind fun. That's the lesson. So, it was practical. It was practical. And I feel like I'd be a little stressed though, too, Ron, if like I went forward and I found out stuff that was like Yeah. car accident. But if I don't go and walk in front of that car, then what else is gonna happen, you know? Right. Yeah. Butterfly effect. Here we go. But here's here's my thought. And this is maybe I'm telling you guys a little bit too much about myself. I like sci-fi. I'm not going to lie. Um I have an idea for a date day time machine is what I call it. And I would love if we could have a time machine to go we go back in time together. We pick a time. Maybe we're It wasn't the game, but Go ahead. Yeah. 1930s, you know, and like we have to you'd have to think about like, well, how would you dress in the 19th? The only thing I would bring with me that's not from that time period would be my staccato just to make sure we keep us out of trouble. But, uh, outside of that, I I'd take any time I'd be so fascinated by it. In fact, I've seen video footage that people had like VHS from 85 inside of a 7-Eleven and they just filmed for 10, 15 minutes goofing around. And that to me is like a voyage looking at or the 70s. There's the cameras they have from like the the 20s and they'll be like this is New York City in 1905 and they just have a camera sitting on the street and people are walking by it looking into it and they keep What is that? Yeah. It's just running. I'm like oh man I would take anything. I can't even pick. That's that's how awesome that would be. It would be super fun to go back in time and just try to blend in for a day. Get because you you just think of all the things you'd do that would accidentally get you noticed like just behaving. You can't even speak. Yeah. Yeah. You got to be taught. Remember the other day when I said, "Hey, see like Yeah. Upload to where? Dusty's like, "Can I have a bottled water?" Yeah. You are from the future. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's that's valid. Um, I would definitely go back. Um, but I think what would be fun, for example, is like I would love to go back to some of the old great hockey games. Okay. Cuz you're the only one in the arena that knows what happens. Would you? But that means you can't bet, right? You're not No, no, no. Yeah, we're keeping it non-financial. Just because, you know, I definitely experienced this when I took the girls to a couple big concerts. I actually enjoy watching other people like have a good time. Yeah, I do too. In in the world that we live in where everyone is like hating on everyone all the time, like I love to go to a concert and just look around and be like, "Look at all these different people like just having a great time doing the same thing. There's people here that you don't think would ever know each other, you know?" So, so doing something like that and like you said, Ron, there are moments in time that we know are ridiculous that it's like I just pop into that. Yeah. And check it out. That's kind of what I'm saying, man. I'd just love to see anything. Yeah. But it would be I think I'd go the opposite route as you, Scott, though. I'd roll in making sure they know I'm messed up from the future. What are you putting in your mouth? Ah, it's just a Zen. Don't worry about it. You guys will go through a lot until you get the Zins. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're going to get a lot of cancer before you figure this. I also would really love to go sit in a restaurant where they ask me if I want smoking or non-smoking section. Oh, yeah. Oh, I I told the girls about that. They're like, "What do you mean?" I was like, "Well, you could choose." They were like, "You could smoke in a restaurant." I'm like, "Oh, yeah, absolutely." And the section didn't matter at all cuz you were all in the smoking section. Oh, man. I I I still vividly remember, you know, I worked in the bar for 16 years. I started in 1993 working in the in the nightclubs smoking bars and and I remember 2003 in in well in Canada anyways in Edmonton. Yeah. 2003 they were passed the law no more smoking indoors. Okay. And all of a sudden there was no smoke in the bar. And I remember how unbelievably dramatic the change was cuz I had gotten so used to it. Right. So I went home that night and I showered and the smell of cigarettes didn't come out of my hair. Oh yeah. Or your clothes. Yeah. Because I would come home and I would just wreak like cigarettes and I would change my clothes and throw them in the washing machine cuz even if I put them in the [\h__\h] laundry the bedroom would smell like cigarettes. Oh yeah. So I would put them in the laundry 3 in the morning load of laundry goes in. I'd shower, shampoo everything. Yeah. and you'd smell like thick rich cigarette smoke coming down off of you as you showered. And I remember that first night in the bar having being able to like see across the room. I was like, "Holy shit." And then I came home and showered and I was like, "Holy, I've been killing myself working there." Like I had so much exposure to secondhand smoke the whole time I was there for that's 10 years in the bar, right? And I just remember like I remember that and people now are like what? Yeah. Yeah. You lived like that, you know? It was also a rougher time cuz back then you' be like, "Look at that girl across the bar. She's hot." And you get over there going, "Oh man, that smoke really gave her some help." Yeah. Yeah. And remember guys, if she smokes, she pokes. All right, I got I had one thing I want to throw in, and that's because I just thought of this this morning. Was there a a time in your life, Ron, because I think Dusty, you may have been too young for this. Was there a time in your life, Ron, where there was no seat belt laws? No, that was in the 70s in Canada. Okay. So, as a kid, there weren't seat belt laws. There were like at least Yeah. I don't think there were My mom used to make us buckle up cuz we're really little kids, but I remember some people's parents didn't make them buckle up. Yeah. And then it changed like really early on in my life and you were forced to put a belt on whether you want to or not. But I remember that back seats used to just have lap belts. Oh yeah. Yeah. Which literally cut you in half if you get in a rear end. If you get rear end somebody drive around in our old 77 Bonavville. My we had they had a big bench seat in the front and then armrest came down and my seat cuz I was a little kid would be sitting on the armrest. Yeah. Yeah. Right through. First one to die. And and if you notice, Scott would be the first person to know we got in a car accident. And you know people that drive those like they restore an old 60s car or whatever and there's no headrest. Oh yeah. Yeah. You're like, "Oh jeez, that's a broken neck." Where the metal glove box that comes down and you know, just chops it right off. Like there was a car they call it like it would, you know, literally a metal glove box is just like sheet metal that lines right up with your neck when you fly forward. Ron, remember that terrible movie that we both said we watched with uh uh oh god, there's Hardy in it. Um there's a part in that movie where the guy gets in his car, he goes, "Is that a cigarette lighter? Does this thing actually work?" Like he was so excited and it when that happened, it reminded me. I was like, "Oh yeah, that was a thing. You pushed it in and waited for it to heat up and then just take it out." Yeah. Yeah. I remember I saw a meme the other day. It was like a burn mark from one of those. Oh man. Said it said, "You know you're old if you know what this is." Yeah, exactly. Very valid. Okay, I screenshot this because it keeps going away. Yeah, but I liked this one. Um Oops. Maybe I could learn how to use my phone. That would be good. Um All right, here it is. How do you balance wanting more versus satisfaction? I do what I can and I feel like it's the best I can do right now. I'm an average gym bro that wants to compete in four years. In the gym, I'm not nearly as big as most. Within the rest of the world, I feel I look way better than most. Does this feeling ever go away? It's a great question. Does it ever go away? Forget about those people in the outside world. Only focus on the biggest people that you know and compare yourself to them constantly. Tell yourself that you're not going to be good enough ever until you don't do that in June. It's a bad month for that kind of thinking. Um, you know, men's mental health award. Wow. Be big. Well, there's Hey, there's a certain amount of like there's a certain amount of healthiness in that drive like com, you know what I mean? Like I applaud the drive to compare yourself to the top, right? Yeah. But also, I don't know. I don't know how healthy is this person other than this to to me like when I when I read that question I think the magic is in how you frame the mindset of that right like I think it's important to frame that when other people you know and let's try your best to not think about the very best in the world at bodybuilding because they are not human but other people have done something it means you right? You know, and if you're chasing, you know, when I got into bodybuilding, I had no idea what my limitations were. It wasn't until like two weeks later. Um but but when you get But when you know that someone can do it, as long as you don't shift that into a bad framing, that allows you to be the best you can be. I mean, I tell you right now, Ron and I in our careers and the time that we came together were pretty close. And if we could have trained together during that time period, we would have both been better. Yeah. You know what I mean? Because you've got someone right there and we both have a lot of people that are way ahead of us that you're also chasing down. I think where it becomes a negative with a lot of the a lot of my clients even is that they look at those people and they're not even putting into account things like time, genetics, drugs, all these other factors and they're thinking, "I've been training for like a year now. I don't look anything like that." You're like, "Yeah, they didn't look anything like that a year into it either." Right? You know what I mean? So, I think that as long as you're framing it right, it should be a great thing. But at the end of the day, I tell all my clients the same thing, which is you need to be urgent with the day-to-day things that you need to do to be a greater bodybuilder and you need to be patient with everything else. There's also I think something that I say to myself, hey, I don't know if this is good or not, but you know how they say like the end goal is not the point. Like the whole the work is the point. Yeah. Like that's how you get there. You don't just get there by thinking about the end goal. You get there by doing the work repeatedly over and over and over. I I when I have goals that I'm trying to accomplish, I also try to remind myself like you're doing a great job at doing the thing. Yep. You know what I mean? I don't necessarily think of the trick I can't do yet. I think about how I'm doing a great job at putting in the work to eventually do that thing. So then I I believe it will happen. It's a matter of time. Mhm. Or I'm doing a great job at, you know, doing this with my diet repeatedly day after day. So I know the goal will be achieved because I'm doing a great job at doing the thing. And it focus on the process and that sort of stuff I think is important instead of always just looking at pictures of, you know, Ronnie's arms and going, "Oh, my arms suck." It's like that's not going to help you. I never thought about the end goal. Um because it was so simple in my brain. I was like, I want to be disgusting. It was my literal word. I was like, I just want to be that person that people think is gross, right? And I just did bodybuilding every day. And I've told the story a million times. I remember the day and where I was sitting when I looked in the mirror and went, "Oh, I'm disgusting." Right? And what's funny about that is I looked that way in the morning when I got dressed in front of a mirror, but you just it just because I wasn't focused on I didn't even notice and then I just happened to look up at the right time with a pump and went, "Oh, that's weird. Okay, we're there." You know, so I think that that's where a lot of people are missing is they're hunting that. And that was literally years into bodybuilding. Scott. Yeah. And I was like, "Oh." Because my issue was, and I think this is most people, especially if you played sports, people would see me and they could tell I worked out and I was bigger than most, and they'd go, "Oh, do you play football?" or, "Oh, do you do this?" And I was purely a bodybuilder at this point. But I understood where the question came from. Like, I didn't look like a bodybuilder. I just look like a bigger guy. And then eventually, you hit that point where no one's asking if you play sports. They're like, "Oh, you're a bodybuilder." Yeah. We've had the question, um, how do you tell people, you know, like your family or your girlfriend that you use gear? And my answer has always been, get big enough so that they don't even wonder. You know what I mean? Yeah, that's pretty simple. It's actually funny. I I'll share the story because I was telling my friend Brandon about the other day. Um, when I got into body language, Scott, and I like really decided to do it. Yeah. Um, I was poor and uh, we all were. My mom was like, uh, I told her, I said, "Yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna become a professional bodybuilder." And she was like, "Okay." Yeah. She goes, "Do you have to take steroids to do that?" And I was like, "Yeah, lots of them, man." And she's like, "Are they expensive?" And I said, "Well, they they cost about this much to get." And she goes, "Well, how are you going to afford that?" And I was like, "I don't I don't know. I mean, I'm like paying for my food at the point and my mortgage. I had a house at this point and things." And she's like, "All right, well, if I gave you $500 a month for a year, would that help?" And my mom didn't have a bunch of money. She was just one of those moms. And I was like, "Yeah." She's like, "You don't have to use it all for steroids, but it it'll help your bodybuilding." And I was like, "This is a really awkward conversation, mom." But yeah, so my my mom gave me $6,000 my first year of like really getting into bodybuilding to help with food, supplements, and supplements. She believes in you, you know, that's really down to like the only thing she asked me, she goes, "Just make sure you know what you're doing with the steroids." And I was like, "Okay." And then we never talked about it again and she always knew I was doing them and apparently knew she knew she was buying them. That's so funny. Mom of the year right there. Yeah. She believed in you. I think it's a really cool story. Yeah. She was like, "Ah, screw it. I'll just give my kids some drugs." Anyways, how to make your kids love you 101. She was playing the long game. She's like, "He'll have to pay me back eventually." Oh, man. All right. Simple one from uh our good friend Lucas. What are your guys' guilty pleasures? And this is from the movie the other night. He said, "I know Dusty likes to add M&M's to his popcorn, but maybe he got some more interesting ideas." Guilty pleasures. Gentlemen, mine is uh pizza. Um some pizza. I love me some pizza. Or a piece of like a milk chocolate bar, like dairy milk or Hershey like just chocolate. I don't want a candy bar. That's milk chocolate, you know, like Hershey's Kisses or something like that. If you give me a handful of those, they're gone. Yeah. or like a a a a good chocolate chip cookie. Like that's really like those three things. If I could have a little bit of those three things, I could eat like contest food like oatmeal and egg whites and chicken and rice the rest of my life. Yeah, you do. Yeah, pretty much. So do we. Yeah. A little bit of chocolate chip cookie, a little bit of milk chocolate, couple slices of pizza once in a while. I'm like, that's that's it. I love that. You know, uh Ron, on that note, one of the things that I love doing when I'm smoking a cigar is, uh I like chocolate, like they have these chocolate, like they're dark chocolate with caramel in them. Oh, that you buy them buy at uh Costco. Yeah. And I have one. You have one. It's all I need. Salted chocolate. I just want one of those and it's like the greatest thing in the world. And it's but I don't even want more than one. Like that's great. Moving on with life. Yeah. Uh what's something you got, Scott? Uh does it have to be food? No. Just says guilty pleasures. Keep it clean though. We have children. I would say the the gun stuff that I've got. Like there's there's some things that it's funny because Victoria initially I'd like tell her well like this would be a really good weapon for home defense and you know that's the role that it would play. But then she'd be like well you really need another one then and another one. 17 home defense guns. We're past that point and it's just fun to me. Like I I find like the craftsmanship of and and like the history of different guns to be really cool and it's something I know I definitely don't need, but I appreciate them like I would appreciate art or the way that somebody would appreciate like a the way like a person who drives a like a nice car appreciates cars. Like I I love the mechanics, the machinery of it, how it was designed and how it like where it came from. I don't even think of it then as the other side of things. But then also too, I do enjoy training. So there's kind of a split. There's like kind of guilty pleasure, but then there's also the like learn these skills so that one day I could pass them on to others who may need them to, you know, fend off our government three decades or whatever or three three generations down the road. I want to bleep that part. I don't know. I said that really carefully. We can say tyrannical government real loud. Real loud. Also chocolate. I like chocolate, too. I liked this one, but it's not a question, but it has to be said anyways. This is a friend of mine, Justin Montgomery. No question today. Just want you to trigger Ron into rant about dancing posing routine we saw this weekend. I didn't see it. Oh, damn. I did see that. Who was that? Oh, I I just lost his name. He's really well known. Um can't think of his name off the top of my head, but um Huh. What What' you think, Ron? Well, on the list of things I can't do, that's one of them. Yeah. Um I I'm not AI'm a bodybuilding purist. I'm not a fan of dancing posing routines. Hey, more power to you. If you place well and kick some ass and look awesome, that's cool. I know there's lots of guys out there that throw a little bit of, you know, whatever they're doing. But that was pretty full-on dance, wasn't it? Yeah. You know what I thought of when I when I saw the question and I saw this? There's no rule about having fun is I think when you've been in the sport a long time and you and you consider yourself a purist, you think one way, but I try to step outside of that. Yeah. I try that guy. Well, I think of Don Cherry and how much he hated Alex Ovuchetkin, right? Because he would score a goal and you know, I mean, he now has the record for most goals in a career and he would make a big deal out of it. And Don Cher was a just a purist of Bible. Like you put your hand in the air, that's it. Anything beyond that is ridiculous. You're making a scene and all this. And I loved it because uh when he was interviewed about it, he goes, "Oh, I'm really worried about what he has." Like he just mocked him pretty much. He's like, "I don't give a shit." And I I I I assume and hope and I know because I I know of the person. I can't think of his name, but he doesn't give a [\h__\h] either. And I love that. So, to me, uh, here's what I would say. He's all over the internet with a phenomenal physique, right? And everyone's talking about him. So, I'm going to say good for you. And don't worry everybody, you're never going to see me attempt to do that. I'd break a hip. Yeah. Um, no dancing unless you're King Kamali. That's what Stefan said. Oh, but then you got to go then you could go back further in time. Man, when King His original routines used to blow my mind. Oh, yeah. Um, here's a good one for you. Uh, Ron, we can all vote in, but I always put it to Ron. Cybex hack versus Atlantic pendulum squat. If you had to pick one only it and then it finally says, if you had both, would you program both in one day, one leg day, or split them up? If I could only have one. Yeah. So, it's like two questions in one. I'd probably pick the hack squat to be honest. Yeah, I would. It doesn't hold enough weight. I think the I think the hack squad is just a little more versatile. The the pendulum is generally a quad dominant. Um yeah, and it's a dynamically loaded. It's already dynamically loaded because of the pendulum arc. Sure. So it's you got the easy easier at the bottom, hardest at the top. Right. The hack squat isn't like that. You can make it like that with bands, right? So, you can do more to the strength curve of a hack squat. You can't reverse the strength curve on a pendulum because you can't band it the like you can't you have to do it from the ceiling. Yeah. Well, then that just dels the bottom even more. Like it just makes it more exaggerated, right? Yeah. And you put a band on a pendulum, it just exaggerates the strength curve even more. You can't flip the strength curve. So, I think a hack squat's a little more dynamic and when you move your feet around on a hack, it makes a bigger difference than on a pendulum. Um, so that's my thinking, right? You could also do calves on a hack squat some sometimes if it's the right type of hack. I don't I think it's a cybex. I've been doing calves on mine and on the I the reason I say so the Cybex hack is still my favorite hack. Yeah, it's a good one without question. But the only thing is is even now it has to be at the end of a workout because it can only hold so many plates, right? That's just too strong. Problems. But I love that thing. I don't have those. Yeah. Um I And would I program them both in the same workout? Well, I mean, what are your options? Are you Is that all you have in your gym? Like there's nothing wrong with two quad focused exercises in a row. Are you training quads? Yeah. Then I always split them though because I have so many options. Yeah. like I consider them to be like kind of like in the same category I would choose one from and then I would you know typically with I would add a pressing movement and then maybe a single leg movement like you know that's how I think right but I did the uh the sideex squat press the other day or yesterday Ron I haven't done it forever since my health is back to normal with my knee we did that with a uh six count negative and a two count in the hole that was horrific well one of the greatest inventions of my life right Too many seconds. It's too many seconds per rep there. It's a lot. When you're when you're like finishing that last 4 in of the push, you your whole leg feels like it's going to pop. So, that's going to be left in the program for sure. Scott, did you say we had some for the Patreon? I don't want to miss those as I just rant along here. We had a couple on YouTube. Um, one of them was, "Why aren't people using vegetables?" I don't know if that's true, but he said, "Is there a reason why more bodybuilders aren't using more vegetables just to make their food taste good? I never see anything other than peppers, pickles, onions, salsa, etc. Um that are negligible in calories, taste bombs, and tons of nutrients. Uh um so let's see. He doesn't want to make diet easier, dieting easier, but it's playing mind games with him. Uh that all the top foods literally eat meat and plain rice. Maybe he says at least put garlic powder on it or something and olive oil. I don't think I think people are specifying what they put on their food. I'll tell you this, in the offseason I didn't do a lot of greens because I was too freaking full and I didn't want to eat anymore. So, I took my greens before bed in my powder form. Yep. And dealt with them. But in prep, I had greens with every meal. Yeah. And I love them because for me, feeling full or at least satisfied made me feel like I had more energy than being starving. So, I just don't think it gets talked about as much. Like, I mean, I just did a video um where I talked about an offseason diet and I didn't have a single green in it because back then I didn't. I would just do greens before bed. So, I don't think it's as uncommon as he thinks. Yeah. What What do you think, Ron? A lot of green vegetables and variety. No, I ate green beans. Yeah, variety. Worry about it. I was a green beans guy. It was the only vegetable that I could tolerate easily with a flat stomach and no gas. I found that out like eventually that green beans were just like nothing. I could eat them. My stomach was just completely fine. Um I don't eat broccoli. horrible stomach disaster from broccoli. I can't believe I put up with it for as long as I did when I was started my preps. Yeah. I don't even think it's AI think that there's like a school of thought that cruciferous vegetables are actually like we're not supposed to eat them. Like there's some people that say like they're not good for our digestion. Like they have a bunch of vitamins and nutrients in them, but that doesn't mean we're supposed to be eating them, right? And they cause a lot of gas. Like same with like cabbages and stuff caused like so much distress with some people. Brussels sprouts, stuff like that. I don't eat any of that. I think that's just waste my time. I would never eat that stuff. Green beans though. I think I think I got the rant going, Justin. We're good. I think we I think we nailed it. I like I like asparagus, too. My stomach handles asparagus really well. I can eat like a quite a large serving of steamed asparagus with like a if I was prepping. Yeah. And just flat stomach, no gas. Zucchini is great for me. Same reason can knock the hell out of zucchini. Yeah, I've got a million dollars. Now, one other thing here I really need to make sure we got on the show here today. This is for until the end. One of our listeners, if you check this out, this is a portrait of the three of us. Best I've ever looked. I love he said he took two minutes on each of us. Six minutes in total. And mine is the most accurate actually. Well, I asked the audience. I said, "Hey, who do you guys think is most accurate?" And we heard, "Uh, Dusty, but he needs a mutant hat." And then somebody else said, "Uh, that is Dusty." Somebody else said, "Dusty is pretty good, lol." And then we had a Ron. We had a Scott, but mostly we had a Dusty. And then also somebody said he watches too many episode. He watched too many episodes of uh Beas and Butad. So they are kind of like Beas and Butad. They are a little bit like Yeah. Yeah. Well, first off, I I don't wear a hat if I'm in my smart mode of the glasses cuz my bill is always got smart mode on. Smart mode. I have smart mode off today. Yeah. Um and the reason that mine's the most accurate is because I'm the easiest one to make look bland because that's how I look in real life. Um Ron, I don't know. He He only gave you like 37 seconds, I'm pretty sure. Yeah. My beard's very crooked and one side of my face looks swollen like I got punched in the jaw. Plus, your hat is perfectly even on both sides. And we all know you don't know how to curve a bill, right? But like, he got your neck right, Ron. He got the like there's some general basic things. He like overdid your neck. Borderline looking like a penis and then underdid mine by a little bit. You know what I mean? Yeah. Just a little. It started with a penis. It started with that. They just filled it in. Yeah. That's Ray, by the way. Thank you, Ray, for the the artwork. He said he's just watching the show. He started drawing this out. Took him six minutes. Two on each of us. Yeah. Well, I'm very happy. Very happy to see the viewer engagement. God, this is awesome. Oh, man. Uh, let's see. I wanted to get that simple one. There's lots of good ones. Yeah, they they really did nail like great ones, but there was one simple one. Oh, there we go. I want to get this. Um, just both you guys can answer. Best ways to build a lower and mid chest in the offseason as a beginner. Uh, so as a beginner, I don't want you to worry about lower and midchest. There it is. I want you to just think of your pecs. They all attach, they all come, you know, the same tendon on your humorris, both heads, and then the one head comes across, attaches to your collar bone, and the other head comes across, attaches to your sternum. Yep. They both work together off the same tendon of your humorris. do a bunch of exercises that draw the arm across the body in various planes of motion because it's a fan-shaped muscle. All of the fibers are firing together at all times. There is no absolute isolation and um work on nice full ranges of motion and your chest will grow and as it grows it will fill in. There is no like inner pec. There is no like total isolation. I remember when I used to believe that. Yeah. Yeah. I do these for the inner upper pec. Yeah. I mean there is like you know we got some incline bias and certain angles with certain things and certain fly movements and stuff. But for the most part if you're a beginner you just got to grow your chest. Get your dumbbell press up. Get your incline dumbbell press up. Get your machine plate loaded presses up. Get strong on all that stuff. Standardize your ranges of motion. blah blah blah. I think the only thing I would add to that is as a beginner, something I didn't learn until a couple years into bodybuilding was where my elbows were determined how much I could feel my chest, right? Okay. Yeah. You know, I naturally wanted my elbows to like flare way out to the side and then I just slowly moved them in and was like, "Oh, same thing. I I used to take a really wide grip on all my barbell pressing." Yeah. And then I started watching big guys and I was like, "Oh, they're not doing that other than Marcus Rule." And then I just kind of worked it in. And again, feel like pay attention to what you feel uh when you make these adjustments and find the sweet spot for you because there's going to be plenty of times in your career since you're new to this where someone tells you what you're doing is wrong, but you know that you feel it right, so you just go, "Oh, thanks for the advice." And you ignore them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's an important skill to be able to just ignore people that are giving you good advice. I did it all the time. Worked out perfectly. I still think of uh Branch Warren when I think of that elbows in uh bench press position, Dusty. Yeah. You know, his elbows were real tight, you know. I feel like you'd say that too. You got to have your elbows in real tight. That sounded very good, Scott. That was well done. That was that was AI worked on it. That That was a damn near aceto right there. Well done. I don't know about that. I I'll add one thing too. Is he asking because I I my initial thought was exactly what you said, Ron. And but is he asking does he have some fat in the lower pec? Is he thinking to himself, I need to reshape this lower pec because I'm starting to get like a boob look? And that would come down to body fat and you know what I'm saying? I'd throw that in there as an addition. Yeah. All right. This one was good. Um but I want to just get your guys' take on it, too. Uh, he says, "Uh, Dusty's talked about feeling the devil's breath on the back of his neck during prep. Would love to hear him elaborate on this for the next generation of competitors." You guys understand what I meant with that. Um, what do you feel and what do you what's something that you thought were good signs of uh of a tough point in prep? Good signs? Yeah. Just something that you felt that you that you would drive towards instead of away from. Um, so I would get to the point where in my forearm and in my quads and in my calves and my triceps, I could feel at some point I'd get lean enough where I felt like I could feel muscles sliding against each other. Yeah. It was like a weird sensation that I wouldn't have normally. Like I'd I'd flex my forearm um extender and the muscles in the back felt like they're sliding like somehow on each other. It's a weird feeling. And then in my quad, I would like flex my quad and move my quad around. It felt like the muscles were kind of sliding against each other. It was a weird sensation. Same thing in my calf. If I really flex my calf, I could feel it like moving. Yeah. And my tricep. I don't know exactly how to describe it, but it only happened when I got really lean and I started like, you know, seeing striations everywhere and stuff. I could feel things moving. That was a different sensation. And whenever that happened, I'd be like, "Oh, here we go. I'm going to be hard as nails." Like, you know, that feel that just like knowing I'm like, "Okay, I know I know that I've done a lot of like getting lean." Yeah. You know, where are you, Scott? I did a lot of my later cardio, especially outside walking my dog. And uh while I'm walking along, I just kind of always just put my hands kind of on my hips and I just as I was doing that, I'd feel my lower back, you know, and I kind of just feel how much density is left there. And at a certain point, you realize like there's just absolutely nothing left to hold on to. Yeah. And that was always a a good feeling to me that and you know you sit down on a chair and your butt just hurts because there's no cushioning left. Oh yeah. Taking a dump. Yeah. Been there. Feet my feet would hurt because there was just not as much cushioning on them either. And to me that was always like those those little things that were like yeah you know this is exactly what I want. Give me more of this. I think the there's two things that came to mind to me. I want to be paralyzed on the toilet. more than that, please. Was um I remember the first time I got really peeled and I went to step up a step and I could feel which muscles were responsible for that part of the step. Yeah. I was like, "Oh, that's what the hamstring does before the quad does this." You know? Um, but as far as the question goes, I think the big thing that I would suggest to competitors is that point and if you're in shape, we've all been there where you're smoked, you're just exhausted, you're in the gym, your workouts, you know, maybe just starting, maybe halfway through, and you know, like you're out of gas. I used to like to remind myself that that is the point where I could separate myself from everyone else. Yeah. because I was like, "Okay, I'm tired now." And I I mean, I'm just pushing with everything I have and there's not much here. And I would just say, "Okay, this is your chance. This is the time where the other guy maybe leaves a rep on the table, maybe gets off the cardio one minute early." And those little mind games really helped me a ton to just stay locked in. And I think they're also the reason why there was never a show I did where the result affected how I felt about the prep. H because I always knew I did everything I could and then whatever happened happened. So there I never in my career, including when I won, uh was the the success of the prep connected to the placing because it was just like, well, if you can beat this, then good for you because there's nothing else I could have done, you know? And and I think that's the thing I'd like to send down to the next level, the next group of competitors because that's the part I see people really disappointed with placings and and even maybe saying the the prep was a waste after their placing and I'm like Thursday night you were happy Saturday evening you're not. I don't understand. The prep was over Thursday night. Yeah. Right. Nothing changed other than you got your trophy of placing or no trophy at all. Like who gives a [\h__\h] Yeah. So, that's my two cents on that one. Bon, do we want uh another one or two or we good? No, let's let's do another one. I got something to throw in really quick, too. Go ahead. It's not a question, just a comment. Guys, thank you to everybody who's been following the channel, supporting us, commenting, all that stuff, Patreon, and everything. I was looking at the statistics. In the last uh 90 days, the channel as a whole has gotten 87.3,000 views. Wow. We're like working toward a lot of lot of views, you know. I think that's incredible. 87.3,000. That's uh 180.2,000 watch hours. 180.2,000 2,000 hours the shows have been watched in the last 90 days. Just think of the cities they could have created. Hey, maybe they're creating cities on their headphones, you know, listening to us. Civilizations they could have driving them towards their I always been really productive with my podcast and learning stuff, you know, having company from Ron talking to Matt Minrod while I'm doing my job. You know, I like you still get a lot done. Good times. No, very very amazing. It's cool. We're doing some cool stuff. those numbers. You know, this is a fun one. With the exception of Ronnie and Phil, what bodybuilder do you think would have a high level of success amongst all the different decades of bodybuilding? Aside from Ronnie and Phil, it's funny that he isolated those two because those two Yeah, they aren't the ones that I would have said would Yeah. I'm gonna throw one in easy real quick. Dexter Jackson. Yeah. So, yeah, like a like a 200 Well, you want to say 2008? I'll say any Dexter Jackson. Yeah. Dexter when he was in ninth at the Olympia would have been a a menace in all levels. The 2015 Dexter or whatever year he won the Arnold there and there's been some Yeah, he would still still do. And it's against all decades, right? So, like Yeah. What would happen if you put Ronnie in the 70s? Would they mark him down? They wouldn't know what to do with that. Say you're from the future. Yeah. Like that's that's just to to he has what they even do in stato. You know what did they start revoling? Oh, we have to change the criteria. We have to make it so that you can't be like that, you know? I don't know. They couldn't There were people that couldn't handle Dorian when Dorian came out. They said that that's when bodybuilding ended. So imagine Ronnie if they couldn't handle Dorian, you know, that's early Dorian. That's not like Dorian like Yeah. Yeah. You know that 93 Dorian that won the Olympia with without doing any call outs really. That that was a unique physique that would probably I don't know, man. That's See, I'm just wondering what they do what they do with them in the 70s. Yeah. Like they'd have like a panic attack and I have so many just like lining up in my head. This is fun. What would happen to bodybuilding after they've seen that? Yeah. Yeah. Most people quit. Just weird. I don't know. That's a good That's interesting. It's just interesting to think. It is. Dexter, you know, um maybe I don't know. Do you think like pick a good Kevin Levrone? Pick Victor Mart 07 Victor. How about we take a How about we take a current Terrence Ruffin and drop him in with open back in the 70s. How about we see what that looks like? You know what I mean? Yeah. Put him next to Yeah. Well, you know what I was going to say that somebody who popped in my head and I I assume half the audience won't know who this is. Dennis Newman. Oh, yeah. Crazy. Dennis Newman because if he stayed healthy, slightly understated because he had just turned pro, so he wasn't like massive yet, but just like perfect. But if he said if he had kept going absurd and he was put together, he'd be making bumstead money. Wrong time. Yeah. I remember I was at the USA's one year and this guy came up and was talking to me. He's like, "Oh, I see your brand everywhere." Cuz I was at the mutant booth. Okay. Yeah. He's like, "Oh, yeah. It's cool." Blah, blah, blah. I see your videos. And I'm like, "Oh, okay." And I'm talking to him for a while and then he like chats and someone comes up and goes, "Hey, Dennis. how's it going? He's like, "Good." And they're talking and then I'm staring. I talked to the guy for like 20 minutes and then I'm like, "Oh my god, it's Dennis Newman." And I go, "Wait, are you Dennis Newman?" And he's like, "Yeah." And I'm like, I was like, "Dude, like I was a [\h__\h] kid when you were in the mags." Like this mindboggling, you know? And he was like, "Oh, thanks." He was just like totally cool. Like like, you know, no big deal. But I was funny. Yeah. Yeah. I He's He was always to me like what bodybuilding should be and I could never be. He was awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We've got a Lee Priest in the comments from Finn. Oh, that'd be good. We also have a a big Ramy fully loaded with oil. I don't know that I don't know that people who weren't watching, and I'm not saying that guy didn't, but people who weren't watching, I don't think most people realize that Lee Priest is one of the biggest freaks of all time. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like I I just don't know if you weren't in it to see him in front of you if you could understand just how cartoonish he was. Yeah. One of the most seen cartoon animated looking physiques of all time. And there's hardly anything that really does him justice. But when you see him in person in his posing trunks, pumped up Yeah. ready to go on stage, you're just like, "What a It's like you let some kid draw a superhero." Yeah. Just draw it out of just draw some crazy superhero like massive arms, huge legs, tiny waist, like just the craziest calves that look like everyone else's quads. Yeah. Just and just the proportions were so ridiculous. Make the head real small. I saw a thing run um someone asked Jay Cutler a question along the lines of like who's the freakiest bodybuilder and he said Yeah. He's like people don't get it because he was a real small guy. Yeah. So they just don't get it. But it was such a crazy look. Yeah. And it never went away. Like when when uh I knew Lee when he lived in Scottsdale for a short bit and I mean he was done and he was ridiculous. Well, another thing you come in like a t-shirt and you see his forearms. Yeah. They're out of just blown out and he's like, "Hey, another crazy thing about Lee was how like small he was as a frame. His frame." Yeah. Right. So when you watched him train, like all the barbells were way longer than he was tall. Yeah. So everything looked kind of funny. Like when you see him repping 315 on the incline, it's like from far away it looks like there's a kid repping 315 cuz you know, you just think of how like, you know, his feet barely touch the floor. He's got the seat all the way up like, you know what I mean? And you see a guy see him squatting. Like there was a famous picture of him on the wall of Archer's gym in Australia where I used to train. There was a picture of him squatting six plates and apparently he was only like 18 or 19 in the photo. Wow. Right. And he's squatting six plates. He's got some guy spotting them. He's screaming. He's got a, you know, flannel shirt on. It's the most hardcore photo of Lee as a kid. Right. Yeah. And the bar is way longer than he is tall. So, it was like a funny photo. It's just I always loved watching him train because it was flawless execution and every single rep was identical. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean just perfect, you know. So want to see if we had anything to close out with. Here's a quick one just because I like the question. Overrated, underrated, dips, either assisted or not. I think they're underrated. I think dips are a great exercise. I think that we got to take clues from other things we see in athletes. And if you look at male gymnasts who don't do tricep extensions, who don't do incline presses, um, a lot of them, like not all, but a lot of these guys have these great little physiques. They got little shelves on their pecs. Yeah. They got horseshoe triceps. Some of their triceps are striated. Like they've seen guys working the pommel horse before. Oh yeah. And their horseshoes are striated. And you know, Yeah. You know, you see those Olympic athletes that have like 5% body fat and you're like, you're like stage lean. Yeah. Right. I've seen like American gymnasts doing pommel horse work with strided horseshoes and like pecs that are completely strided. And also, there's something about the dip. It's like a survival move. Like that's a move that you would really do in real life if you were like living in nature. Like you'd have to get getting out of the pool. you have to, you know, like I was always jealous of people that were good at chin-ups because I was never good at them. But like a dip is another like body weight. It's a real functional move. Like if you can't, like Johnny Jackson said, "What's the big deal? You're just moving your body through the air, right?" So like I remember when I used to do dips with two plates chained around my waist and I weighed 320. That's a lot of weight. And I remember my arms and me were at their very biggest. Yeah. When I was doing those, I just think dips are a great like upper body mass building kind of everything. Your lats even get hit because they got to stabilize your scapula and they contract to a certain degree. So, it's like a very good strength move. Dips should make a comeback. I agree. They're drastically underrated. I still use them every other chest workout. I found actually early in my career when my shoulder first started becoming an issue that doing them helped my shoulder really. Yeah. Right. Because stretching out my pecs differently and stuff and I mean that movement awesome and I still don't know there there's few movements that I think are better. Plus it's just great. You either get up or you don't. Yeah. It's like it's the deadlift of pecs. Yeah. And let's not forget that Branch Warren started an epidemic of photooot madness when he put chains around his neck for the dips for that one spread. Yeah. Yeah. In that magazine and then that he did it at a video shoot and it it was just something Branch did at Metroflex and then next thing you knew we were doing it in Northern Canada put chains around our neck. That's why we need to get somebody that's popular now to do dips again because that'll bring it back. It would dips. It would because Bumstead get Bumstead doing dips on his Instagram and all of a sudd Oh, there'd be a lot of chains. I'd invest in chains at that point. Have to get a bunch of dip bars installed at my gym. Guys got dips and mustaches. Here we go. Yeah. Wait, most guys that dip have mustaches. Wait, wrong dip. Anyway, um, last question, and this is specifically for Scott. The people want to know. Okay. Is Scott rinsing his rice? Somebody. And if so, has you noticed a difference? Yeah, somebody asked that on YouTube as well. So, do you guys was that here that we talked about that with Kuba? Okay. Yes. So, we talked about rinsing rice with Kuba and there is a whole thing there's like in uh Asia like with sushi making, they want this like perfectly cleaned rice. And I'll tell you what, so with my rice pot because so I don't think I told you Dusty, I have a rice maker. Uh I know Dr. Marv gave it to me. He literally was like, "Hey, what's your address?" And I I don't want people to send me stuff. You know what I mean? He's like, "No, I really want to say thank you to you." I was like, "Okay, so here's my dress." And two days later, uh, little rice cooker showed up. I use it non-stop. By the way, Marv, if you're watching right now, thank you again very much. But, uh, so I started rinsing my rice and I rinsed it a number of times. I could see like it's real cloudy at first, right? Yeah. And then the next time it's less cloudy, less cloudy. I probably, my water bill probably went up. I'm using so much water to rinse rice. Dusty, I have seen absolutely zero benefit or difference. I may still rinse it once just because Here's what I think now. I get it. It's dirty. I get it. That's okay. The the the heat will burn any, you know, I I think that there is something there like rice rubbing against each other. There's going to be some like basically what what do they call that? um friction. Yeah. Yeah. But the the remaining rice like anyway, I think washing that off for some people may be beneficial. For me, I honestly saw no change in digestion, no ta change in anything. So, I have always rinsed my rice. Me, too. I was taught to rinse my rice. Never. Nobody ever taught me. I'm from Detroit. You just fill you fill the pot, swirl it around, stir stir it real quick in there, dump it out, and then and then you measure your water and you kind of assume there's already kind of a cup left in the bottom. So, you kind of like, you know, you get it right. You get your system worked out. But my mom's argument was, well, there's, you know, factory dust and, you know, there might be little threads from the big bag that it's in because we used to buy like those woven like I buy the woven bags like I buy the big bags, right? And so she's like, you never know. You might have little thread in there or a human hair like it comes from a factory. Do you rinse your rinse, guys? You rinse your oatmeal. I don't need oats. Well, there's a good answer. No, I don't rinse my oats. Scott, thank you for throwing a wrench in the logic. Thank you for ruining my mother's wonderful lesson that she taught me. Where was she on that one? You're forgetting that this is actually based in racism because rice comes from overseas and oats come domestically. So, she's not afraid. Naturally cleaner. She's naturally cleaner. She's definitely fighting them. It's from America. It's from America. It's fine. It's like Yeah. Yeah. I've seen no difference. But it does uh I have I would suggest the Diet Coke. I'm less happy. I've wasted time. I spent more money on water. Spent more money on water. Only Diet Coke is the thing you go back to. Ron's still not smoking weed and you're still rinsing rice. Um, so yeah, the reality I may do one rinse and that's about it. But, you know, that's the big one, you know. Yeah. Yeah, it is. I do like five. Okay. But I'm also, everyone knows a little. I was I'm like waiting. I'm like, really? Do Yesterday I had one cuz it was the bottom of the bag. Yeah. Oh, yeah. So, I mean, I'm rinsing. I'm like, I really do want to actually cook this at some point, right? And and I I think I also believe that if I don't rinse it, it'll cook a bit differently and then it won't be the way I want it. Like the texture might be a little different and then it won't be the way I want. Tanya, you're eating 40 grams at a time. Why not? Why bother? I agree. Yeah, that's like a bite. That hurts my feelings, right? I feel bad. You're shredded though, I'm sure. Yeah. If or she's on her way to be, you know. Yeah. There you go. 40 grams of written in my routine. I think I'd probably just be like, "Ah, [\h__\h] it. Just not eat it." Oh, she also doesn't gum. She doesn't wash her meat before she cooks it either. I definitely wash the meat unless it's like a ground meat because you can't really do that too easily. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. You guys wash your meat. You don't wash like chicken. I wash my meat every day, Dusty. Well, yeah, that that's important. But anyways, I can wash it as fast as I want to. I'm not taking it where I could have. I'm just skipping. Totally. That was way over my head. That's the first thing I thought. Many times as I want. You should wash your meat, dusty. Ron's meat is always washed. Very on top of that. Very. You never know. You got to be prepared. That's right. You know, I'm going to get the t-shirt set back up. By the way, uh, do we need an accurately rated t-shirt? Accurately rated. H, accurately rated or just accurately rated the picture of Scott from that underneath it. Accurately rated. That would be that's what we need. Okay, that's perfect. All right, I think we can close it out with the accurately rated Scott. Yeah, that was good. Ron's been more accurately rated than me lately if you guys didn't know this. In my old age, I'm drifting to the middle of the road, gentlemen. Starting to find the peace in everything. You know, I've been trying to find the line my whole life. I didn't even know it's there. No, no, no, no. Okay. Well, appreciate everyone's time on the chat. Um, glad to see everyone that was watching the show with us and uh experiencing the live recording. I really like the live recording, Scott. Yeah, they're fun. It's a laid-back live recording on the live channel. So, James just came in with great information for Halls. Thank you, sir. Sorry. Just got to throw that out there. I had the best oysters of my life from Halls once, James. Oh, yeah. Oh, damn. Fun fact. There you go. Lobster and mac and cheese. Run it. There you go. Love it. A good man. I didn't. That's a good man right there. Yeah. Okay. Um, did I have anything else to say? I don't think so. No, just don't do the outro like I did the intro. It ruined my life. Go ahead. Okay. Well, just thanks everyone that was watching. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. There we go. Remember, immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Use Dusty or Big Ron as your codes. Save your money. Get ridiculously fast delivery. Like you're going to get blown away. People message me all the time. They're like, "I just ordered this." Then like an hour later, a drone flew in my window and dropped it. Yeah. Yeah. Don't make this awkward. Just accept it. Just accept it. That's how we roll. Okay. So, immutant.com. Very fast delivery. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. The Mindfk. We'd all get a lot more done. And the Mindfk, man, it's awesome. Although we don't get it in Canada, but um I Yeah, I found one. I found one and it's awesome over and over again. Okay, thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding.