 for someone who's trying to get everything they can of their genetics is learning to train harder and harder and harder and harder and resetting that bar for effort is one tool that will could allow you to exploit growth that's not yet been had. If you keep on training and your training is just doesn't get any harder, your effort level will have to reach a new level in order to create the stimulus that evokes the adaptation that leads to new growth that lets you then train with heavier weights. What's up guys welcome back to muscle minds with Scott Stevenson. we william Yeah, yeah, it's been an interesting year. It was the year of the snake in the Chinese. Okay. Yeah, and the snake sheds its skin. Oh, so like a rebirth almost. Yeah, sort of exactly. That's one way to interpret it. And the next year, I believe, is the year of the horse. And that's when you start. You sort of ride into the next phase, potentially, of your life. So it fits where I am personally really, really well. Okay. Yeah. Well, I look forward to seeing where you ride and how that goes. Yeah, and the RV. Who knows where the hell I'm going to be? I don't know either. It's funny. I've had some people inquire about going overseas to do some seminars. And I really, really would love to do that. I just got to make sure my dogs are taken care of. And long story short, I've kind of explained, like, I don't know where I'm going to be. And I'm not going to leave my dogs in my RV for a dog sitter to watch in some town where I don't know anybody. So I'm like, I won't have a home for the next foreseeable months. Yeah. When I explain that, it's not like it doesn't really register with people because it's, I think I'm going to just have to say I'm doing van life. And then. Then they'll get it. Then they'll get it. Someone mentioned that to me. Just say you're doing van life and that'll cover the bases. All right. Well, listen, we had a topic that now this is something that I recently talked about with Skip and Andrew on Blood, Sweat and Gears. Oh, you did already. Okay. Yeah. It hasn't come out yet, but it may by the time everybody is seeing this. And I'm very interested to hear your thoughts on this. And this is one of the things too. One of the reasons I wanted to put the channel together and do what we do is this programming affords us the opportunity to get a lot of varied perspectives from people who are coming from different places. You know, the Skip is coming from his own experience that we, you know, we all know as, as being a fan of Skip, as is Andrew, as is Dave Crosland, Ron, Dusty, you, me. We all have our own perspectives. And I do think it's finding good to be able to listen to a channel where you can go in depth and hear all about one person's ideas. But I never subscribe to just listening to one person. I want to take what, what you say and what Ron says. If I'm trying to figure something out, what Dave says, weigh it all out, you know, kind of weigh it against my own experiences. And then that's how I can kind of educate myself versus just being spoon fed. You know what I mean? So today I wanted to hear what you thought about this one, Scott, and we'll get a more well-rounded perspective. And here's what he said. He said, all right. All right. I've noticed that you guys have used the term intensity a lot. He said, it's been mentioned in all the podcasts. It's frequently mentioned that most people either don't know how to or choose not to. And, and put this, and this puts major limits, excuse me, choose not to train with adequate intensity. And this puts major limits on their progress. What is intensity and how is it related, if at all, to the amount of load, reps, failure that people aim for? So that's, that's, that's not a can of worms. It's a barrel of worms. That's a little, there's a ton. There's so much to unpack. Yeah. And you, and I don't have any idea what the answer, I mean, I could guess maybe, but I don't know what you and Andrew and Skip had to say about it. But, so I'm going to this kind of line, but, so it's interesting, this question, I liked it because it fits so well with the podcast that will have probably come out by the time people hear this. When I went into the idea of sandbagging and effort in the context of the dose response for volume of training versus muscle hypertrophy. Yeah. Which, which a recent paper from Pell and et al. It's actually, it's actually came out in a formal peer review journal, like just a couple of weeks ago. The data I had, it's the same data, same graphs and everything was from a non-peer review journal. But it was the kind of the talk of the talent. It suggests that you could go up to 40 sets, 42 sets a week for a given muscle group. And I was thinking to myself like, well, how, how, with how much intensity can you train and still get away with doing 30, 35, 40? There's one, one particular study where they did 45 sets for, for the legs, for the quads. Just, just legs alone, just quads alone. Yeah. It was like, they're doing like five times, three times a week, five sets of squats, five sets of leg press, five sets of knee extension to failure with like a two minutes rest in between and three minutes between exercises. Something like that. Yeah. And it's like, how, how can that happen? Like I would just, I would probably get rhabdo if I tried to do that. Yeah. I would be really, really hurting. So anyway, that's, that's the previous podcast, but it goes into this idea of what intensity is. And I thought to myself, there's gotta be some internal governor. It's all in the previous podcast, but intensity. And in this context, what the bros in the gym and the trenches refer to is perception of effort. How hard are you training? Exercise scientists will use the word intensity and they mean the percentage of a, of a maximal effort in terms of the load that you're moving. So percent one rep max or percent maximal voluntary contraction. So we set the intensity for the sets at 80% of one repetition maximum. That's simply the load. You could do four reps with an 80% of one rep maximum and have a very low rating of perceived exertion because you were four reps in reserve. So intensity in the subjective sense, in terms of perceived effort could be low, even though that's a relatively high intensity in the exercise science sense as a scientific term. So that's why the scientists will refer to RPE or reps in reserve is a way to estimate the psychological perception of how difficult a set is. And that the person refers to how many repetitions they could do if they were to go to failure, how many reps are left before they would have a failure repetition. So, and you can do rating of perceived exertion for a set. And this is in the previous presentation from the, we'll be out by the time this one comes out, the last sort of seminar that I gave or for an entire session. And the interesting thing there, if you haven't watched that, if you want to go into the details, then yeah, definitely dig in on that. I kind of dive deep. But what seems to happen is people top out at some point when volume is reached a certain point, adding more volume doesn't increase rating of perceived exertion. People go to about somewhere between a seven and an eight on a zero to 10 scale. And that's where they will just stay. And you keep adding sets to a workout, compare eight sets with 15 sets with 20. The rating of perceived exertion doesn't get higher. And that suggests that there's this governor, there's this psychological break that plays a role. And there is some variability there for sure. I would love to see someone try to tease apart, you know, what's going on either just with questionnaires in terms of what would drive some people, why some people would perceive effort to be higher than others. And this is, I didn't even go into this in the last talk, but I mentioned it previously. There are ways, for instance, that you can measure muscle activation. And there's even, and it's, in my opinion, it's a flawed methodology where you can determine with electrophysiologically with EMG what the percentage of a one rep max or percent muscle activation.  activation, which is. Unfortunately, I can go into this if you want to, it's the methodology isn't really predictive of what happens in terms of strength gains. So for instance, one study use this methodology and the suggestion was at the beginning of with older folks in their 60s, 65 roughly, I think maybe was the average, that they could maximally activate their quads. And we know, especially with older folks who maybe haven't, who are untrained, haven't worked out, done anything incredibly exertional for decades, you put them into training, and they can very quickly double their strength, six, eight weeks. There's a study with, that Maria Fiaterroni put out in 1990, where they just did knee extension, I think they like, it was more than a 200% increase in knee extension strength in eight weeks. So when they can't when they can'ts when they can'ts when they can't when they can't when they can't when they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they can't they This would be interesting to study, I think, scientifically is use some of the available methodology or even create something new to say, you know, how could you tell if someone's sandbagging? Or is there a point during, for instance, a workout where you get to eight sets and you measure EMG? And you could do this deceptively, too, with people. You could have the electrodes on there and not actually be making any measurements. So they're not aware that they're being watched. You don't have this hawthorn effect where people try harder because they know the observers are saying, are you trying hard enough? We can see we've got an EMG. We're looking at your muscles here. And then when they go beyond eight sets and 10 sets and 15 sets and you do these longer workouts and they still have the same rating of perceived exertion, is that because they're sandbagging? And maybe you could pick up on this phenomenon with EMG and that the EMG tends to taper downward in some way, shape or form or the various things. You can glean different things from an EMG signal. But can you pick up on, yeah, the reason why they're perceiving the effort in a 20 set versus an eight set workout as being the same is because they don't really activate as much as they do. And their perceived exertion is a function of the accumulation of psychological perception of fatigue from the previous sets. And then when they get to set 15, they're really not trying that hard. But their rating perceived exertion is not a matter of being the same. It's not because the muscle's being activated the same. The muscle's not actually activated as much. The intensity of effort is being perceived because they've already done 14 sets before they got there. Yeah. So you could physiologically evaluate activation in this way to try to tease apart, like, how can it be that eight sets are perceived as hard as 10, 20 sets when they're taken to failure? What's going on there? Something is being registered in the brain that may be disjointed from what's actually happening neurophysiologically in terms of activating the muscle that's there. So everyone has their own sense of intensity, right? Some people – and I really think this is just my experience is that it's related to your experiences in terms of having trained hard. People who come from an athletic background where they maybe have trained and competed at a very high level and they pick up resistance exercise. They start training or pick up bodybuilding. Those people who've got 10 years of experience in middle distance running, let's say, running the 400 meters. Okay. Brutal. They may have done some training, but they're never really – that is painful. They come into the gym and train hard. They will actually put forth physiologically what might be more effort, and they have more intensity. They're able to basically bring themselves to a higher effort because of their experience. So what they perceive to be effortful is different than what someone who's never done anything truly effortful. Yeah. So everyone has their own standards. So I've been rambling there for a while. I'm looking at my notes here. I don't want to interrupt you. If you have some thoughts you want to interject. No. No. I'm just listening to you. I'm listening to you on this. The main thing I had added to the conversation with Skip and Andrew was that intensity is something I've – honestly, it's something that I've wanted to be able to nail down in the podcasts since the start. And I realized early on, like, it's hard to explain. One of the cues or one of the tips that Andrew threw out there I thought was really good is in order to kind of check your own intensity is train with somebody who's more – who has – who is a hard trainer, who trains harder than you. So, you know, that's a – I think I thought that was a great take-home tip because, you know, we had gotten asked recently, you know, Scott, you know, you said something along the lines of, like, that you learned to train harder. That that was one of the elements of what I had done to grow my back. I had learned to train more intense. And he said, so were you not going to failure before? Is that what – is that the difference? Right. Like, so, no, I trained for all of my life, really, you know, and trained hard for 15 years, competed in – you know, competed for nearly a decade. I definitely knew how to train to failure, but I had leveled it up. How do you explain that? You know, how do you explain the difference of taking it from hard training to taking it to really hard training? I think that idea of training with somebody else, that's a great tip. And just the thought of that time. Time is another factor that I look back at training in my parents' basement as a kid and, oh, my God, did I feel like I was training intense back then. But five years later, my definition of an intense workout was different. And five years after that, it was different. And guess what? Like, even now, years, decades into training, my definition has still become redefined, you know? It's experiential. It's experiential. You're talking about your personal experience just over the years. You have those days where you find another gear. And that raises your bar. Yeah. You go and you train with some absolute animal. Like, holy shit, I'm glad I survived that, right? Yeah. Then you have a new perspective. And that shifts what you perceive. I've told this story a million times, but I'll tell it. And I actually have some data here that I found. It's a component of this perceived exertion. And I'm no exercise psychologist, so I have to say that up front. But one aspect of that is pain, right? It's a painful experience. There's some difficulty there. And we did lots of pain measurements related to muscle soreness when I was in grad school. And we had this one guy who was like a complete outlier, knew that we'd run through the ringer, created some muscle damage. His strength went way down, knew that because we're all testing the same. I just knew that it happened because I was privy to it. And then so I wasn't blinded as to what his strength measured. We were running through like 100 people through the ringer in this large-scale study. And I knew because I've been testing everyone that they're giving me values on this visual analog scale, like between 0 and 100, when I would press on a certain point with a certain amount of pressure, pressure algometry it's called. And they gave me values of like 40 or 50, like midway up the scale someplace. And he's like, it doesn't hurt. It doesn't hurt, right? You remember the story? Oh, yeah. Absolutely, I do. Yeah, so people have heard it a million times. I'll get through it. But anyway. Some people haven't, though, I bet. Yeah, they haven't. So I'm like, I said, no pain at all. You don't perceive anything about this too painful. And I think he literally, he scratched the scale as close. It was like a two. It was as close to zero as he could get it, right? I wasn't trying to convince him to give me a pain rating, but he's like, yeah, I guess maybe. I asked him, and he had had open heart surgery like two or three times when he was a kid. They cut through your rib cage. And then once he said he was trying to jump this wrought iron fence with his BMX bike, and he did make it, and he flipped over, and he got impaled by one of the fence posts, and he was lying there for like an hour on the verge of death until someone found him. That would redefine what your pain level is. Totally redefine his pain level. And, you know, I've talked to people. This happens. People talk about, you know, they're in pain. Like people, I know many people that have all sorts of painful experiences, and I had had a conversation. I'm like, yeah, I'm going to look around a little and see what I can find, because the way I visualize a 10 on a 0 to 10 pain scale is 10 is the most, and I started out of speech, the most amount of pain you can absolutely imagine. And then when you're saying Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus  meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate, meditate The subjective scale is not often verbally anchored in a way that gives people the full range. So you twisted your ankle. What happened if someone chopped your foot off at the shin? Would that be just a nine and a half? Or what if we chopped both ankles, both legs off? Is that like where do you go from a nine? There's not much room there between a nine and a ten. So I found a very interesting study. Let's see the. This the go to the first page here and I find the authors. It was by Burish at Al B.U.R.I.S.H. From 2020 cluster headache is one of the most intensely painful human conditions result from the international cluster headache questionnaire. So people can look that up. It was open access. You can download it for free. And these were they had like sixteen hundred people who had experienced cluster headaches. So cluster headaches are one sided headache. Usually it's somewhere around the eye. You you your eye will kind of like close halfway and you oftentimes tear up. Super, super painful. And many of these subjects had also had very, very painful things as well. But all of them had cluster headaches. And among those other painful things were labor pain, pancreatitis, gunshot wounds, migraine attacks, fibromyalgia, bone fractures, myocardial infarction. So bone fracture. Right. Or migraine. Someone comes in, they have a migraine. They're like, so how bad was it? Oh, it was a 10 out of 10. That's the most pain they've ever experienced. Yeah. In this study, all these people having had cluster headaches, the average pain rating of a cluster headache attack was 9.7. OK. Of those sixteen hundred people, 663 of them had also had migraines. They rated a migraine as a 5.4. Oh, God. Right. 300 of them had had labor pain. Labor was a 7.2 compared to a 9.7 for a cluster headache. Yeah. Right. So I think if you ask people, I'd have to do the research. But you look through these things like stab wound is only a 4.9. These, like, 87 have been stabbed. Arthritis is a 4. It's generic. Large organ biopsy, like a biopsy from your liver. I've heard that's really, really painful. That's only a 4.4. OK. Because they've experienced a cluster headache, which is a 9.7. Yeah. Some of them weren't even, like, and they weren't even, some of them even put it as a 10. Not everyone said it was a 10. Yeah. So they, they went through the, I mean, what happens if you have a cluster headache and then someone chops your arm off? Well, that gets you from a 9 to a 9.5. There's always some room above. So back to our topic. I just thought that was absolutely fascinating. If the most, if you've only trained so hard, that's your bar, that's your measuring stick for what effort is, what intensity of effort means for you. Until you experience higher intensity of effort, because, and this relates back to our last talk, we've got a central governor that can be influenced by all these things, like competition, like hypnosis, like placebo effects, like the Hawthorne effect, the Rosenthal effects. There's things that can make you train harder that, that, that make you realize, ah, there's still some room for even greater efforts. And then you reset. So it's that guy who's been seeking out the maniacs and training with him and trained with all the crazy, who's done a hundred set workouts and those sorts of things. You've experienced that. And then you, you completely reset your bar. After 20 years of bodybuilding experience, plus coaching countless athletes, I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to dry wall paste consistency. So when I say that I trust True Nutrition, I mean it. In fact, True Nutrition is one of the few companies that I trust and trust in this industry. Well, it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep. 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot. Yeah, I see you out there. What makes True Nutrition different? You get to pick your base. I'm a big fan of the way ISO. You get to pick your flavor. I like the cookie butter lately. You can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts. It's basically like the supplement version of Qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning. Oh my God, my insides are on fire. Plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies. You can cut off the middleman and go straight to the source. No proprietary blend nonsense. They're third-party tested and in-house tested as well. There's no guessing games. It's literally just gains in a bag. If you want protein you can trust, go to truenutrition.com and use our code THINK. After 20 years of bodybuilding, coaching, and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes, believe me when I say this is the good stuff. That goes to me that ties into the conversations we've had about reps and reserve and the benefit of finding failure before you can actually figure out what your reps and reserve are. Otherwise, you know, and I've worked out with people who haven't had that level of experience that we're talking about to the point where you've not only defined intensity, but then redefined it and redefined it again. How long, Scott, let me ask you this. How many years of training to failure, of high-intensity training do you think it takes to really say that you've got it on average? If you were to guess, you know, obviously this is not something you could really put a figure on, but take your average person, and I know that you've just demonstrated that everybody has their own experiences that they're coming into with it, but how many years of hard training do you think it really takes to be able to say, okay, so he's probably going to continue redefining it, but he has an idea of what intense training means? That's a very, it's kind of a nebulous question in a way, because some people, like, I think nearly everyone has another gear available. If they just absolutely, I mean, here's the thing, we're thinking about the confines of how we train. So if you're talking about executing a set, now we can get into what failure is, right? Okay. Executing a set with a strong mind-muscle connection where when you subjectively sense that you're no longer hitting the target muscle and you're starting to, although it may not be biomechanically apparent, but you can sense that auxiliary muscles are being brought in, that could be your failure point, right? Or it could be that you're no longer able to move the weight from point A to point B, right? Yeah. You could make a set more effortful, potentially, if you train like, I mentioned him a couple times. Have you seen the Andrei Smyov? He was with Larry, he did some videos with Larry Wheels recently. The Russian dude. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't watch it, but I know what you're talking about. He's an absolute monster. And there's a video of him doing back training where he's doing, he weighs over, he weighs like 330 or something like that, 340. Yeah. And he's doing pull-ups, they're partial range of motion. But he just does like 20 set partial range. He did like, I don't know, 20 or 30 sets of, he just did pull-ups for like four or five hours, right? And when he goes to where the reps are no longer going to be executable with a full range of motion, and he just does partials. And he literally takes that set to the point where there's, you know, he's going to hurt himself because he's going to fall down or he's going to fall on the ground. And he keeps going until, so there's another level of effort there that is beyond what you could really experience in a regular set. I'll give you a personal example. So this is a long time ago. Remember the program Cybergenics? Of course, yeah. Did you ever do it? No. No, I didn't. No. Hardest training I've ever done. Absolutely mind-bogglingly extreme. Like here's how you would start off leg training. It was a Ronnie Coleman split, push-pull legs twice a week. You start off with squats, and you pick a weight you can get six to eight reps with until you go to concentric failure, and then your partner helps you up until you go to eccentric failure. Oh, God. Super frigging dangerous, but I would do it on a hack squat nowadays, but that's how you do it, right? Yeah. Then you drop down, do a drop set to a weight you can get like six or eight reps with again, positive and negative. So you're doing forced reps until you can no longer control the weight. You drop it down again, six to eight reps, positive, negative failure. And then you step away, and you do jumps, squats with body weight until you can no longer jump.  Bi tambéms, tambémC tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms tambéms também like a quadruple drop set like that, two sets, and then hamstrings. I think you do like five quadruple drop sets for calves. It's a three-hour workout. It's absolutely utterly insane. So you do all the work. You have like 11 triple drop sets for back, something like that. Like it's all just crazy. The diets, it's just the hardest thing I've ever done as far as body. I think it's maybe the hardest thing I've ever done to do it. Get up in the morning. You train fasted. The first three days of the week, you're basically on like 1,000 calories a day. One of the times I did, I was working. I had a physical labor job out in the heat in the sun in the summer in Illinois where it's humid. And then Thursday, you come in after basically 3,000 calories over three days and do that same leg workout before you then eat. And then the next three days, you eat up. So it's a calorie cycling thing. Anyway, I went through eight weeks of that. They say eight weeks. You don't want to go any longer. You might overtrain possibly. And I remember I did that. And then I went to the gym. And I think we took a few days off. And I remember one time like I went and I think it was like an incline. I'm like I'm going to start with chest because everything was fresh. And I just did a set of incline barbell. And I had my training part was there with me. And then I went to the chest. I said go to concentric failure. I went to concentric failure. And then we racked it. It's like I hadn't even done anything. Yeah. It was like, what was that? That wasn't art at all. It was to failure. And RP was like two. Yeah. Because I'm used to doing quadruple drop sets. Yeah. And quadruple or triple drop, whatever is it, quadruple drop sets until you can no longer stand up with your body weight. And then you do four straps with body weight. It's just absolutely insane. Yeah. I would go to the hospital if I tried to do that, right? Oh, yeah. So that reset for me long ago. That was in my 20s. I think maybe I was 19 when I first did it or 19. And then I did the program two times, three times. Did you really? Twice. At least twice. Yeah. It was just crazy. Did you get progress? Like what kind of progress did you get out of it? I wish I had documented all of that, you know? Yeah. Do you remember thinking back, though? Like you must have liked it, you know, if you did it, you went back and did it again. Yeah. It was just so freaking hard. And oh, yeah, definitely looked much better. I don't know. The loads went up. I definitely got stronger on everything. We tried to progress stuff. Yeah. I remember like it was the best I'd ever looked at that time. It was like it was like. I remember there are some funny stories. Like once it was just I was my training partner, Gary Harpole. He's no, he's not listening. But one of my. Yeah. It was up here. We went to. We went to a like in Kansas City. I think this meeting everyone was. It was a fraternity thing. He was going to go to that school and they had this meeting and his sister was in the in the sister sorority of that fraternity. So he got invited to go to this pool party. Right. We had a few beers. We hadn't been drinking anything. We had like three or four beers. These are all college guys with beer bellies, you know, but there's some beautiful women there. And we got the beer goggles on and we're like because we're really in really good shape. You do that shit for eight weeks. There is no way you're not having a massive transformation. We're thinking we're the shit. And I never forget this. It was so funny. It's like, hey, let's go get our bathing suits on so we can go get in the pool and show off. Right. Yeah. And that's going to do anything. You know how guys of that age would think. And we went down to like the laundry room or something so we could put our suits on. And we're like we're all we're drunk, you know, a few beers. And we're like, hey, let's get a pump. We got down like face to face and started doing push ups. And we were just laughing our asses off because we realized how ridiculous it was, you know, trying to get a pump while we're drunk. But but we were in phenomenal shape, like just didn't just follow the diet. The diet was a strict semi. It was a contest diet. It was kind of a pseudo skip load, but there was a prolonged skip load. Minimal calories for the first three days. You eat it for the next three days. Sunday was the rest day. OK, do that for anyway. The point going back to our topic was that was just way over the top. You could definitely have scaled that back to one third the volume. Right. Right. And probably made better progress. Absolutely. But just having experienced that reset my bar for what hard training is. And I mean, literally that it's hard to know because I was still young then. But it definitely I would say having those eight weeks. Probably if you could make this kind of an equivalency would be equivalent to 20 years of just training in a more reasonable manner, but really, really hard. Because it was like going to concentration camp. It was like it was like, you know, it was like being imprisoned on the chain gang and being on the brink of starvation. Like and you have to walk. You're like you're like Conan in Conan the Barbarian. He's pushing the wheel, you know, for all those years. That's all he did. All day long. Exertion. Everything else is a breeze. Nothing comes close to that. Right. Yeah. So. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. So the intensity thing, it's it's it's all it's in our heads and it's but you can only train as hard as you can train. Right. Right. That one of the thing in there that we've that was worth kind of maybe exploring is, you know, that your reps in reserve, you might be leaving something on the table if you just train with reps in reserve. And you look at Ronnie, Jay, you look at, you know, many pros you don't see. Very rarely do you see someone who actually goes to failure. Yeah. Where they have a failure rep where there's a rep that they try and they don't they don't get it. So people are at zero reps in reserve or maybe one or two. And you can definitely make progress that way. Sure. In one of the studies, one of the NSL study from the previous, they actually correlated MR, RPE and muscle growth measures. And the correlations were non-meaningful. So how hard you were. They tried. They looked at the RPEs across the groups. And part of that was part of that was because the RPEs were the same regardless of the volume. But the RPEs did not correlate with muscle growth. So it didn't suggest that those who perceive they were training harder made more progress. And that sort of points says to me, like genetics rule the roost. As long as you're training with some semblance of of of effort of meant of perceived exertion. If you have good genetics, you can be the guy who trains reasonably hard. And then if you're someone like Ronnie who trains really hard and can recover like him, then you're going to have absolutely phenomenal, world class, one of a kind progress. But, you know, could Ronnie have gotten better if he had a failure rep at the end of each of those sets? I don't know. But I think to some degree for someone who's trying to get everything they can of their genetics, if they learning how to just like you, you're you're the example that we've already mentioned. Is training to learning to train harder and harder and resetting that bar for effort is one tool that will could allow you to exploit growth that's not yet been had. Yeah, because if you keep on training and your training is just doesn't get any harder. And you're just waiting for the you're just you're just waiting for the weights to go up by on their own, which they will when you when you're a beginner, you go in like every time you go. And it's like, oh, I'm stronger than the last time your body's adapting. But at some point, your effort level will have to reach a new level in order to create the stimulus that evokes the adaptation that leads to new growth that lets you then train with heavier weights. And you have to continue to apply that effortful training. And if you're an advanced guy, just like Jordan found when he tried this out, if you try to drop it back to two reps in reserve on your sets when you've been training to failure for so long, those sets are no longer stimulating those you don't get your effective reps. Your effective time under tension is is potentially Zippo for for many, many people unless they learn how to train closer to failure and train harder. So so that's kind of important. So if if someone's not making any progress and you go see somebody like they go in the train with someone who's an animal and like, holy shit, that was the hardest training session I've ever had. Then that tells you, well, one thing that could be lacking in your list of ingredients for making more progress is learning how to train harder. It's not just the exercise selection. There's all the other things could play a role, but learning to train harder. And, you know, I had last thing I had this thought. I do all these conversations.  dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive dive you've done it, right? You've put the, you've hit the nail down. You don't need to keep pounding a nail if it's already in all the way. But one thing, this is just experientially that I think can train someone neuro psychologically neurologically is, is to create more effortful sets or allow some, a little bit within reason without being injurious, some laxity in your execution near the end of a set where you're like, all right, I don't know if I'm going to get this rep, but I'm going to give it my damn best effort. And maybe you do get a little sloppy. I would always log book that as a plus zero to note that I tried to get some more reps and they don't count because they were, they were poorly because I cheated basically. But in the course of someone over their training, over their training time or their training career, having periods where you start off, let's say a training cycle and you're like, Mike, I've got good form here. I'm going to train to failure. And then I want to keep on beating the log book. It's, it's not the worst strategy. Depends on the person, how well they can execute this to allow the log book to move up, to get used to holding those heavier loads, to get used to pushing into oblivion at the end of those sets. And then when you, when you take a break, a deload or what have you, and then come back, then reset your form. So imagine someone, they progress from 200 pounds to 240 pounds or 220 pounds with perfect form. Right. Yeah. And then someone else progresses from 200 pounds to 240 pounds, but their form gets a little sloppy. Okay. And then they come back and reset their form. I wouldn't be surprised if they can maybe do 225 pounds, maybe a little bit more because they've handled the heavier loads. There's your effects psychologically there. As long as you have some form standard, you can even use a timer that works really well for some things where you, you keep your rep tempo the same. It keeps you, it keeps you in doing what you're supposed to do in terms of execution. But that having that laxity, and as long as you come back to good form and the laxity isn't such as you hurt yourself and your back bows the wrong direction, you blow out a disc or something silly. I, that trains this ability to put forth maximal effort and it resets your bar in terms of RPE that then can be translated into the scenario where you're training with really good form. And someone who's, who's moving like, you know, doing like 600 pound hack squats or, you know, heavy, heavy loads. Then the, the, the structures, the, the soft tissue structures and the, they're just not meant you should, didn't be, shouldn't be doing sloppy squats with six plates on a side, right? That's not a good idea. But if you're moving your way up, not the squats are probably a bad, bad choice with which to do this. But, um, once you then have trained that in route to getting strong and teaching yourself how to have those maximal all out efforts, um, then you've got that in your pocket. Then you've got that gear. You've got that ability to have a high level of effort. You've reset your bar. And then when you do execute your sets with really, really good form, stricter form, that's when you potentially turn that, what rep that would have been add and get it to the rep that you grind through and you learn how to grind. Yeah. Yeah. So one, just one thing. I mean, not that you could also do the same thing by just focusing on, you know, I, this set is all about grinding through that last rep. So you, you detrain yourself. Um, cause a lot of people get to that rep and it gets difficult and they, they just stop. Right. They're like, they kind of chicken out or like, I don't know what to do. Yeah. This is why I think people perform better when they have a spotter. Hmm. Yep. Yeah. They know the spotters got their back. They'll get more reps. You say, how many times, Scott, have you been in the gym? And like, someone says, you know, Hey, you know, you see someone, they're, they're benching heavier and that you're like, um, Hey, if you need a spot, let me know. And five minutes later, a guy comes over as a guy, use a spot. I'm looking to get like four reps. Right. And he gets six. Oh yeah. Yeah. That's cause you're there. He doesn't even know you from Adam. It's not like you're like, you know, you're Joe Weider, you know, hovering above him. Like, are you, are you bad-ass or not? It's just because you're, he's, you're there. So you eliminate some of those inhibitory factors in terms of performance. So anyway, I rambled a lot there, but, but that was the thought about potentially like learning how to focus on your effort in those last reps. Cause that's what can be trained. And that's, I think one thing that can be improved for some people in order to make progress when they start to become stuck is they just have a perceived rating of the rating of research, a rating of perceived exertion. Isn't as high as it could be just like pain rating. Unless you've had cluster headaches, maybe you don't really know what a nine out of 10 is. Cause you haven't been there yet. So figure out a way to get there. Training with a bad-ass focusing on that out in your effort level. Personally, the other things I've mentioned. So I think there's something, something to say for being a little bit sloppy now and again, as long as you know what you're doing and you're safe about it, or even having, having a partner there, you know, that that'll do the same thing. A partner spotting you. Yeah. What would perceive as being unstable positions that that's tapping in to the inhibitions that lie within that central governor that keep you from doing what you're potentially capable of. And I think there are some people that are just more predisposed to, to, to, to seek that out. Yeah. Yeah. There's that. Yeah. And I noticed that like people, people who maybe have lived a harder life, even like maybe not experienced the physical pain, but the emotional pain, you know, people who have been through a lot that they're the people who are like, yeah, those are usually the people that I have to tell, you know, like we need to dial you back versus we need to, you know, cause there are those people that like, there are people that you have to push harder as a coach. And then there are people that you have to tell them to pull back. You know, there's, there's, there's both of those types of people. And then, Hey, just one other, one other thing I'll mention. I remembered, um, one person who had a technique to teach intensity that I thought was novel was, um, Matt Jansen. And I remember interviewing him and talking to him about it. And he had said that he would put somebody on an exercise bike and he would have them. If you've never, if you've never lifted intensely, you can still safely push to your absolute max on an exercise bike and that you're not going to injure yourself. It's not like I'm asking you to go to, you know, failure on squats. We're going to go to failure on that first. It's a way that you could then translate that to other exercises. Might've been a wind gate test. Did he mention that? Does that ring a bell? I can't remember the specifics. It had been years since we talked about it, but, but he would have them though, push to their absolute max on an exercise bike. So not even with resist, you know, not even with weight training. Yeah. There's a, there's a, um, measure of, um, it's a, it's a power measurement for the lower body called the wind gate test, um, from the wind gate Institute from Israel, something like that. And it's 30 seconds. They set the tension on the bike really high based on your body weight. And it's, and you just go. And like when you start off, it's things barely moving and you can't get super high rotations. Cause there's so much resistance. And then by the last 10 seconds, it's like, every rep is just all out effort. And you're just brutalized. Yeah. Um, and actually they used to do it, the downtown powerhouse. I've seen this other places too, but they would, they offered free wind gate testing. They would do wind gate testing to bring in, recruit people as subjects. And. wow. Yeah. You do three wind gates. It's just 90 seconds of exercise. Right. Yeah. That's, that could be it. You're going home. You need a nap. Like you're screwed. Um, so yeah, that, that will, that's just, it's, it's that experiential thing. You just gather the experiences. This isn't as hard as, you know, um, some other thing I've done, which was much, much harder. So that's, that's a really good way to do it. If people have an opportunity to go do a wind gate, it, it lasts just about as long as maybe a set of 10 or 12 on a squats. Okay. But it's all out from the very beginning. Right. Maxwell effort. And you're just totally grinding at the end. And it would be like, um, you can do these on a hack squat. Like this is a real, this is one of my, this is my favorite way to do drop sets. Did this train with Derek and I, um, we're training together with Jared. Um, and, uh, I think, I don't know if John is what we're doing with John Meadows programs. I don't know if he.  expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition expedition And they pull the plate off. So you basically you stay in that four or five reps in reserve range the entire time. And they just pull the plates off as you fatigue. So you reach multiple failure points. And that's absolutely brutal. That's the way you don't want to do too many of those because it'll be just too much. But that's that's a really it's different than doing drop sets where you get out of the machine and you change the weight or you take a break. There's something categorically different about an intermittent set in that way or a drop set where there's a pause. And you'll see you'll see people when they're being trained by someone and they're going to do it. Let's say doing a drop set on an extension. Right. And they do the first set. They go to failure and then that, you know, they get their legs out of the way so they can change the pin. And then they and then they'll they'll people a pause. But just take like two seconds. And maybe it's resetting brain chemistry. Something's happened. But just that two seconds and they go and they start again. But they're just there's a psychological reset of some sort, I think, that goes on there. And and you clear some lactate and the pain goes away and those sorts of things. That's totally different than doing a set like this where you you have continuous repetitions and you you just keep going and you keep going. You keep driving, you keep driving. And it like that windgate test with maybe what Matt was having people do. It creates a totally different sense of pushing through those fatiguing repetitions. I like that. I wish I could do, you know, do those by myself. You can do mechanical drop sets that way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what those what those are. Right. I'm not sure. Oh, yeah. OK. You can do this like a simple one, a simple one. There's multiple ways you can do this with exercises. You basically have two exercises and one has greater mechanical advantage than the other. So you start off with the disadvantaged one. So you might might start off with dumbbell flies and you get the whatever. Let's say you can do presses with the hundreds or something like that. And 80 use 60s, 65s for the flies. You go to failure until you hit failure. And then you just you do a mechanic, basically mechanical drop set. And then you go to presses. So you pre fatigue the pack. And now the triceps come in to basically allow you to do four straps of a sort. Yeah. And allow you to keep moving the weight. And you keep, of course, your focus on the pack as the as the prime mover. So, yeah, you can you could do these like camelback squats or it's not squats, camelback rows. Those are done on a seated row machine. And you you let you have to have good hamstring flexibility otherwise. But you let your lower back actually flex. So it's kind of like a camelback. And you're you're literally your upper body is as parallel to the floor as you can. And you pick whatever handle you're going to use. And you do basically kind of a seat. It's more like a pull down, but you're actually on a row machine. And so you're you're bent over like this. And you're doing this. Right. OK. And then you and then you go to failure. You're here. And then when you go to failure, you can sit up and then go to a row. Oh, OK. And that would be the kind of mechanical mechanical drop set. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You could do it with tricep press downs. We got to get you some oil for your chair, Scott. I know. It's on. It's sliding on the ground. Oh, that's what it is. But you can do tricep press downs with strict form and then allow yourself to go to, you know, the kind of the more dip form like that to finish off. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, you could there's tons of ways you can do it. Do various ways you can do it with curls. Someone mentioned this. I thought it was on one of the like you can do curls. I saw this somewhere recently. I can't remember where, but up against the wall. So it has to be super strict. You get no body sway whatsoever. And then when you go to failure, you just step away from the wall and you keep going. Easy enough. So there's they're all kind of in the in the cluster of mechanical drop sets. That'd be such an easy one to do, too. I feel like anybody who's listening at home could do the mechanical drop set with that, that especially that like the the the curl today or this week when they train arms. It could be something fun and different to try. Yeah. Yeah, you could. I mean, there's there's tons. Just get creative with it. But she's basically just combining two exercises using the same implement. You just change your form or change the exercise technically. And but the key there is, is you don't stop, put the weight down. You just use the same weight and you just let the mechanics of the exercise allow you to continue past the point of failure with the original form, original exercise. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That makes total sense. I'm thinking of how I've employed that over the years, too. That's where you see me kind of like thinking looking off. That's I'm thinking of like where I've intuitively kind of done that before. Mm hmm. I've even done a thing like with curls where. I you can do curls, supine curls where you're like you've got overhead cable and you're going here. Right. And you keep doing that until you fail. And then when you can no longer you fail here, then you just allow your hands to come down and you do this and you just change the angle and you can start almost make it into kind of a inverted pull down, so to speak, or inverted row with that machine. So you can and you can that's the way you do a pump set on on fortitude training. If you want. OK. You go totally strict here and you just you're not even using you're not cheating the weight. You just start changing the mechanics by changing your elbow position. You're not strictly here. You're here. And that changes the loading curve across the the joint, the elbow joint. And eventually, you know, your range of motion will change a little bit. But you can you can make you can milk a set out like that and take it, you know, 10 reps initially and add 30 reps just by slowly moving into what is essentially a different exercise. It never really works your lats, even though you might be using them and just annihilate the biceps. Yeah. So it's a great time saver if you're like, oh, I had to get things done. You know, you see you. You just you basically can create as as much effective time under tension as you want based on how much you want to push through. But like that's the that's the point. Like go back to kind of what we're talking about is like a strict reps, continuous reps and you fail and you're done. Well, then, OK, there's only so much perceived effort you can have. So let's say you do those first 10 and then you're here like, that's all I got. And then you go here and you and you bang out some more. Well, you've got an RPE that you basically can't get any more effort. But if you if you change the mechanics and continue in that near failure point of effort. Well, then that set can be in that you can be doing near maximal effort repetitions for, you know, twice as long as what it would have been otherwise. So, you know, that's that's that's the we're talking normally about on almost all of this research involves people just doing straight sets like that. Hmm. Right. And bodybuilders do all sorts of intensification techniques. Yeah. That add that raise the bar in terms of RPE and add the effective time under tension. And so there's there's a whole like this word is somewhat microscopic what's being seen. And understandably, you have to have controlled conditions. Sure. You can't just let some people, you know, do as many partials as they want. Other people don't. And you just you don't have a condition. You got to be unified. Yeah, it's got to be some. Exactly. So anyway. Yeah. As far as the effort goes, you know, you just do your best. And some people just will never want to train really, really hard. Yeah. Like like we said, was the son, you know, when he was training with with Jordan. Right. And he's like, you know, that's not how he wants to train. If he had if that's always his only option, he just wouldn't bodybuild. I don't think. Yeah. So you got to find what matches your psychology. If you if you have screws loose in your knucklehead, then that could be an avenue for you. But otherwise, more volume could do it, too. If your volume is too low. Right. Yeah. Other things which would open up other cans of worms that you could. Yeah. You can. Other worms that we've talked about on the show. Exactly. Yeah. Finding exercises that work for you. There's all sorts of other other tips and tricks that you come up with. But effort is like one of the main levers. I think that's available to literally all of us. That question you asked was really good. Yeah. Right. Like, how long does it take to be like doing as far as intensity of effort? It's like I think the thing actually I can now we've pondered this a little bit more. The thing that could maybe be telling as to whether you sort of arrived is whether you get to the point where you're like, OK, I know I can train hard. Now I have to be very careful to meter the number of sets and how often I apply that that tool. I've got a blowtorch here. And I'm going to go.  I've got a, I got a, I got a, I got a, I got a, I got a, I got a plasma cutter here and I can cut through, I don't care how thick the steel is, I'm going through. Well, you know, if I'm trying to light a candle, I might not need. Yeah. Well, you know, if I'm trying to light a candle, I might not need. Yeah. I might not need. Yeah. I might, the cable might not exist if I just swipe at it with my plasma cutter, but it's nice to have a plasma cutter for when you, for when you, for when you need it for the big job. So, you know, in the, the, the devil's in the dose, so to speak. Yeah. Yeah. Or the, the, the, the dose makes the poison is another saying, but the devil's in the dose is what I, what I really mean here is like, it's really, that's the detail. How much of that dose. So to know that you can, you can have them, you have a potent, you can't really be much more potent in your dose. Uh, then, then you're there. But if you have the sense, like the person who asked this question might, was like, ah, I think there might be something lacking there. Then there's the indication that there probably is. I wouldn't, I wouldn't override his. His judgment on that. If he thinks he could train harder than I would bet he probably could. I can't remember how many years it was that, um, it was, uh, Hunter Labrada on one of the interviews. We, the, the most recent time we had him on the show this year, he was saying that you should train to failure for, it was either like five or seven years before you should even consider doing reps in reserve. It takes going to failure. I think he said it was more than five. I think he said seven, like seven years of training to failure. I'd, I'd say, I'd say at least if I were to put a number on it, I'd say at least five years to learn how to train intensely. And even then, that doesn't mean you're done. That just means that like now you've arrived to, yes, you're training intensely, but also understand that for the next 15 years, you're still going to continue rediscovering what intensity means. Yeah. I mean, like, here's the thing, like, I wouldn't argue with that number, like, but I think there's, there's a standard deviation there too. And it depends on where you do this. So let's say you go to the snap fitness. Yeah. In the small town where you grew up and there's really, everyone's just kind of a lifestyle trainer. No one's really doing anything. And you're by far the hardest and you train to failure, you know, and you do everything you can there. And then, and you're, let's say you're doing powerlifting there, you know, cause you've got a barbell and you can squat deadlift and bench. And then. If they let you. Yeah. You have to go in at night so no one can see you and block the camera. Um, and then you decide we're going to go train at Louie Simmons gym. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. Maybe that, maybe everybody who trained at like West side barbell would be like, you know, eight months or two years. You know what I mean? That ups the ante. Like, I don't, I think everyone who's been there, like that, that is a proving ground, right? Yeah. People just never come back. Yeah. I think that's probably may happen. I don't know the details. I've listened to them. A few stories from, from West side. And, um, I saw the movie too, but like those, that's animalistic. Yeah. You know, that's a different level of failure training. Right. And you can see too, like you could fake it to some degree. Um, you know, you can fake effort and failure and, you know, in bar speed, like this is one thing I didn't mention early, but, um, relative effort is sometimes a lot of studies have been looking at bar velocity. Now as a gauge of that. So the, you should see this normal progression. If you look at how muscle fatigues and isolation, you can take muscle, you do this with human muscle and, um, stimulated with electric stimulation. You watch, there's sort of a, you know, a typical downsloping, um, force production that occurs as a muscle fatigues. It doesn't go, go, go. And also just drop off a cliff. Right. Yeah. And if someone's doing their repetitions and they go and they go and go and you're thinking, okay, you got two or three more and all of a sudden they just stop. Well, that's not a normal physiological progression of fatigue. And, but they can fake that. Sure. Um, and you know, even the people aren't consciously faking it, I think there's this, the unconscious central governor is limiting us. Um, and so, you know, there's the old saying like, you know, train like there's a gun to your head. Right. You know, you'll train differently. If someone said, you know, your whole family has been taken ransom and you need to do a hundred sets and there must no one in this room of 10 judges must think that any of those sets did not go to absolute utter failure. Right. If you love your family, you would literally, you probably would put yourself in the hospital. Your kid would probably fail from the rabble. Right. It would be really, really bad. Um, so there's always an extra level. But that's obviously, you don't need to train that way. That's way too much volume, et cetera, et cetera. But there's always, there's for almost all of us, there's something left there. Yeah. And it's a beautiful thing to explore if that's, if that, you know, is your, that floats your boat. But for most people, it's a very unnatural act. Like I like to say. Yeah. Punish themselves in that way. Well, listen, that was all the time we had. We did that intensity thing for, uh, over an hour. So we appreciate everybody tuning in. Um, and, uh, I do see people had thrown in some various different off topic questions and various different gear questions and stuff. Uh, sorry, we couldn't get to all of that. Um, but we appreciate everybody being here on the live stream. And of course, uh, you know, for everybody who is watching this, if you would like to please hit the like button, share, subscribe, comment, all that stuff. We appreciate it. And definitely hit the hype button. If you've got the hype button available today. Oh yeah. Go to, uh, by obbcoach.com to get Scott's book. Check out supplementsource.ca. If you're in Canada and truenutrition.com, use our code think for everybody in the U S for all your basic bodybuilding supplements. Thank you to everybody from Patreon guys. We'll, uh, be back with another episode of muscle minds in 2026. And, uh, yeah, that's good. That's it. Thanks Scott. We appreciate you as always, man. Yeah. Thanks for being there guys. Thank you.