 Well, watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering watering that it's going to instantly raise your liver values, that it's going to, you know, blow your inflammation up. What's up guys. Welcome back to blood, sweat and gear with coaches, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McNally skips, not with us today, guys, but he will be back. Of course, all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We've got some Patreon stuff today. We're brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there to get some additional savings. Plus get all your basic bodybuilding supplements that you would about anyway, high quality protein powder, intra-workout, creatine, the whole works support a company that we believe in support a company that supports us. Also, we're brought to you by supplement source.ca for our Canadians guys. They have great deals that change week to week. So if you like good deals and you're looking for some bodybuilding supplements and you happen to live in Canada, you can definitely check them out. Supplement source.ca Andrew first show of the year. What's up, man? Yeah, man. It's, it's, you know, I feel like 2025 flew by. And I mean, I feel like I opened my eyes and it was January 1, 2024. And here we are, you know, already done through all the national shows, already had the holidays, everything. It's like time goes faster when you get older. That is a fact. Oh yeah, dude. Yeah. I, I could, I could, I could go into that. I, myself, I, I totally agree with you that I definitely guys take advantage of each day, especially for like our younger listeners out there. You know what I mean? It's like, yeah. I mean, I know. Yeah. Do you remember when you're like a kid, like let's say high school and you're like, man, I just can't wait to be a college kid or I can't wait to be that age, you know, where you can do everything. Like you can, you can drive, you can buy anything you want, alcohol, cigarettes, whatever you want. You got all the rights and responsibility. Yeah. You got all the rights and responsibilities of a real adult. Right. Yeah. And then you get there and then you realize, Oh wait, you have all the rights and responsibilities of a real adult, such as taxes and figuring out where you're going to live and all that kind of stuff. All that mortgages, taxes, you know, and then you just keep getting older and older and the clock just feels like it's spinning faster and faster. Like I remember being a high school kid and being like, man, this year has taken forever, you know? And now I'm like, it's already June. It's already September. It's already December. Like, where did the year go? You know? So, so yeah, definitely take advantage when you're younger. We're happy to be here guys. Another great year ahead of us. I'm looking forward to seeing what everybody can do. And I do have a kind of like a start of the year question for you, Andrew. Let's shoot. You know, so here's the thing, man. And I have a couple of things. I have another question. I want to reflect on 2025 with you leading into 26, but I also want to ask you this. So, you know, we answer a lot of listener questions. We focus on like a lot of PED stuff and we kind of have a lot of fun, like talking about the drugs, you know, like, like, Oh, what about like, how does trend work? And what do you think about this much trend and all that stuff? Um, and so I thought we'd have a little fun with this one. So out of all the conversations we've had over the year, what would you say has been like the big standout compound of 2025? And do you think that's going to be like, like what are going in and leading into 26? What's going to be like the big thing? Cause I already kind of have one on my mind that I think is like the big thing for 26, but I want to see if we're on the same page with it. I think we will be. I mean, I got, I got a couple of different flows going through my mind right now and, and addressing, you know, because we dealt with a big deficiency on DHT compounds in 2025. So people had to, you know, I don't think anyone got on stage without the right amount of DHTs that they needed. I think people stocked up or nobody went without, you know, nobody went without, but it wasn't like this. You could just call your guy or email your guy and order bottles of something and just have them sitting on the shelf. Right. Everyone kind of guarded their supply a little bit more. It wasn't, it wasn't like that year at the Olympia where everybody was natural. You know what I mean? It wasn't like that. No, it wasn't that bad. So I think, I mean, this is kind of, kind of the same topic, but I think the theme was guarding your DHTs this year or. Okay. Yeah. No longer was it like, Hey bro, can I get a bottle of, do you have an extra bottle of Primo? You just knew not to ask your buddy. I feel like clients knew not to ask other clients. Maybe they would have asked for a favor in the past. They knew, no, like I'm grabbing my own stuff. Don't ask me for any of mine. I won't ask you for any of yours. So I think that was kind of a theme of the year. You just kind of get that. You knew you couldn't tell a client when they were getting low on something of that nature. Hey, call my other client and see if he's got. You need to think ahead. You had to plan ahead big time. Um, I think those that were in the know made sure that they stocked up enough if they were competing this year and they wanted to make sure they had them. Um, I think this was also the year where the industry as a whole went a lot lower with the trenbolone. In terms of. You think just this year, huh? Um, I'm going to, well, I'm saying a lot of us were doing it in years past and kind of graduated our thinking from, let's say 2021, 22, you know, okay, let's go a little less. Let's go a little less. But I feel like the industry as a whole accepted. Oh, I don't need to run a hundred to 200 milligrams of trend a day. Like, let me start out with 25 to 50 and just see where I go from there. And maybe we just stayed there until the day of the show. And knowing, yeah, having that confidence of being like, I can always go up next week if I wanted to. Yeah. So, because one thing I'll say this, I'm hearing a lot less people complaining about side effects of trendsomnia or, you know, those types of issues that maybe we, like questions that we would deal with in the past of how do I mitigate this issue? Good point. I think it definitely trickled down from the competitors to people that are your, you know, your, your, your, your weekend warrior trainer guys that are, you know, not never going to want to get on stage, but want to build a great quality physique and use some of the same compounds. I do think it trickled down and in an effective sense, a very effective way. Yeah. Yeah. I would say that. I would say that I saw it. And, and like, I'll, I'll take a little bit of credit on calling this Dave and I, and I think we talked about it here too. I was kind of thinking to myself, so since we now know that EQ has this estrogen control effect, I wonder, is there going to be a run on EQ since mast isn't in primo isn't as available? I definitely see, feel like I've seen a lot more people leaning into EQ and I have myself with clients. What do you think? Um, it's funny because, because I agree with you, but I also have a lot of people and I feel like knowledge is a double-edged sword, like in the sense that it's great to be educated, but once people know that there might be a potential side effect, I feel like they find that side effect. They, they make sure they have that side effect. So I'm getting, I'm getting a lot of people that are, oh man, this EQ is just kind of making me feel wacky. It's, it's, it's, it's making me depressed. It's making me, yes. And I'm like, man, if I would have bottled this up and just said it was more testosterone and gave it to you, I don't think you would be saying this, you know what I mean? Right. Right. Right. Everyone's an expert in self-diagnosis now. And I'm not saying that people shouldn't be concerned with their health, mental health and all that kind of stuff. But I'm like, man, somebody, you just don't know how good you had it. Like back in the day, for me at least, it was, you, you find a guy that had something and it's like, what do you got? Okay. I'll buy it. Like, yeah. Oh yeah. There was no like, Oh, do you have this? I guess I'm doing an anadrol cycle. You know? Exactly. I guess it's testing dbol for 10 weeks, you know? So it's like the luxury of having so many compounds, luxury of having the education of what are potential side effects. I feel like a double-edged sword. And I do also feel like everyone is so concerned with how they're feeling. And I guess I'm, maybe I'm an old head. I'm just not used to guys constantly talking about where their mental health is, you know? And I'm like, dude, that's what your girlfriend or wife's for. Like, tell her, you know, it's just a different, I guess a different genre that I'm, I'm getting into. I'm, I'm warming up to, I guess. So, yeah. Okay. But I do agree with you on the, on the EQ trickle down effect on estrogen control. I think that, yeah, that's a good point. And I think, yeah, the episode I think you and Dave did was, how long ago was that? It's been a while. Yeah. It might've been 2020. It might've been, it might've been five years ago or now almost six. So, okay. But I feel like there's been follow-up episodes since, so I'm not mistaken. So what, what about what's your take on the DHB trend? Cause that's honestly where I was going with this. So that's where I was going to go for 2026. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So we're, we're in agreement there. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay. What, what personal experience and client experience. And we both know that everyone was scared of, of the PIP, right? They're like, if I have to do that three times a week or four times, you know, I'm not going to last. Well, I guess. And for a long time, that's the reason why I didn't have clients do it because there is the chance that they run into that. And I've always said, there's so many other options. Why use that? Yes. Exactly. When we can go to something, it's not going to cause that, you know, I've only had one guy tell me he had an issue with it, but he was using a source from a bottle from someone he got two years ago. Oh, hold on. Switch to this source. Try it out. Not a single problem. I mean, he sent me a picture of his tricep and the thing was blown up. Like, what you would expect from when you take a bad delt shot. Yeah.  and it trickles down and inflammation and all that and all that and I'm like okay throw that bottle away who cares about the money you spent let's try this source out I guarantee you won't feel that way it's gonna feel like butter and sure enough he's like dude okay this is why I never used this product before so I agree with you I agree with you I think DHB is gonna be more of a household name in 2026 I agree and I think too that I think we're kind of starting to dispel some of the myths and rumors and rumors and rumors and rumors and rumors and I think I think too that I think we're kind of starting to dispel some of the myths and rumors and rumors before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before before eating just doing some bodybuilding stuff right because for for me like you know when I get through nationals that's kind of where my season starts for a little while right but then of course this year we went up north to Vermont for you know Vermont New Hampshire and New Jersey for 10 days so I really just started again this Monday you know I took another 10 days off from the gym was eating as clean as I could probably getting you know four meals a day on average instead of five and but now I'm home six meals a day training I've already got three training sessions in for this week nice so yeah so but yeah to answer your question the labs are definitely in the works probably maybe another three four weeks all right yeah yeah keep me posted on that how sore are you getting back in the gym now like yeah is it so feeling it uh my legs are sore from Monday but we're going to train them again tomorrow so um I think I'll be fine by tomorrow uh so I think I told you I'm training with Kamal now and oh yeah yeah yeah you mentioned that yeah anyone that knows Kamal he's a high volume I mean he wears t-shirts that say high volume are you going to keep up with him how's that going to work out so I I bring up a lot of stories from back in the day because he's kind of a bodybuilding historian too so I can slow him down a little bit but I mean keep in mind there's three or four of us usually training together and it's faster than if it's just me and one partner like like we're it's funny because Rachel's like wait you guys are done already I'm like somehow we got like 24 sets done of five different exercises and yeah like I'm already done yeah and brutal too not like just workouts right I mean it's like pump workout to with like two hard sets every exercise like okay yeah you're grinding you know what I mean you're you're not ever doing anything that's unsafe or where you know but you're getting a little bit of forced rep out of it towards the second um second the last two sets and I'm sure no slowing down into those hard sets or after oh no oh no no like your cadence with each guy is just going if that chair is empty you should get your ass in the chair you're going next you know so that sounds a lot the way Shelby would train and it just was go go go and you know in hard set and then like okay there's no like hang out recover from this it's like like what are we doing next you don't get into it you put it this way while the last guys are finishing up their set of an exercise Kamal's already setting up the next exercise we want to do nice getting warmed up on that one like so the cadence stays the whole way through are you guys doing all four people on one machine so is it like one okay well that buys you a little bit of time not much but one would think like I'm telling you like I'm breathing hard like fairly you know not like dying but but like you know you're probably doing a set every 90 seconds at most I mean it's yeah there's no waste of time like today we did we did lap pull down actually Kamal wasn't even here but in his honor we kept the pace going because he went back over overseas but we did lap pull down we did a one arm hammer row okay we did a t-bar row we did a cable row and then we did one more another pull down I believe and four working sets of each two of them were like really hard sets and it took us maybe an hour and 15 minutes for four of us so okay yeah it's good workout I'm sure man yeah good good it reminded me of what you were telling me you would do a Shelby you know are we using like 100% of our max weight no but it's like 92 to 94% you know but keeping up that pace yeah all right well anything else you can think of we should mention obviously we could go into peptides like peptides are an animal of its own 2026 or 25 had been huge for peptides I don't think that's going to end any with anytime soon you know well do you think peptides are going to be as available on the research sites versus your guy that's maybe selling the other stuff the other peds that's where it's going to go that's where it's going to go yeah yeah I feel like because there's money to be made from pharma and pharma listen my ffl takes takes glps right and as soon as I was talking to him about like it just he was talking about his um family his wife his daughter and him they're all on semaglutide and I'm like oh where do you go for that you know and he goes so we go to the clinic they charge us 120 bucks a shot for each one of us and we go every week and I'm like your family spending about a thousand bucks a month on this I'm like yeah hold my beer okay yeah and I sent some particular sites and I'm like listen man this is the same stuff the bodybuilding community uses it yeah I'm not telling you what to do I'm just telling you you could probably cover your family for like 200 bucks a month you know yeah and um if you get me a silencer I'll tell you exactly where to get it you know right right yeah we're gonna deal let's work out a deal yeah so um yeah I agree I think it's gonna go the underground method so yeah I don't think that that is gonna change but but maybe some of that like the the mainstream hype that's been behind it because listen dude like we've seen in 25 well oh god think back to like 2008 right yep I would have never imagined like a title sponsor being this peptide company for a show yeah but they're like title sponsors of these contests now they're at the expos they have the booths not just some guy yeah like they've got booths you know they got bottles for sale almost it seems like yeah yeah so I think that some of that might get curtailed back and honestly man had it not been for all of that going so far maybe we wouldn't be where we are now maybe the FDA left us alone you know yeah you're probably right yeah I don't know I mean here's the other thing though and I've said this many times if all the GLPs went away tomorrow because I feel like GLPs are the ones they're really oh yeah because that's the one the main manufacturer the main pharmaceutical companies you know I think fuel are getting copycatted but if all those went away tomorrow I wouldn't lose a tear I wouldn't shed a tear like yeah I got people in shape without it before I got in shape without it before okay you got to be hungry yeah so what yeah you know like good old-fashioned put your boots on and get out there and fucking diet you know yeah um but those that want to use it you know I'm not against it yeah yeah and and you know what there are people too like we've had listeners uh I can't find it I might have screen capped it one of our listeners from the last show who was like I've been overweight for my whole life and you know I've always struggled and I've been using semaglutide for the last year I lost 80 pounds I feel so like I am all for it and I know you are too in that regard like man there are people that have changed their lives we're probably like bringing down type 2 at this point yeah well I mean we need to yeah we can't keep going at the current rate that we're going with health care costs you know because a lot of those health care costs are all metabolic syndrome driven inflammation uh sure poor insulin sensitivity like that's the main cause for all of these not all but you know a huge chunk of these diseases that we see and yeah yeah it's just not cool you know we're the wealthiest nation we're the sickest nation like that's crazy you know after 20 years of bodybuilding experience plus coaching countless athletes I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to dry wall paste consistency so when I say that I trust true nutrition I mean it in fact true nutrition is one of the few companies that I trust and trust in this industry well it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot yeah I see you out there what makes true nutrition different you get to pick your base I'm a big fan of the way ISO you get to pick your flavor I like the cookie butter lately you can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts it's basically like the supplement version of Qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning oh my god my insides are on plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies you can cut out the middleman and go straight to the source no proprietary blend nonsense they're third-party tested and in-house tested as well there's no guessing games it's literally just gains in a bag if you want protein you can trust go to truenutrition.com and use our code think after 20 years of bodybuilding coaching and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes believe me when I say this is the good stuff so I've got another one I'm gonna save this one until later so you can think on this okay I want to ask you well maybe we'll do it at the end of the show something like what was one thing you learned in bodybuilding like bodybuilding itself not coaching not business but like bodybuilding in 25 maybe it's we're probably working with clients you know one thing that's going to change what you do in 26 so think about that one we've got a bunch of listener questions by the way guys  And if you are welcome to leave us questions, comment with questions, comment with questions, in fact, that's what drives the programming, so leave us questions, plus comments, likes, all that stuff, it helps to boost our programming and the algorithm, and if you are new here, we'd love to have you along for everything that we do, we have several shows that come out each week. I wanted you to check this out, Andrew, before we got into listener questions. This is a video by the one and only Rough Diesel, Terrence Ruffin training video, all right? I just wanted you to check this out, Andrew, I just wanted you to check this out, Andrew, I just wanted you to observe this movement, and tell me what you think about it. I've got a client that sent this to me. He is working on traps. Like, we realized, like, he's got good shoulders, but he needs to bring up his traps. He said, Scott, what do you think of this, man? So originally, when you sent me this, I thought, I looked at every video in this post, and I thought we were going to talk about the one set per exercise with his particular split, which I think is back, chest, and maybe he did an arm, maybe he's on an upper-lower split or something like that, but now, this particular movement, which is really just a Kelso shrug, it's a variation of a Kelso shrug, which honestly, I've been a big proponent of these for about 20 years, and I use the TR-Row to do this particular movement, but there's no reason why you can't do it on this, I don't even know what machine this is. It looks like, I don't even know either. I don't know, is he overseas right now, or? I don't know, but for our audio listeners, it's kind of set up like the, what machine is that by Hammer that has, like, a low, low, seated row? Yeah, it's just like your typical pronated grip seated row, which also has the option to do, looks like a neutral grip row as well. You know what I might not like about that? It looks like the handles get wider as you go down. I don't know if I would want that, personally. Yeah, I would agree with that. Yeah, I do agree with you. I don't know, yeah, I've never seen that manufacturer, I've never seen that machine, but for anyone that's, you know, listening, what you should do is just Google the Kelso shrug, and you'll get an idea of the movement that we're talking about, because really, all he's doing is, he's basically stretching his scap out, and then he's contracting as much as he can, using his medial traps primarily, a little bit of terries to complete the movement. Yeah, it's one of these movements where you gotta, like, I would tell people that wanted to try this out to start with one plate, to get that range of motion, and to not try to go too heavy, because if you try to go too heavy, you start to see people, I don't know if people can see me, you start to bend your elbows a little bit, and you start to row it a little bit more than you're shrugging. So it's really important to keep those elbows locked out, and to really just focus on, if anyone ever does, familiar with scapular cars, controlled articular, I don't know what the R stands for, but it's like a, Retraction? It's like a PT thing, it's like a PT chiropractic. For, like, wing scapula? Yeah. Because that's what I was thinking, dude, it reminds me of, like, the therapy you would do for wing scapula. Yep, yep, exactly. It's very similar to that movement, but you try them out, I think you'll blow your medial traps up and your rhomboids up in a way that you kind of haven't before. Yeah. It's a great movement. So my first thought was, I was like, okay, yeah, so he's working lower traps, and I'm thinking to myself, so this is just the bottom range of a row. I mean, he could continue those arms on, and it would be a full range row. So it's something that you are definitely hitting in a row, but then I'm thinking to myself, you know what, if you needed to bring traps up, you could overload the exercise that Terrence is doing, like, three times heavier than you would ever be able to row. So I could see that, then I was like, damn, that seems like it's actually for that purpose, that sense of being able to go so much. Kind of like when you think of, like, you know, Dusty loves doing those, like, and I know John liked them, the lateral raised partials. Yep. Where you're only going, like, two inches, dude. You do that with, like, an 80-pound dumbbell. There's no way that I'm doing laterals with that, but you can get that little partial out of it, you know, and you can handle three times the weight, right? Yeah, 100%. There is actually a way, with a lot of people, I teach them to do, like, a pronated row on a prime, you know, like the prime chest-supported row. Yep. That's plate-loaded. Yep. You know, like, we'll actually have them do that Kelso-type shrug movement first and then go into the pullback, the row portion. Ah. So you just do that, like, little contraction first and then follow through with the full. To engage those rhomboids and lower medial traps and then bring the rest of the back muscles into play. And obviously you're not going to go as heavy as you could on just, like, the shrug portion, but it'll light your back up. And kind of like the whole, that whole upper range girdle. It's kind of cool, actually. I'm even thinking of, like, getting creative. Like, you just mentioned that's a pretty creative idea. What if you were to, like, almost do a super set or it would almost be like a drop set where you do your rows and then after you've tapped out, you get as many more as you can with that short range, you know? So we actually used to do that, my buddy Chaston up north. And we would do a T-bar row, like a regular T-bar row. Yep. And then we'd get that done and we'd actually add a plate on and go right into the shrugs. Because you can overload that a little bit more. Those aren't fatigued yet. And you could do those Kelso shrugs for, like, another 10 or 12 reps. It's a great little combo super set for sure. Yeah. And you wouldn't have to, because here's the other thing, too. I think sometimes when I've worked with guys that tend to need more traps, the first question I ask them is, okay, what are you doing for traps? And they're like, oh, man, I actually kind of exactly do traps get neglected. You could kind of tack that on to your workout without having added, you know, much more time, too. You know why they got neglected? Why? So do you remember when we probably first started, we had more of the traditional bro split of, like, you know, legs on Monday, chest on Tuesday, back on Wednesday. Thursday was usually delts and you did traps. Shoulders and traps. Yes. You did shoulders and traps together. And then the whole controversy of, well, should you train traps with your shoulders or should you really train with back? So it was still getting done at least one of those days, right? But it was usually the last exercise because no one rarely started out with shrugs. Yeah. It was always, like, the fifth or sixth exercise. But then everyone started going to push-pull legs or some variation of. And then it's got to be like, well, how many exercises am I doing in this workout? And are they really judging traps as much these days? Like, I need more delts. I need more chest. So I'm going to put more energy into those movements. And you're like, traps kind of get hit with everything. They kind of get hit with everything. So, yeah. But everyone did traps at least once a week in the late 90s, early 2000s, probably to, like, 2011. I mean, I can't remember a workout or a week where I did not hit dumbbells or Smith or barbell shrug. They had this kind of like, so all the programs that I had done that John had written all had some sort of trap exercise in them. Yep. The one that we did that I loved, and you've probably done this, is hard squeeze at the top and then a slow negative down. Dude, traps are probably, traps and calves are, like, the two shortest range of motion out of everything in the gym. Like, and we literally, you watch anybody do traps, they squeeze it up and then they just drop it. Drop it. Yep. You know, nobody's controlling it down. It wasn't until I started doing those on John's training, you know, I started thinking, like, oh, yeah, man, there is a range of motion in there. And you can make that nice and slow, you know? Yeah, it was, I don't think I've ever seen shrugs programmed in his programs, were written into his programs that did not say hold the contracted position for two seconds. Yes. Right? It always was hold for, and same thing with, like, the calves, too. It was always hold the stretch position for a full one-second count or a five-second count even. I wouldn't, no, I never did his calf stuff. Oh, you didn't? Yeah, you didn't. You just took a marker. You took a marker out and just like, eh, I don't need that. Yeah. I mean, hey, if, I mean, honestly, and this is a good tool for listeners, if you have a massively overwhelming body part that's so much better than the others, skip that body part or at least bring that training frequency down. Because you're just wasting time that could be putting recovery and energy towards a body part that really needs it. So, especially when it comes to calves, you're like, dude, my calves aren't going anywhere. Like, so put more into your hamstrings, put more into your back, whatever you need. They ain't going to shrink over, like, a 12-week prep, you know. They're probably going to get bigger just from all the cardio you're doing. Right, the cardio, and they're getting hit with everything else, you know. Yeah. So, yeah. All right. So, we've got a bunch of listener questions. Like I said, we'll dive into these. I'm sorry for everybody who's watching this. You guys didn't see the live stream on this because we didn't go live today. Okay. We're having, I'm having issues with getting things to run live. Yeah, we couldn't. We would have. I would have loved to have. But we do have a ton of listener questions. And you guys, like I said, are welcome to comment with questions in the future episodes. Ebuff from over at Patreon. And once again, guys, thank you for your support over at Patreon. He says, this question is for Scott, Skip, and Andrew on BSG. Well, we've got two of the three of us. When beginning a lengthy fat loss diet for a non-competitor, he's figuring 16 to 20 week diet for argument's sake. What rate of fat loss do you target out the gate?  And how do you decide when to increase the rate of fat loss and when to dial it back? Thanks for all the great info that you guys share? Thank you, Ebof, we appreciate you, man. So I try to tell people this, like my general pop people that they don't want to get on stage. I tell them you still have to do the thing, like let's say they want to get to like a six week outlook, like abs, clear lines on their delts, clear lines in their quads, but like not just stripped with the skin super thin, right? So I explain to them, so I explain to them, so I explain to them, so I explain to them, you still need to do everything that that contest prep athlete did to get to that six week point, like, just because you're not getting on stage, it doesn't mean your body takes it less seriously, or that you can slack a little bit more to get there. Maybe you take a little bit more time, sure, but like, like you still gotta do, like whether it's cardio, intense dieting, or whatever else it is, you still gotta do those things, you're right? So, so I'm like, I'm gonna treat you like a contest prep competitor. I'm not gonna come out, come down on you, if you cheat, or if you, you know. There's that. There's that. I'm not, I'm not gonna like hold your foot to the fire if, you know, something comes up, and you're like, well. Yeah, like if it's your birthday, and you go off plan, and you end up not making progress, well, so be it, right? Yeah. It's like, it's not like we're on a deadline, okay. Yeah. So, so I just wanted to say that first, just because I think people think, well, I'm not getting on stage, like, I don't need to be as serious, and it's like, well, you kind of do. It's the fact that, like, maybe, let's say that we got this guy down to, like, he's only eating, like, 60 carbs a day, and he's getting in, he's in pretty good shape now. Maybe we stop there. We don't need to do the, the whatever it takes. Yeah. You don't need to keep pushing to keto. That's a great way to put it. We're not doing an hour of cardio. Like, there comes a point with a non-competitor that you kind of decide, and it's between the coach and the client, that kind of decide, like, is it worth doing more than this? And that's usually where I would, you know, cut it. But you're right, dude. Like, up to that point, you're doing everything else. It's just, you don't take it as far. You know? Yeah. And then, you know, it's funny, because some competitor, or clients, sorry, might say, you know what? No, I want, I want the full experience. Like, I made it this far. Like, get me shredded. Get me glued. Let's keep going. So you're like, okay. Like, it's going to take a little bit more, mentally, physically, but let's do this. I'm game. Let's do it. But to answer his question, you know, I would expect the same thing I would expect from a competitor. You know, if you gave me a timeline of 16 to 20 weeks, which is what we do with competitors, everyone likes to see a number. And it's, like, hard to give a number, because one week, you might lose a half pound. The next week, you might lose four. It's like, it's just so hard to say. Yeah. I would say maybe close to something like 1.5 to two pounds a week is probably a feasible goal to be shooting for. Might not always hit it every week. In some weeks, you might drop four to five pounds. So it's like an average, maybe, you know? Yep. I would, I'd go with that 100%. And you might throw that average off in that first two, three weeks. Like, if they're not on a consistent plan, you might lose eight pounds and then six pounds and then four pounds and then two and then two and then two. 100%. Or you might, you know what, depending on if you're assisted, you might get to a certain weight. And it just kind of stays the same or goes up, but you look harder and harder and harder because of the effects of the compounds. So you're getting tighter, getting leaner, your body fat levels are going down. I mean, I can think of tons of people where we get them to, like, they didn't lose much. They lost maybe a total of five pounds from eight weeks out to the day of a show, you know, which is like, well, you only dropped five pounds. It's like, yeah, but we got you there pretty quickly and then you just hardened up more and more and more and volumized. So it just depends. My last season competing, I started my off, I started the contest prep and I was competing at light heavy. I started the contest prep at, like, 205, 207. That's where I started and I ended at 193. Yeah, I was just going to say, most people think, okay, if you start a prep at 205, man, you're going to be down to 178. You're going to be the smallest light heavyweight out there, right? But you're like, nah, we lost a total of, what, 13 pounds, 12 pounds? Like, that's an incredible prep if you ask me, right? Oh, yeah. It was slow, too. Muscle was gained. Yeah. Muscle was gained. I was, like, 190 at the first show, 191, but then I kept going and then I was able to eat more, right? And I kept getting leaner and feeding up and by the end I was, like, 195. So, whatever. That's great. That's kind of, like, I had a girl, she got her pro card this year in figure. And we basically, we had her in shape at eight weeks out for a local show that she won. And then we were just able to titrate food up to where she just kept getting harder and harder. That's the best. Yeah, weight was going up maybe, like, an average of 0.3 to 0.4 a week. Like, very small amounts. But she just got bigger in a good way to where I loved how she looked. And this is a big testament to her because most competitors, when they get off stage after a show, especially when they win and get a pro card, they're ready to celebrate, right? I said, you know, I think I could have peeped you better into the show. Like, we were dry as could be, but I think we can get you a lot fuller. Can you hold off doing some of the extracurricular stuff for one more week and let's experiment? With no show? No show in mind, no. And knowing that the holiday was literally another 10 days away, she goes, absolutely. And people like that, you will have my respect for life because it's hard to diet for a show, but it's hard to stay on plan after the show. Way harder. No contest in sight for another six months, you know, at least. So, yeah, no, we did another protocol and I blasted her food with clean food. We blasted her with clean food and I still found that I didn't get her as full as I wanted to. So, it was a really good learning experience for us to know when she does hit her pro debut, we can go really aggressive once we have you in shape with food. Yeah, that's cool, man. That's really cool. I also tell people that all bets are off on what the scale is going to do if we add another compound in. Maybe we start with just like test and a little bit of clean and then after four weeks, maybe it's a 16-week diet. Ten weeks out, we add in masteron or whatever. Yeah, something. Yeah, and maybe we're seeing two pounds, two pounds, two pounds. Then we say, all right, let's throw a 400 mast in. All bets are off, man. You know, like you said, that's when you just look leaner and better without seeing any. And that's why we do pictures. Exactly. You know, the scale is one thing, but my first prep after we added Trin in, I didn't lose any scale weight for like nine weeks. It was terrifying to me, but thankfully I had somebody helping me that knew what he was doing. He just kind of, you know, verbally smacked me upside the head and was like, dude, you're looking better each week. Yeah. I betcha. You know? Right. Just like that. Proof is in the pictures. Proof is in the pictures, you know? Right. Yeah. All right. How about this one from Joe over at YouTube? He says, Scott, question for the next podcast. Should I be concerned with heavy metal contamination in gear? I just watched the Tim Piotakowski episode. I could test everything I buy, but it would get quite pricey. What are your thoughts? So Tim is a researcher in Australia, Andrew, and he works with the government there and he's gotten a lot of funding to do testing on gear. They've set up clinics that go along with like the harm prevention clinics on the streets and everything that actually deal with PEDs. Wow. And he's gotten to do a bunch of cool research studies with the gear using population and that kind of stuff. And one of the things, and you know this, but they've always had a harder time getting good quality gear. And we talked about that. You and I were talking about it before the show today. So that is a factor with the quality of gear that Tim is testing. I want to keep that in mind. But, yeah, he was seeing some heavy metal contaminations. What are your thoughts overall on testing for heavy metals, Andrew? I guess my thoughts would be if he can find a provider that he trusts, send a sample of all the compounds you want to use once to, say, Genoshek or one of the other testers. Because it's probably the case that this provider is doing everything the same way every time they're manufacturing what they're manufacturing. So the quality control is probably going to be the same whether you bought something earlier this year or you're buying something later in the year is what I'm assuming. And then if you, and I don't know if Genoshek tests for heavy metals. I'm not entirely sure. I believe he does if, you know, he can. Okay. So I know, like, testing for the compound and the amount is about $120 a sample. So let's say you send a catalog of stuff, maybe five or six compounds. It's going to probably cost you about $800. That's probably worth it to you, you know, to check. Or the alternative is you can, after using a product for a cycle, go and get your heavy metals tested for about $200 and just see, you know. I mean, I did a test two years ago because I suspected mercury poisoning. And sure enough, I had mercury poisoning. I remember that. Yeah, it wasn't fun, you know. So, but that was only a $200 test. But it works. For the listeners, too, that wasn't from gear, right? No, that was from thinking that the rules of raw, you know, just eating mass amounts of fish didn't apply to me, you know. I'll be fine. I'll be fine. You know, I just moved to Florida. I've been down here for a little while. Oh, my gosh, there's this nice fish market right down the street from my house. And I'm going to eat poke bowls three times a day, you know. That's kind of what I was doing. So, because poke just goes down so quick, you know. And it's, you're not full. You can eat again in two and a half hours. So, but, yeah, I mean, I would use one of those methods. You know, testing your metals in yourself isn't going to tell you what's necessarily in the gear.  It will just tell you collectively what's going on with heavy metals in your body, whether it's food consumption or other adulterants, but at least it will give you an idea of what you're using is causing any issues. Yeah, I remember Dave Crosland had some high levels at one point, he suspected something was wrong, he was using a massive amount of gear, and he was using a massive amount of gear, and he was all, he started getting these cysts that were just like weird cysts that were just like weird cysts, and he said that it, he said that it, from what he was learning, from what he was learning, from what he was learning, from what he was learning, from what he was learning, from what he was learning, from what he was learning, like this seemed like it could have been, from some sort of heavy metal poisoning, so, I can't remember what it was, but he tested out of range on a few different things, and they did like chelation therapy, and all of that with him. With Dave though, I would say it's one of those results not typical thing, because wasn't he, well, I don't know the exact dosages he was using, I can't remember from this DVD, but wasn't it like 4000mg of test a week, or more even? Dude, it was a lot of gear. Like 10,000mg a week of gear, basically, right? I don't think it was that high. I don't think it was that high. I think he was doing like 3 grams a test, and I think he was doing like 2 grams a trend. Okay. Not that bad, Andrew. No. So, okay, so 5 grams of gear a week, I mean, I don't remember, yeah, before the trend it was DECA, I think, but it was a lot, you know, I mean, he had a bin, where he was just like throwing the empty bottles, and you would think it was like, just, like if, you know, by my desk, I drink a soda at my lunch break, and I Diet Coke, or Mountain Diet, I do it, I toss it in there. Yeah. It was like filling that bin up for him. Yeah. And those bottles aren't that big, so. Right. I mean, I guess, so let's just say he's probably putting in like 3 times the amount of oil that an average cycle user will put in, so I guess do with that what you will with that information, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'll tell you what, man, I haven't ever heard of anybody who was like, oh, dude, did you hear about such and such, got, you know, heavy metal poisoning from, you know, aluminum poisoning from gear or whatever. So, I mean, I'm not going to say it can't happen, though. No, it can totally happen, but I'm with you. I've never heard through the grapevine or other coaches that someone had heavy metal toxicity due to PEDs. Yeah. All right. How about this one? Love the show, guys. Question for the next one. Currently running 500 TESIP, 500 DECA, three IUs of growth hormone before bed. Would you switch anything around in this cycle? I'm feeling awesome a few weeks in. And that's it. So, okay, so, I mean, the last statement, he's feeling awesome a few weeks in. I would take that over my initial thoughts when I heard 500 TES, 500 DECA, because to me, I want a different ratio of testosterone to enandrolone. Like, I would probably take out 150 of the DECA and swap it in for 150 extra TES at least, something like that, right? But his last statement, I feel awesome, I feel great, things are going well. Now, is it just because his blood levels haven't saturated enough yet? Right. Who knows? If he's still feeling great in another two to three weeks, I'd say keep doing what you're doing. If he doesn't, I would probably say let's bump that test up a little bit and pull that DECA down. Yeah. Yeah, I think I ran DECA high one time. Yeah. I think it was 800. For me, that was very high. Mm-hmm. And I think I was taking 1,000 tests, 1,000 over eight days, because I was doing it every other day. So it was like 800 every eight days. Okay. So like seven something, you know, every seven, every week. Yeah. I didn't like that cycle personally. Like, I tolerated it. I wasn't like, oh, man, I'm feeling real moody. But I just, I didn't feel great. I don't feel like I ever got to a point where I was like, yeah, this is an awesome cycle. For me personally, I don't know, man. I know. I agree with you. I tested DECA cycles I didn't particularly enjoy. So, and I probably only did two straight tests in DECA cycles. Yeah. And that's why, you know. I remember the first time I learned anything about DECA, it was in a muscular development magazine. It was John Romano had an article talking about, you know, DECA durable or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. And he says, he's like, yeah, I just remember my cycles of DECA that you knew the DECA was kicking in when you were on the leg press. And when you normally would fail, your legs just turned into pistons and just kept getting more reps. You're not wrong. And then he had a, but he had a story too. He was like on a quad. He's like, I'm out on my four wheeler and I see this couple that got stuck and I come over and I'm on the DECA and I help the guy get his quad unstuck. And I see the girl look at me like I'm the man. He's like, yeah, that's what DECA is kicking in. I was like that. So when I think of DECA, that's like my, my first thought sometimes is that was my initial intro to it. John Romano being strong. Yep. Yeah. All right. What else we got here? He's got a question for the next show. How feasible would this offseason be 150 tests with 500 DHB per week? Um, I want to do this because I have a really hard time dealing with my estrogen. Also is DHB really twice as anabolic slash strong as test? Thank you. Um, okay. So the second part of the question first, uh, I don't know. I can't remember. I don't think I've ever actually looked up the androgen anabolic androgenic ratio on those or like the attachment. And honestly, I discount that stuff big time. Sure. You know, like that chart and everything. And it's like, Oh, Trent is twice as powerful as test or five, 500, whatever. I think it's 500 or something, you know, it's like, think about that for a minute. 500 like, like, okay. So if I take one milligram of testosterone, I'm getting, I'm sorry, one milligram of trend, I'm getting the same as if I was taking 500 milligrams of test in terms of the anabolic nature of the, the pro no, like, yeah, I'm sorry. Like you try doing cycles with just one milligram of trend and see what happens, you know? Yeah. So I just don't really believe in, in those things. And answer the first part of his question, 150 tests, 350 or 450 DHB? 500 DHB. 500. 150 tests, 500 DHB. Oh, okay. Honestly, I've never tried a very low test DHB cycle. So I don't know. I don't know. I mean, what are your thoughts? I would, so a couple things. So when I first ran DHB 2009, uh, in, in, in a contest prep, and then the following offseason, I ran 400 in the contest prep. And then I ran 500, no, excuse me, 600 in the office. It was either 500 or 600 in the offseason. I can't remember, but back then it used to be dosed at 200 milligrams per mil. And it was all very painful as you imagine. Yeah. It was rough stuff. Oh, yeah. Um, it's, I, I thought that, but I also ran the test higher. It was a great cycle. Like it was a great, both cycles were great offseason. I felt very, very dry and full from it. I, I didn't, I still used an AI with it from what I recalled, but keep in mind, man, this is a decade ago plus. So I'll tell you what, man. Um, I would wonder more about when he says that he has a hard time. Uh, dialing my estrogen. What's up with that? That would be my first thing. I don't, I think it's rare that you can't get that part, that piece figured out. And maybe you need to isolate. You know what I'm saying, man? Maybe isolate that piece first. Testosterone only, like try the 150, then try 250 and just see what the difference is in estradiol. Yeah. Lab's done. See what you need to do to control that. You know? That's not a bad idea. We've talked about. He says he has an issue controlling it in terms of it going high or going too low. He, he just, oh, he didn't say that. I thought too high. It was my first thought, but you know. Well, probably too high. Cause he, he says. That's why he's going low test. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. That'd be my guess. But I would see why, why is your estrogen high? Do you have an issue with clearance? Maybe. Yeah. I'd look at his liver. Honestly. Yeah. I would start their liver and GI health and see what the heck's going on there. Bingo. Yeah. Cause, cause I, I've seen, and you probably too with lab work, you do a liver detox or a GI program with someone and all these estrogen issues that were there, you know, 10 weeks ago, all of a sudden we're back on the same cycle and you're right back in range of 45, 50 for the same dose for dose. Whereas you were 120 before. So I would probably look at liver and GI health first. Yeah. Yeah. I kind of feel like it would just be, I mean, that would be my thought for sure. And if he could, and I don't know about you, but I'm a fan of running more tests if I can. Like I would rather get the bulk of what I'm getting out of the test and then add the other anabolics to kind of modulate that cycle. So, you know, when in doubt, try to go with bio-identical stuff, you know? Yeah. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, Hey, you listen to that podcast. I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look freaking jacked and support.  I don't, I don't see a problem with that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know some high-level pros that use the is, is, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is that, is, is that, is that, is, is that, is, is that, is, is that, is, is that, is, is that, is, is that, is, is, is that, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, between people, compounds, genetics, and what they get out of the compounds they run. It would blow your mind if everyone was privy to the kind of information that some of us get just from knowing some of these people and talking to them and having a relationship with them. So, I mean, 10 years ago or 15 years ago, if someone said someone could get something at 100 mg of EQ in a cycle, I'd be like, the hell out of here. Did you talk to a pro who does 100 EQ? I know one. You do. Okay, that's what I was trying to get at. So, yeah, you know somebody who uses 100 EQ. Yes, and this person is so trustworthy. They're not one of these, oh, you know, I use nothing, and then you find out, well, I know who's selling you your stuff, and they sold you eight bottles of EQ. So, you know what I'm saying? So, you just know, you know, they're very trustworthy people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, my only thought to him would be, yes, you could for that alone. If you can't, I think one of the, there are other benefits to DHT compounds like SHBG and free tests. So, I think that if I had my option, you know, if Andrew, you were like, Scott, you can run a cruise with testing either EQ or testing Primo or Mast. I'd be like, yeah, give me the Mast or Primo. Same here. Same here. But we don't all have that option anymore, do we? That's true. And I guess it'd be, in this person's case, it'd be cool to experiment and just see. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, find out. He's probably wondering what dose, you know, if he's taking, I don't know what he's taking for testosterone for a cruise, but let's say, I don't know, 125 to 150 milligrams of testosterone a week. Yeah. I would probably try to see what EQ at 50 milligrams a week would do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Start there, man. Start there. I mean, because you're not really converting a lot anyway if you're only at 120, 150 tests. Yeah. It's not like your estrogen is going to get, you know, way out of control as it is. And that's why I said, like, 50 EQ, because I'm like, wait a minute, we don't want to crush your E2. Yeah. Like, I think using more than that with that kind of ratio would probably bring you down to low, low levels of E2. And then people run into these issues where they think, oh, my E2 is still high. It must be without getting to detect. I need to take more. And then they're running into even more side effects. So, you know, people sometimes will confuse what they think is high with low E2. Yeah. Like, whether they're having sexual dysfunction or they're just feeling off, you know. So, yeah. That's what I would do. I like that plan. All right. My favorite podcast. You guys are great. I always. Oh, just. I think this was just a comment. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. This is Marks. He says, my favorite podcast. You guys are great. I always trained but never thought about doing bodybuilding shows. Few gym bros encouraged me. I was 58 at the time. I didn't realize all the classes that were available. So, I decided two years to diet and lost 40 pounds. I entered my first show at 60 and I'm addicted to the sport. I'm now 62. I've done three shows, classic physique over 60. Unfortunately, there's not that many competitors. My next show, I will do over 50 and over 60 and hopefully someday doing a national show. I'm retired and I have nothing but time to train right now. I've learned so much through the episodes and appreciate them. I just wanted to share that on the show. I thought that was cool. Very cool. Yeah. Be safe, man. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Don't chase a dream that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Like, listen to the lower doses that we're talking about because you're in your 60s. You want to make it to your 80s and your 90s and enjoy your retirement. So, yeah. I will say that I, and I could say it like firsthand that when you compete, that's where you get the urge to do more. Oh, yeah. Like, I can say all day like, oh, man, just nice low dose cycle and, you know, client agrees with me. And then we're four weeks out. He's like, is there anything more I should be doing? And if you're like, yeah, let's quadruple that test, they'd be like, yeah. Absolutely. You know? 10 and 50 halo. Yeah. 200, you know, win stroke. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Every time. You just, because you want to win, you know? Yeah. And you just want to, you see what's in the mirror. You see how you change from 10 weeks to five weeks and now two weeks out. And you're like, if I could do anything to get even better. Yes. Like, if I could get my skin thinner and the muscle just more pumped pushing against the skin. It's addicting, man. Like, I mean, I can remember clear as day. I mean, I was just, I just left on my 40 a couple hours ago and we're, you know, one of my clients is in a tank top and he's had a really great offseason and he's doing really, really well. He's training with us. And I remember standing right where he was looking in the same mirror three, four years ago when I was, you know, before I lived down here, I'm just down here visiting and being like, I could see it clear as day. Like, man, my shoulders were bursting. My arms were, like everything looked amazing. You know, it's addicting. And it's, it's, I'll tell you what, when you're on the other side, it's one of those things where you look back and you're like, oh, I should have taken more pictures. I should have appreciated it more. I should have, um, I should have. Scott's going to want those pictures for thumbnails one day. Yeah, I know. I, I was such an anti take pictures of yourself in the gym guy. I thought that was like, we're already too much of a show off sport. And so I was very anti, like when I did my posing at the gym is like, went to the corner. There's one little spot. I took my pictures. I, when people came over to watch, I'd be like, nah, please don't like, I'm, this is for my coach or this is for, you know, this is just for me to take home. I'd never wanted an audience. And I, cause I felt like it was already too much of a show off sport. Or now it's like, you know, you could sell tickets for some of these guys that are posing and people would pay it to come watch them. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Sure. 20 bucks. I mean, but we had, um, I mean, anytime the Tampa pro happens and all the athletes from the gym and there's this one spot, everyone goes to, you could literally sell tickets for better seats for people to come watch. I'm not kidding. I thought about asking if I could do that, but it'd be wild, man. All right. Let's see what else we have here. Um, next episode. Oh, okay. I didn't know if maybe you'd have something here. I'm going to ask Ron about this one. Uh, advice for Canadians trying to do doctor blood work. Um, I'm in a semi-communist country of Canada. Uh, you need a doctor signature to get blood work done. Most refuse to include, uh, all necessary tests. Yep. Um, ultra sensitive V2, stuff like that. Um, I, I moved to on terrible. Uh, I moved from on terrible to Southern Alberta and cannot find even, uh, at a TRT clinic. Um, so I know some people in Ontario that would be able to do it. Like I, I've found a couple of places that I could help people with for Ontario. I don't have any affiliation with them, but just clients that go there. Yeah. Yeah. I could reach out to my Canadian clients and figure out what they do because we are able to get it done, but it's usually with, with a newbie, it's usually like hard to get them to figure out where to go to, what to say, to be able to get the, especially females. Like when I want to see their progesterone or I want to see sex hormones to at particular times of the month and, and they get refused, you know, but I do tell a lot of people to do it. They live close to the border, like they're close to Montreal or they're close to, you know, somewhere that's close to the border. Excuse me. Um, you know, a lot of times people make trips to the States, you know, like figure out a clinic on the other side and plan your day trip or plan, you know, weekend and make one of your stops to get some labs done, you know? Yeah. That's not a bad idea. That's a great idea. And I've, I've known people in, uh, Ontario who do come over to Michigan to do that. Um, yeah, it's, it's, it's rough up there. Victoria used to go to, uh, Dr. Eric Serrano. So she'd fly into it from Canada all the way in Vancouver to Ohio, see him and then do labs while she was here. Yeah. It's crazy that it's 2026 and people are not in control of their own labs, you know? Yeah. Like even if they're willing to pay out of pocket, it just boggles my mind. You know, you can do all sorts of things to hurt yourself, like cigarettes, alcohol, you know, whatnot. Right. But you can't get labs done just to check and see. Like, do they not want an educated population? Is that what it is? You know, like what, what's the harm? Yeah.  Hey, so I had that question, I wanted to ask you, which is, you know, what, what, what is, you know, going into 2026, what's one thing you learned about bodybuilding itself, not coaching as in meaning, like, not the business of, you know, anything like that, but actually like, true bodybuilding that you're going to take with you, that's going to change what you do as a coach and as a bodybuilder for 2026. It's a good one. What did you say, what did you say, what did you say, what did you say, what did you say, when someone asked you that? So, I think for me, and this is a personal one, but I see situations where I can apply it, you know, I, I re-figured out a lot about my training and just my personal fitness this year, and a lot of it had to do with like, you know, lowering my expectations, because at one time I was able to do a lot, you know, and I was like super strong, and I'm not that anymore. So, you know, you, we go in the gym and we have these expectations of like, what a good set looks like, what I need to achieve in order to feel like I did the thing I needed to do. And dude, any more, Andrew, my training is like, I did a workout shortly before we sat down to record this. And I, I just went through, I'm not going to say went through the motions, but I just did the sets. I just did the exercises. They weren't the hardest things in the world. And for where I'm at right now, I didn't even take anything to hard failure, but dude, I'm growing muscle right now. I'm regrowing it, you know, but I'm, I'm getting in better shape. I'm, I'm improving. And a lot of that has just been by just doing it. So I, I think that I had maybe gotten overwhelmed by, you know, there's so much in, in all of us are in this world now where you go online and like, you're being told like, you're doing this wrong. And you need to, if you go in the gym, you need to do this, this, and that. It's like, man, if you just lift weights, period, you can turn this podcast off and just get in the gym and just lift weights. You know, you're going to do better than you did the day before. Sure. And from there, it's, it's, it's, it's snowballs. So I, I think for me, how do I sum that up? It's more like the, you know, maybe let go of those expectations and do what you're capable of today. Um, and that it doesn't have to be perfect in order for it to be good, like real good, man. Like for me, the training has been excellent, but if you would have compared it to what I thought good training was in 2021, I would have last, but it's guess what? I'm growing muscles. So that's all that matters. You know, we get people like, I have this friend who, um, local guy here. He also does a YouTube called garage gym homies. Funny as hell. Okay. He like wear side, sideways caps and he's all like, what up? What up boys? It's your garage gym homie. And he does like supplement reviews, pre-workout reviews, all that. But he did a short and he was like, you know what? Somebody came in my comments and they told me that I was lifting weights wrong. Like that. I needed to, I needed to change my form. I mean, who are you to tell another man? Like, who are you to come online and think that you need to tell another man like how he should lift weights? He's not into like where we're at. Right. Yeah. He's not like, like thinking about form and technique and cues. Right. He's having fun. He's having fun. He's like, it's weird, dude. I just think it's weird that you would condemn another man for how he lifts weights. It was like, you kind of got a point, man. You know? You stopped and took time out of your day to critique me. Yeah. To critique another man on how he lifts weights. Like, dude, do you even look like me? Yeah. Yeah. I get that. Okay. Yeah. So that would be my thought, man, is, you know, maybe let go of some of our expectations. And I do have some guys that maybe they get a little trapped in themselves. And I think it's important to remember that, like, God, just get in there and just freaking do it. And that really is, in a lot of cases, going to be, you're going to move forward with that. It doesn't have to be perfect for it to be real good. Yeah. So hearing that, and this is something I've actually been thinking about over the last month at least, because, you know, in your 20s and your 30s, when bodybuilding is your number one thing besides your spouse, right? You know, you're not as worried about businesses. You're not thinking about retirement's a foreign word at that point. You're just thinking about, how am I going to get my legs bigger? How am I going to be a better competitor? And then you see the guys in their 40s that do come into the gym, kind of like what you're talking about, and they're just coming in. Like, they're making it in. And you're like, man, why doesn't this guy just get serious? You know, like, why doesn't he buckle down? Or he's only here two days a week sometimes, but the other days he's here four, okay? And where I'm going with that is where I'm at now. Giving myself a little bit of grace for not being able to be that 22 or 24-year-old kid where bodybuilding is number one. Because it got me depressed this year. Because I had to skip so much gym time. Because you get older and you have more responsibility. People that depend on you. People, you know, bills that need to be paid. Wealth that you're trying to accumulate. And it becomes as important as that bodybuilding goal 20 years ago. You know? Yeah. Yeah. And realizing that, hey, you're closer to retirement now than you were yesterday. Like, you started to say it. Than you ever have been. Than you ever have been. Like, literally. But definitely more so than last year and definitely more so than 20 years ago. And my point is that I understand. I'm empathetic to those guys now. Like, they were just coming in trying to get it done. Yeah. With the hour and a half that they had two or three days a week. Right? Right. Now, with that, I did say, because bodybuilding is a huge part of my life. And I was very disappointed in myself this year. Because when I say I probably went to the gym 50% of what I did in 2024 and 2023. I'm not kidding. Okay. And I made a goal. Like, this year, I am going to put myself first. I'm going to program it in. And I'm going to leave the house. And whatever I need to get done, it'll be there when I get back. Yep. Sure will. 11 a.m. to about 1. Yeah, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. is my time. And I even started telling clients. Because I had a client try to come up to me when I was training legs on Monday by myself. He's like, oh, hey, Andrew. Sorry I haven't checked in in two weeks. I'm like, dude, no offense. Not now. Yeah. And he's like, oh, you're on that, like, oh, I don't want people to bother me in the gym thing. I'm like, it's not a thing, buddy. Like, this is my time. Like, I don't go up to your job and start asking you stuff about our training program or about our coaching program when you're trying to work. You know? Yeah. Like, this is literally my free time. My hours are, as you know. And I'm like, you missed a check-in. That's on you. You know? Yeah. So, and then he's like, oh, okay, I got to get it. Proceeded to ask three more questions. Of course. Yeah. I think I got through to him because he didn't bother me yesterday or today. And so, anyway, my point is, is putting myself first because I do love bodybuilding and I still want to do, and again, like you were saying, expectations. My expectations aren't to get on stage or to go and win a pro show or any of that stuff. It's just to develop a routine where I feel good about myself and I'm feeling like I'm moving forward in some way. Yeah. So, that's my plan. I like that a lot, man. And that's what I've done in, you know, for 2025 is what I had done is created that routine. And let me tell you, man, it comes back fast and you get into it quickly. And it surprised, that's the thing, man, is that it surprised me how much progress I've made just by, like, doing that, just by getting in, just by doing it. And versus, I think that I kind of maybe, it's kind of similar, I think we kind of have the same thing here, you know, that it surprised me how much progress I made without having given it the same level of attention as I had in the past. So, how will that, let me ask you this then, how will that influence how you treat your clients and how you work with them? And so, I think I'm going to be a little stricter with my check-in guidelines with, you know, because we're the only business where we're kind of available to people 24-7 in a sense, right? Like, if you're... Yeah, unless we lay it down, yeah. Well, here's the thing, like, and a lot of my clients know this, when they text message me, I don't respond back. Because my protocol, I funnel everything to internet or to the email. And when I'm sitting at my desk, I'm 100% engaged. I turn off alerts and I'm not playing with my phone. I'm 100% engaged to get through the work. When I'm on my phone or when I'm off the desk and I might be doing something on my phone or I might be with Rachel or I might be watching football or I might be... I'm not going to be responding to people, you know? And I started that this year where I just, I'm not responding to DMs. I'm not responding... When I'm at my desk, funnel everything to email and I'm going to get back to you that way. That's the way I used to do things. Yeah. It's a great way to, like, be productive and efficient. I used to, but I started letting it slide because you're just so busy. You're like, okay, I'll get back to this person now. But the other thing is, you know, I was talking to, I had Justin Jacoby on my show yesterday. Okay. And Justin tells me he takes off the week of nationals only for his, he only works with his prep people that he's bringing to the show. Okay. He takes that week off all the way through January 5th. Oh, wow. Almost 20 days, right? Yeah. And he's like, dude, I need it. He's like, if I just want to sit and watch TV all day and watch football and, you know, go to the gun range and do this and that. He's like, that's when I get all that fun stuff done that I can't do the rest of the year. Because, like, you know, when you're a coach, you're invested in your people the rest of the year. And I'm like, well, how do people respond?  And he's like, man, man, that's fine, man, that's fine, man, that's fine, maybe I'm just not the coach for you if I'm not literally there 52 weeks a year when there's no contest coming up, like, cause there's no contest coming up, like, cause there's no shows in the near future. So there's nothing that someone can ask you that needs to get done like today, you know, at this time of the year. There's nothing that is so crucial that needs to be answered right now. And so I'm like, you know what, I think I might do that next year too, where I'm going to take Nationals week until at least January 2nd off. Okay. And just try to reboot, and just try to reboot, maybe if I had let my training fall off a little bit towards the end of the year, that's when I'm going to take that time to really get engaged again. So, so I'm just picking up other things from other coaches that are good at what they do and how they organize themselves. And then I found out there's a whole bunch of other coaches that do the same thing. They just like, yeah, I'm not reachable for two, two, three weeks, and I take that time off. Nice. Yeah, I like that, man. Yeah, I'm going to try to, as far as coaching goes, better organize my check-in times in days on my end, you know, so that I can be as effective as possible with that. And then also be able to have the time I need for the podcast. And also, because I have plans to continue growing everything, but in order to do that, I just need to have like blocked off spaces. No, you're right. Make that work. I don't know if you're like me, because since starting the podcast, two episodes a week, it's a time consumer. It's, it really eats into you. I mean, you've got what? A little bit. Five to six shows a week. I mean, in some of them multiple episodes. I mean, that's a lot of time because people don't see the back end. They see, okay, you're sitting there in the computer and you're talking. Okay, that's 45 minutes to an hour. They don't see the extra hour and then the time it takes to make, to edit. They don't see the time it takes to make a thumbnail. They don't see the edits. You got to do, oh, shoot, we used a bad word there. We got to take that out. You know, they don't see all the back end stuff. Yeah. Yeah. The timestamps, the everything. The timestamps. Yeah. And everyone's a career. But, you know, it's like the smallest violin. You know, it's like, we would, I wouldn't, I know you're not complaining like you would trade it. I wouldn't trade it for the freaking world, man. No, no. We could have desk jobs working for someone else. I couldn't. I mean, I couldn't. I couldn't. I couldn't. But, yeah. You know, so. But, yeah. You know, just continuing to try to grow for 2026 as much as possible. And I've got some other business ventures that I'm starting. I mean, I started actually last week that I hope to bring to fruition in the next couple weeks that I think will be good for the industry. Actually, I'll tell you right now. It's, you know, we hear these stories about coaches. Coach, you know, he signed me up for six months, took my money, never sent a plan. Yeah. We hear these stories all the time. Or, even worse, in my opinion, male coach, female, and he says, hey, I need some nun clothed pics. Yeah. To assess that fat level. That was a specific term. That was a specific term. I know. And it's turned into a joke in the industry. But, to be honest, it's really not a joke because it happens more than I think people like to admit. You know? And the problem is females don't really speak up about it. They tell their friends and then it gets back to coaches like myself. And you're like, really? That guy did that? And then you hear other stories. And so, anyway, I think I like transparency. And I want good coaches to rise to the top. I want bad coaches to get buried. So, I started a website called ratemycoach.biz. Holy shit. That'll blow up, man. I hope so. You know? And let me run this by you. It's a very simple site. It's just going to be a database where you can rate communication, response time, various things, and then leave a paragraph or so of your experience with that person. You know? All right. I hope a lot of it's positive so good coaches get great reviews and people can find them and seek them out. But I hope the bad ones who are doing some of this dirty stuff or stealing people's money, I hope that comes out too. But the issue is that I'm trying to figure out how to fix is what's to stop someone from leaving a negative review about someone that didn't actually happen? Yeah. And I have a verification process. But it's like I can verify that someone is real because we're going to use Instagram. We're going to use other methods to verify that someone is an actual person, not a bot. But who's to say? Oh, yeah. That's important in itself, isn't it? Because you could bot somebody up and slam them. Yeah. Oh, he asked me for naked pics or he sent unsolicited pics to me or something like that in a weird way. You could bury somebody if you... There's a lot of drama in the industry. You know, you could set somebody up. Yeah. That's what I mean. You could set somebody up just as easily as you could call somebody out that deserved it. Yeah. So that's something I'm trying to figure out. I heard there's a... It was just on a radio show I listened to, a local show called Dave and Chuck the Freak. It's very funny. They're syndicated through... They're syndicated somewhere in Florida. They're syndicated in Boston. And then they're on podcasts. And since they're local, I've always enjoyed them. They've been out since I was a kid, teenager. Okay. And they talk about random news stories and make jokes. So I'll listen to it when I'm in the shower or something. And anyway, they just talked about... On the most recent episode, it was there's a website. Maybe it's a Facebook group. I know what you're talking about. You know where I'm going with this? I know where you're going. Where you can call out guys. Yes. And there's a guy that's suing because he was like, this is wrong. They set him up and they're making... He's like, I can't get a date anywhere because there's all these fake things going on about how terrible of a guy he is when he wasn't that guy. At least he claims he wasn't. There is that. I've got a firsthand story real quick about a friend who, while he was not dating his girlfriend, so they were broken up, he got engaged in a relationship with a young lady who turned out to not be mentally stable. And I say that with full honesty because I got to witness it and she was actually kicked out of our gym because of her behavior. Okay. Oh, shit. Behavior against him and other guys. And so he is listed on that site now by these mysterious profiles, which are not verified. Oh, yeah. As he did this, he did that. He was sexually active, like he did a lot of stuff that crosses the line. I've got to make sure I make a note to beep that out. Oh, is that a bad word? Sorry. You know, that term, that makes it like, you know, that topic or whatever is a sensitive topic. So you just have to be careful. Yeah. But, yeah, so anyway, to wrap this up, he contacted the site. He contacted local authorities. Local authorities can't do anything about it. They were like, well, it's a website, man. There's, you know, they don't, they're not putting pictures of you up. They're not putting any, you know, explicit material up. And it's a review site. So, and he contacted the authorities of the website and they're like, they basically just ghosted him. So he's kind of stuck with this MO out there of this guy that he wasn't because he ended things with this girl and just said, look, I'm not the guy for you. You know, I'm going back to my girlfriend. And in a timely manner, it wasn't like one day stepping out, hooking up with this girl. And then, oh, I'm going back to my girlfriend. It was like, okay, our relationship ran its course. You're too crazy for me. Even if it wasn't. Even if it was. Even if he burned her. Yeah. She could leave the review, right? The one review, but not the 10 or whatever. Yeah, I think she left like seven. Oh, man. Yeah. Dang. Yeah, so that's what happened with this guy who's suing this website. Now, I guess that would be the next order is like get a lawyer, you know. Yeah. But, you know, what is it? I mean, I guess you could say it was like pain and suffering or something. With coaching, it would be like, hey, it's affecting my bottom line. Bottom line, yeah. Defamation of character. But once you figure that out, man, I think that you're on to something in a positive way. That could be cool. You remember Adam McVeigh wanted to build that site. His issue was he was trying to get coaches to pay him to list themselves and then people could come review you. And I was like, he asked me and I'm like, I'm not giving you money. I'm sorry. Like, you could put my name out there and people can review me, but I'm not paying you a monthly service to have me be audited by clients. You know, like, you know, I think he was trying to go about collecting, monetizing the site in the wrong way. And so I'm not going about it that way. And I know Adam or I knew Adam well enough to know he would have liked the power of because he wanted to burn people, too. So here's the thing. I don't want to burn anybody. I just don't want to see. I hate when I hear people are hesitant to hire a coach who might have a certain level of stature because they're good at what they do. But they're hesitant to hire that coach because another coach that's maybe on that same level took $3,000 from them for six months and then never sent them a plan and ghosted them and blocked their email. Like, I don't want to hear those stories. How many times have you had somebody come to you and say, hey, I'm interested in a coach, but I've had bad experiences? Oh, my. Tons. I mean, this idea jumped into my head when a client who just had a very successful season, very successful experience, wrapped up with a pro card win. And she's, you know, telling me that she thought her career bodybuilding-wise was over a couple years ago because of how bad her experience was with the last coach. You know what I'm saying? And luckily she found another coach in between me who's one of my good friends who then passed her on to me for this prep. And she had great experiences with both of us. So I think we restored the faith in the coaching business with her because we gave her what we said we could do, you know. So, yeah, I just don't want to.  I hate, because it reflects poorly on all of us. So yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it really does. Oh, I look forward to seeing how it comes together. Obviously keep us posted, man. We'll, you know, promote it here. Awesome. And, uh, guys, we appreciate everybody tuning in. Glad to have you here for another year. You know, it's, uh, we've got a, we've got a, we've got a good thing going here. We've got a good group of listeners too. You know, I, I, I think that we have like a lot of positivity from our listeners and I really appreciate that, man, because it would not be fun to be fun to be a good thing. I, I, I, I, I, I, I read all the comments. Yeah. It would not be fun to be fun to be fun if, uh, if we dealt with like BS and drama all the time. Yeah. We did have somebody call you Andy, uh, on one of the comments. It was, it was talking about, uh, it was not about me. It must have been someone else. It was, it was you, man. It was, uh, he wasn't saying it derogatory. I know, I know. He just kept referring to you as Andy. He was like, um, yeah, he's Andy, Andy's right about the inflammation markers, you know. Well, then, then he's, he could, he gets a pass then. He was like, Andy completely nailed it. He said I was right. Yeah. He was like, Andy completely nailed it. He used your name like two or three times. Really? Yeah. And at first I was like, who's Andy? Yeah. Oh, I have never been called Andy in my life. Like to where if someone was like right here and said, Andy, my head wouldn't turn. You know what I'm saying? Andy Barry. It has a ring to it, man. That could be your stripper name. Well, cause I used to train with, with an Andy. Right. And it was very clear distinction. I'm Andrew. He's Andy, you know? Yeah. Um, like some people call me drew, um, which that'll get it. That'll, you know, I'll respond to that or, but it's kind of funny. I think a lot of people think my name is actually Barry. Like not my, not a nickname. I think, like I'll get emails sometimes like, Hey Barry, um, thank you for reading this. I'm, I want to inquire for coaching and your rates and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, Oh, by the way, my name's Andrew, by the way, you know, like just politely, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. All right. Well, we appreciate everybody tuning in. Uh, go over to bodyberry.com, reach out to Andrew for coaching, hit me up, mcnelly diets at gmail.com. You can reach out to skip at team skip.com. And of course, uh, go over to true nutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there to get additional savings on all your basic bodybuilding supplements, protein, creatine, intro workout, all that kind of stuff. Uh, supplement source.ca for Canadians. And of course, Patreon guys, leave us more questions. I need to make a new thread. Now, like a winter thread for Patreon. You guys can leave us new questions there. And, uh, for another episode of blood, sweat and gear, I'm Scott McNally with Andy Berry. We'll see you soon. That's good. I had, I'd like, I was planning that like the whole time, man. Yeah, it was good. It was good. Yeah. All right. You still in the melanotin? So I only did five days of it. Oh. And I'd stopped it like three weeks ago. Okay. So, and I didn't take a lot. So it, and the bottle was mixed like two years ago. Like, Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. I told you about how that stuff is so potent, but, um, yeah, no. So I need to actually get some real sun. So it looks more natural now, but I just wanted to get a little bit of power, a little bit of color to my body for. We don't have any of that here. Yeah. Yeah. In Michigan right now. Dude, it's supposed to be 39 this evening. Is it really? Yeah. That's cold. I mean, right now. It's like cold weather, right? Is that cold weather for you? Oh God, yeah. Scott. Okay. I'm a Floridian now. Like, it's 65 degrees and I'm wearing a jacket. Oh, man. I'm like, yeah. I've completely pussified. I was miserable the whole time we were up in, um, miserable. Are we doing two shows or just one? Let's just do the one. What do you say? Okay, cool. I think that'd be good. That's mainly what we had content for. I didn't realize it. We were, we didn't normally record this week. Oh, okay. Okay. Well, so, cause we, I guess we messed up and we did an early one. We did an extra one last week. Okay. So, and I, I didn't realize it until like one o'clock today, honestly. Okay. Gotcha. And then, uh, yeah, but I was like, well, I'll do it anyway. I didn't want to bail on you now. We already planned on it. And I was like, we got stuff. So I was like, let's do it. Perfect. Um, yeah, yeah. I kind of need something that's like new year, like, like bringing it, you know? So yeah, we'll put this one out for Friday. So we still have one more too. Oh, perfect. Okay. So yeah, we've got another one then, but then we're supposed to record a skip and you are available. We're supposed to record next week too. Okay. Yeah. I can make that work. Yeah. Cool. All right. Cool. And I'm recording all this. So this is all going on the show. All this. Well, it's, it's the, it's the end piece. You know what I'm saying? Hold on. Rachel's texting me, asking me if I want Greek. Get the Greek. What do you get from there? Uh, just like chicken from a kebab with rice. Yes. That's like our version of like, we'll get the Middle Eastern food where it's basically the same thing. You know, when we do off plan meals, it's pokey, it's Greek or it's, um, faux. Oh, okay. Do you ever do faux? No, I don't know what it is. It's, um, hold on one second. Get me the chicken or steak kebab with rice and salad. Um, it's literally, it was probably going to pop up is like a rice bowl or a, or a noodle bowl. We do the rice. It's just literally bodybuilder food. It's rice with sliced beef and some veggies and like this sweet, almost soupy broth kind of poured over it. That's what I'm seeing here. Oh dude, it's delicious. And it's so clean. What nationality is this food? I think Vietnamese, if I'm not mistaken. Okay. Is that what it says? Let me see. Uh, Chinese American omelet dish. Uh, you know, it's crazy. Uh, yeah, it's Vietnamese. Okay. It's Vietnamese. So we, we, we were up in Vermont. There's this full place we go to when we're at, whenever we're up to there, like literally on Christmas Eve. Yeah. And I put the order in and the guy recognized my voice. He's like, is this Andrew? And I'm like, uh, does he see my phone calling or something? Like, so no. Okay. I'm like, that was weird. And I get in there and these two brothers, they're like, Hey Andrew, how you doing? What's going on, man? And I'm like, Hey, uh, you guys expanded. I haven't been here in three years. He's like, that's when we expanded right after you left last time. And I'm like, and then they're like, how's, how's the podcast going? Oh, you're kidding me, man. They know me from podcasting. I'm like, holy shit. Cause they were like, we got you the extra protein on the, uh, on the faux dish, you know? And then, and so I'm like, okay, these guys are just really nice. And maybe they're like this to all customers. And then they're like, uh, any podcast this week, uh, uh, with the holidays. And I'm like, Oh, like it's weird, man. And when like, you're like, not like celebrity, but you're like, do you recognize me? Like, you know, it's interesting, you know? So outside of bodybuilding, that's where it's weird. That's what I mean. That's what I mean. Outside of bodybuilding. Yeah. If you're in a gym anywhere in the U S if you're in a gym, it's still like, holy shit. I can't believe that. But it's like, yeah, it makes sense. You know, people use gear here. Yeah. They, they, they, they compete, you know, they, they know us, but yeah, when I've been at like the grocery store, you know, or Ron was at home Depot, um, or man, uh, do you remember Dr. Ogden, Dr. Steve Ogden? He used to do the old podcast. Yes. He, he, uh, he had a pizza delivery guy who came to his house. He's like, holy shit. You're Dr. Ogden. No way. Yeah. That's wild. Literally pizza delivery guy. I'd be like, forget where I live, dude. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I was at this little gym over when I used to live in Largo and this kid walks into the gym and it's a very small hole in the wall gym, but he walks in the gym and he almost drops his phone. He goes, Whoa. And I go, what? And he goes, it's you. And I go, okay. He goes, no, I'm watching you right now as I'm walking into the gym. Oh, that's so cool, man. I was watching you on my way over here. And I'm like, small world, man. That's crazy. He's like, you live here. I'm like, I live five minutes down the road for now. So, but yeah, it was, it was cool. But man, yeah. What else you got? It makes my day. You going out for new year's or anything? No, I got to eat some food and get three check-ins done. And then I'm wrapping up for the night. How about you guys? You're obviously eating in. Well, that's just a meal. Like, yeah, I still have, I only, I only, she's only doing that because she forgot to cook my beef. Oh, wow. And this place is right down the road, but I've got, it looks like 17 check-ins I still got to get to. Ooh. Ooh.