 You've been on a cycle of around two grams of gear for 30, 40, 40, 50 weeks, a lot of diminishing returns. Your expectations are still up here, but you've probably gotten everything you can out of this current blast. If that's not the reason, and you're not seeing what you think you should be seeing out of it, I guess the first question is, is your gear real? Did you get it from a legitimate board? There's that, yeah. The biggest reason or the biggest set of factors I'm thinking is what is training, diet and nutrition and supplementation, sleep, all the other variables that go into being a bodybuilder, what do you think, what do you think, what do you think, what do you think, what do those look like? What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat & Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Berry, myself, Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We're brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there. Get some additional savings on high-quality third-party tested and in-house tested supplements from a company you can trust, all your basic bodybuilding stuff. Supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week-to-week on short-dated and label change. Guys, we've got a bunch of listener questions as we always do. Everybody at home, you're welcome to comment with questions and take part in the show, plus comments, likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming and the algorithm. And if you are new here, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. So please hit the subscribe, the bell, the hype. There's a lot of expectations of you guys, I know. But just do one of the things if you like the show and that'll help us out and it'll help keep us putting the programming out. And feel free to take a cheap shot at any of us. I'm at the top of the list. So just go ahead. Let's see what you got this week. Yeah, why not? Why not? So we did have a bunch of listener questions. We had one guy who basically, to paraphrase, said that he's been running gear a while. He's been at about the two-ish gram mark. He feels like he's not progressing on two grams of gear at this point. He was saying, so he's thinking about jumping into growth hormone and making that financial investment. What are our thoughts on that? Andrew, you better go first. We're like, I don't know. You go first, Skip. I don't want to go. You go, Andrew. I forgot what I just said. No, I think there needs to be a little more context because with everything in bodybuilding, it depends, right? And the first question I would ask him is, well, how long have you been running your two grams of gear? What are the steroids you're using? And where I'm going with this first is, okay, if you've been on a cycle around two grams of gear for 30, 40, 50 weeks, a lot of diminishing returns. You know, you're probably, your expectations are still up here, but you've probably gotten everything you can out of this current blast. And your body probably just needs to reset. You need to go back to some cruise or TRT dosing, get super healthy, and then maybe start the process up again in eight to 15 weeks, something like that. But then if that's not the reason, if you've only been doing it for 10, 12 weeks, and you're not seeing what you think you should be seeing out of it, I guess the first question is, is your gear reel? Did you get it from a legitimate board? There's that, yeah. You know, like, is it severely underdosed? Because as we've been seeing with, you know, people can use Chad GPT to make up COAs on products and convince you that it's higher quality product than it really is. That might be the first thing. But the other thing, the biggest reason or the biggest set of factors I'm thinking is, what is training, diet, and nutrition, and supplementation, sleep, all the other variables that go into being a bodybuilder? Like, what do those look like? If you tell me, you know, I'm eating my six meals a day, you know, I'm training as hard as I can, and then we get to sleep, and you're like, I'm getting four hours of sleep a night because I got to work at 4 a.m. And then I got another job that keeps me at work until 11 o'clock at night. It's like, okay, I think we found the big reason. You know, let's start there. How can we work on getting more sleep? And I think that is going to cause you to get more out of your program. Skip, what do you got for the other ideas that I mentioned? You know, the one thing that I want to jump on that I want to reiterate is I think that most people, they underappreciate or underrespect the sleep component. I get a lot of people saying, well, you know, I just have work. I have, you know, there's so many things. There's so many things to get done in the day. That's true. And, you know, what's kind of funny is I think you guys can relate to this. A lot of people in this world think that they're the ones, they're more stressed and more sleep deprived than everybody else. It's kind of funny. And I've been there. I've found myself going, well, I had this, I had that. Everybody has this and that. So I think that the sleep is huge. And I think if you're not tracking your sleep and the quality of sleep, I think you're leaving a very important component. It should be on the table. It should be important. It should be monitored. And you should know how good your sleep is. Trying to get it out. I'm struggling. The, you know, I wonder too, what is the, you touched on this. What are the two grams of gear? Is it halitestin? You know, there's a joke, but testosterone and, you know, MPP, obviously, are you having inflammation issues? Are you having any symptoms, any symptoms of, you know what, I just, I feel lethargic. I feel kind of beat up, that sort of thing. One of the comments I think Tanya said was, you know, you can't, if you can't progress on gear, there's a problem outside of the gear. And I agree. Yeah, you should sit on two grams. If you can't progress on two grams. Exactly. It's not a gear issue unless, like you said, it's not real. But even if it's not real, I mean, let's just say it's 50% and it's way underdose. You're still running a gram of gear. Something's wrong. So I wouldn't say go up. I don't know that I would be against going with GH, but I don't think it's going to be a game changer because your gains have kind of slowed down or plateaued. So I would take a look at the recovery, what's getting in the way recovery. And that comes back to the things you were mentioning as far as sleep and things of that. And what's your stress like? You know, what's your stress like? Financial situation, relationship situation, all those things. And a lot of people will say those are out of my control. They're not. That, you know, a lot of us to handle, we just go through the day and we're like, yeah, we'll deal with it. It'll get better tomorrow. And that's not exactly how you handle things like. Well, actually, to that point, I think, especially when it comes to sleep, giving your clients or giving yourself actionable steps, like instead of just saying, I'm going to try to get more sleep tonight. Okay, what does that mean? Like, does it mean in the course of your day, okay, if you go to bed at 1030 at night, lights out at 1030 at night, and you're only getting, say, six hours of sleep by the time you got to wake up, and you want to increase it by at least 30, maybe 40, probably 60 minutes, really, at another hour. So what does that mean in terms of your meal structure? What does that mean in terms of taking your shower or whatever your nighttime routine is? Like, build your nighttime routine out so you know, okay, 8 p.m., I need to go hop in the shower, and then by 8.15, I may be sitting down and reading to calm my body down. I've dimmed my lights in my house. I'm wearing blue light blocking glasses if I'm watching TV or playing with my phone. It might mean putting your phone away completely for an hour and a half before going to bed so you're not getting any of those types of stimulus, anything that's going to pique your brain interest and kind of get a rise out of you. It might mean, it probably means dropping the temperature in your house, at least your bedroom, to 63 degrees. So I'm talking about sleep hygiene stuff initially. Can I add one thing to that that I think is important? I apologize. And that is this. Even if you're not a reader, like, I don't read books. Just sit there and think and process your thoughts because if you don't do it and you're so busy during the day, what the hell you think you're going to be doing when you lie down at night? You're going to be, well, I can't turn my brain off. You didn't give yourself an opportunity to process all the things in your head until you lie down. And that's why you can't go to sleep. That's actually a really good point. I don't think I've ever heard anyone make it that way, Skip. Pretty profound sometimes. No, that is good because, like, everyone knows that, you know, you lay down and then you start decompressing your day or thinking about what you got to do the next day or, oh, I got to pay that tax bill by the end of this week. You're running through that list of things you got to do, and that's not the time to be doing it, right? I'm as guilty as anybody of that for sure because that's the only time that my life is just quiet. No one's talking to me. No emails. Like, none of that stuff because I'm guilty of that for sure. It just gave me an idea. Yeah, but it just gave me an idea. Like, I need to actually spend 10 minutes when I shut down my computer. All right, what are the things I need to write down to think about tomorrow? So unpacking them from my brain, I guess, is a good way to put it. Sure. So that I put them down somewhere that there I'm not going to forget them, but I don't need to be thinking about them when I go lay down. The other thing I was going to mention, because I just recently started, was using a CPAP machine. Do you guys use one? I don't. I do, yeah. I'm one of the few. Apparently, I never got big enough. Well, here's the thing. But I've not needed one. Here's the craziest thing, guys. Okay, so I was tested when I was in my 290s, my biggest, and there were no sleep issues. There were no sleep apnea issues. I got tested recently because I'm just like, man, I know my sleep quality is horrible. I know I need to increase the duration, but the quality is, I'm waking up every day thinking, man, I just can't wait to go to bed tonight, you know, which is a horrible thing to do, right? You don't want to feel that way. So I took the test, and I found that I had, you know, a bunch of episodes throughout the night. Did you? Okay. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, and so, you know, I'm at that point about two weeks in where I'm really getting used to it. It takes a little bit, doesn't it? The first time you use it, you use it for like 15 minutes, and you're just focused on breathing in and out because you're like, you're going to drown in all this air. And you're like, screw this. I'll try again tomorrow. And I think that's what you're supposed to do. You're gradually supposed to get more used to it, get better adjusted to it. And last night was the first night I think I slept with it for seven hours straight, which is great, right? Did you do this through, did you get your machine? ! D seuumumumumum, arthritis. seuum, arthritis. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu. seu So, okay, so let me unpack first. So based off of your sleep test, they put some primary adjustments to the machine when they send it to you. Got it. I also have one of those machines. It's an auto machine. So it auto adjusts to what you need as the night continues on. Yeah. But then I also purchased the plan where after two weeks you do a consult with the doctor to go over how it's going, what are the issues you're seeing, how can we adjust to make things more, you know, efficient. And usable for you. So I don't even know if I'm going to need that appointment based off of last night's sleep. So for me it was the anxiety of like just breathe in, breathe out, breathe in. And that was keeping me up longer than if I weren't wearing the damn thing. You know what I mean? So when I did it, Andrew, I had somebody, a technician came out to the house to actually set the machine up, show me how to use it and all that. And what she suggested doing was before you go to bed to practice with it, like sit at the couch while you're watching TV, put it on, and just get used to having it on while you're awake. I think that can be helpful. And then the other thing I noticed personally is I have to be settled. Like I can't, if I say, if I'm in bed, I'm getting ready to put my CPAP on, and then I realize, oh, shit, I forgot to do these things with the dishes and all that. I go, I get up, do this, do that, and then come back to bed. I throw the mask on. I'm kind of like my heart rate. It's really not the heart rate, but like my breathing's up a little bit, probably heart rate's up a little bit. And I'm not, I have to cool down first. You have to be in a real relaxed state to be able to comfortably keep it on. Otherwise, I'd get that panic. For me, same thing where the machine builds up over time, it's kind of lower pressure when I start. Yeah. So it's like you almost can't breathe if you're requiring too much, you know. Yeah. Like I keep going to the machine, like turning up a little bit more because I felt like I wasn't getting enough on the inspiration. And I'm sitting there like, really trying to breathe in. But then, and the other thing is, and I'm going to try this tonight, is wearing the nose strips to help open up, you know, your nostrils even more. It's like on the nose pillows. Yeah. I think, but I think what you said initially, you just got to get used to it. It just, I mean, think about it. You're putting something on your face that's not ever there at night and you're sleeping through it. Like you're trying to carry out a normal task with a new variable added in. Like anything, it's going to take, you know, a little bit of time. Like Skip, the first time your wife slept in bed with you, you know, you're probably like, who's this? What is she doing here? Yeah, I didn't know who it was. With me? That's how I was a little more time. No. I was actually thinking that you guys probably have far less sex than I do because I don't think that's very sexy. And I don't think my wife would be like, oh yeah, I got to have some of that. You got to put goggles on too. You got to put goggles on too. And then, oh, I'm talking an F1 pilot. Sit, you know. Dark later sex. It only works if you both have CPAPs. Eat your own CPAPs. Hey, Stefan, I wanted to back up just a little bit. He's kind of summing up what you said, Andrew, and I think this makes a lot of sense. He said creating a system for success. I got to tell you that Victoria really helped. My wife helped me really get into much better sleep hygiene. And a big part of it is that she's really strict with it. So I got on her schedule. So we have a point in the night where we're like, okay, it's time to be done with work. That's done now. I'm not on my phone. I'm not doing stuff. And then we have the point where now we are actually... Keep that stuff private. If she wants to hear that, okay? But we have a system. We turn the lights down at a certain time. And we're done having work conversations or conversations that like no politics after 730. Things are going to get us ramped up. We start looking at that as being like our pre-sleep time. And she's like, absolutely. I'm terrible with systems. She's great with systems. And what you're talking about is a system. And getting into that, man, has made a huge difference for me personally. Well, the rest of your day, think about it as a bodybuilder. You're highly structured. Why would you let that go at night? It's almost like, well, I'm done with all the crap. No, I'm not going to be structured. I mean, it's actually a bodybuilder coach and a YouTube creator. You're never really done anything. There's like when Rachel asked, when I come downstairs at like 830 or 9 o'clock when I'm kind of done at night, she's like, oh, you're all done for the day? I'm like, I'm done for now. Like, because I could go back upstairs and write two more programs and be up until 2 in the morning if I really wanted to capitalize on what I got waiting on my inbox. But like enough's enough for the day, right? Like I think that's when you're busy, that's the game you're playing. And when you work for yourself, there's two times when you're stressed as a business owner. Certainly when you don't have enough work, like that's definitely the case. It's actually the bigger case. But when you have too much work and it's like you almost get comfortable with that stress because you just know there's always a fire that you need to put out. I got to get back to these people, my check-ins. I got to start these new people that I promised I'd get them done by the date three days ago. I've got to come up with some ideas for the next video. Whatever it is, there's always work to be done when you're trying to create something for yourself. I know, I don't think you guys have this, but I was far more stressed with business back in the day, raising four kids. It's like, you know what, you're not the only one going without food here if shit don't go right. You got kids that will be like, I've had ramen for five days in a row. I'm kidding. All this going back to the guy who was on the two grams. I'll tell you what, back to this topic being rest, recovery, I've always known that. We've all always known that. We've heard it. But I can say the first time that I saw a massive difference was working with one of my local competitors, Javier is his name, and he was a great state-level men's physique competitor. Really bright guy, too. All natural, competed in men's physique. We probably did, I think, about like four or five shows together. And year one, we learned how to get him in shape. Did fantastic, by the way. He's not big enough to do well at the national level, but he could get like a state championship. In fact, I'd love to show you guys his pictures later. He looks really good. So we do really well the first year. The second year is much like the first year. It might even have been the third year was much like the first and second year. And now keep in mind, he is a busy guy. He worked as a nurse. He worked with open-heart surgery patients that just got out of the operating room, had to stabilize them, keep them steady and all that. So he decides on this particular prep, after we've worked together several times, he is going to go back to school to become an anesthesiologist. Real bright guy. And so now he got switched to a night shift at work. He's going to school during the day. And he decided, you know what? I'm going to do a prep again. We do the prep. And let me tell you guys, like he went from being one of those guys that could diet on carbs all the way in to being like we had to go down to carbs and fats. Excuse me, proteins and fats. And then more cardio. And then protein only. And then like we grinded him. And he still got in good shape. He did really well. I think he won his class but didn't win the overall that year. He looked really good. He wasn't quite as lean. Like we went for a little bit more fullness that year because that was the only, that was the play we had. And still really good condition. But he, yeah, it was that year that I really saw how big of a difference because then he did it again later. Guess what? Back to normal. Yep. Nurse anesthesiologist? Yeah. I tell you, starting off at about two and a half, two thirds. Oh, he's doing all right. He's doing all right. It's worth it. It's worth it. He's a smart guy too. You have to be. That is a, oh yeah. That is a brutal program. Imagine being in that program working as a nurse and also competing. Yeah. On the night shift. I honestly, and I'm sure you probably told him, this might be a little too many full plates here, bro. There's a lot of full plates. Yeah, but it's for sure. It just tells me the guy's a doer. Like he's not a complainer. He's not an excuse guy. Yeah. I mean, it reminds me of my 20. He tells me a single too. Yeah. No, he probably had like three kids. He probably had three kids the whole time. No, he didn't. I think he was single at the time, but shortly after not. Oh, he's married now. Guaranteed. Yeah. I mean, come on. Yeah. Somebody landed that prize. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But anyway, to bring it back to the topic or the question that this gentleman had, I think he needs to look at the other variables. And we'll first answer the first question I had. How long you been on the cycle? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If it's been, you know, 25 to 30 weeks, I would pull off the gear. That's probably the reason, right? Just the law of diminishing returns. You don't go like this with progress, you know? But then if it's not, then I would really look at these other variables. You know, how is your training? Are you working hard? Right. You know, are you doing too much? Are you doing six days a week, doing drop sets every single day, training every body part twice a week? Like, is that something you're doing? Are you under eating? You know, are you trying to stay super, super, super lean all the time, not bring your calories up, not cycling your calories? There's just so many variables. And this is honestly, this is why this is.  hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi come down and all of a sudden the progress that he was missing while he was on cycle he's getting on TRT people think this is not common it is common it absolutely can happen i think a little i think people don't think it's common or people are like nah that's kind of in my imagination until they see it number of times number of cycles and then if you're a coach and you see it with like your athletes a bunch of times over and over again but i think people are just like nah like this this can't i must be imagining things or the drugs must really still be in my system or something to that effect you know yeah all right well i uh i hope he figures it out let us know what he comes up with we've got a bunch more listener questions there was one about it was kind of a funky question because he said well yeah i got a question or i got a thing yeah i don't know if you guys be interested in this what if we send him back a thing saying diet training everything and just for him we break it down on the show for an episode i'm totally go over these very that'd be cool dude because we did this with phil on on a different podcast uh viz um yeah this is this is where that we but we broke down everything about the guy's training program diet cardio you know everything and we came up with some reasons for why things weren't going a certain direction so i think this might be i love that idea yeah you might get some free coaching out of it buddy i love that idea i think everybody would learn from that too yeah you know i think that's a good idea what you can't you get three coaches in one for free give me a break all of a sudden the questions are gonna come i'm gonna blow up in the comments what about my point exactly i got this going on what do you think he's not even a patreon guy either all right oh you gotta become a patreon customer yeah he will after that after 20 years bodybuilding experience plus coaching countless athletes i have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to dry wall paste consistency so when i say that i trust true nutrition i mean it in fact true nutrition is one of the few companies that i trust and trust in this industry well it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot yeah i see you out there what makes true nutrition different you get to pick your base i'm a big fan of the way iso you get to pick your flavor i like the cookie butter lately you can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts it's basically like the supplement version of qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning oh my god my insides are on plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies you can cut out the middleman and go straight to the source no proprietary blend nonsense they're third-party tested and in-house tested as well there's no guessing games it's literally just gains in a bag if you want protein you can trust go to true nutrition.com and use our code think after 20 years of bodybuilding coaching and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes believe me when i say this is the good stuff um ex-american says tren or winstrel which one would you consider has is less bad for you in general deciding which i will add in for the last five ish weeks of my just look super sexy for my 50 51st birthday my first thought was at both at uh typical um more is better logic dosing but uh after my current extended duration cycle um turned my blood into greece i've reconsidered um and adjusted my doses uh to more of a live to 51 type of dose i was on 750 test 400 EQ 350 deca for 12 weeks when my last labs came back um i've cut that in half of my plan on he plans on cruising um at this level until june 11th um i've been stage shredded before this time i'm looking for that little bit of extra help at the end what do you guys say man if his if you've got bad labs i don't feel comfortable saying do this you know what i'm saying i would tell him it's june 11th is his birthday i i would pull off for a while get super healthy and then do whatever you know skip's gonna say to do but just i'm just saying my advice first is like and honestly you know the jason lowe thing really i think hit our community pretty hard over the last couple months and like i i immediately told all my clients over 35 males i'm like we need to get an echocardiogram and we need to do a calcium score you know it's one of those things that i would tell my guys in their 40 45s like we need to get this done i'm bringing it down to 35 now maybe even younger if you have a history of using gear for 10 plus years already sure um and then when i hear that he's already kind of and we all do it kind of laughing off in a sense like some poor labs like i'll just lower the dose a little bit i don't know man like i want to see you make it to like 81 not just 51 so i would definitely get those let you know have a competent coach or a doctor look at those labs probably pull the cycle off you got plenty of time before june 11 maintain your condition and then you can add some goodies back in over the last eight weeks and you're going to be fresh on the way in that's just you can still get lean in the process too yes like he doesn't need to put his plans on hold yeah i just give this i i would just want to make sure that you didn't excuse me go what are his labs like i i know so he didn't tell us exactly what it was he just said that his blood was i'm guessing he means it's thick he said his blood is something about uh blood cycle turned my blood into grease when you see i'm saying like kind of joking around about it but it's like you're not 22 you're not no that's true right you're you know i'm i gotta be careful what do you first i'm going to say that your your advice is perfect and it's what i would say too but let's assume just for the sake of the topic that he's not going to do that so and and i know i know it's it's kind of tough because it's like oh god now skip's given you know i can hear the viewers now you're skips giving advice and not tell him to come out no i'm i'm saying exactly what you say yeah but again we do know that those people and we've all done it that if he's going to stay on because he wants to be looking bad look when you get older i can relate to this your birthdays are things that you're going to go do when you're older for some reason you just it's more important that you're in shape probably because you're older i i just that's something that i know i think and i have purposely continued to cycle because oh well i'm going to the arnold i don't want to come off two two months before and not be motivated or anything like that that's just an example so yeah if he's going to do that i and this is what i'm wondering i think it's important what those labs are let's say he's elevated his hematocrit is elevated how much is it elevated what does everything else look like compared to the hematocrit is everything else pretty much in line but you think well my blood is more viscous because it's higher and let's be fair i'm not telling people to do this but i'm just being honest and being transparent i believe that numbers and i'm going to get destroyed for this that numbers run higher with hematocrit are not the concern that they were or we thought they were say 15 years ago that's a fair statement okay cool so far i have you on my back but let me just add one thing do you think it's just hematocrit RBC that's high because rarely do i see just those things on a cycle that he mentioned 750 tests um certain amount of deca a certain amount of EQ i believe it's what 1.3 grams somewhere around there i think yeah does that sound right scott one and a half 1.3 is that right total sorry i was trying to figure something out it sounds like it's in there it's about 1.3 i missed it i wasn't listening 1.3 grams 51 years of age what was he using it was 750 test 400 EQ 350 deca but he said he's now cut that in half okay that'd be that as it may cutting it in half and still having other androgens beside testosterone in the system are going to be having causing some issues on other lab markers and could be yeah it could be how long has the cycle been what kind of condition is he in i mean there you know there's variables there too but it's going to be hard to get hematocrit down you know what i mean like unless you bring it all the way down like 300 tests yeah that yeah you're not going to get your hematocrit back down very easily staying elevated but what is it is it yeah 52 right i'm just saying what elevation does he live at sure parameters change i mean just i'm not even concerned about the hematocrit RBC at this point really i'm just saying if that if that's elevated but and i just know a cycle like that for the majority the vast majority of people HDL is going to be riding low LDL is going to be high hs-CRP is going to be up other markers um you know could could be way off i'm just worried about that and worried about and keep in mind he's got 18 weeks from this weekend from from today actually before his birthday  I think there's more than enough time there to come back to true TRT, get completely healthy, and then run like an eight to 10 week cycle into his, his, his event or his birthday. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. I don't look any different than he would, but be a lot healthier than he would, but be a lot healthier than he would have been. It, you know, over the stretch. That's that's all I'm saying. You understand though, why I asked it. I mean, I said, I said, I'm not trying to be honest. People that are going to say, ah, fuck you guys. What are you. Yeah, I've been doing this for years. I know what I'm doing. My body can take it. I get it. 100%. I'm a lot more cautious right now. I'm a lot more cautious. I think I'm a lot more. Now, like, let's piggyback off what we did earlier. Okay, just for fun. Whoever it is, and I'm not gonna put you guys on the spot. I'll just say, you can send me the blood work. I'm not a medical professional, and I'm not pretending to be one on the internet. But I will take a look at your blood work. If you want someone to look at it. And if you guys want to, that's cool. If you don't, I'm just I'm offering that I will look at it. And I'll be honest, because I'm old like you are. I'm actually older than 50 or 50. We want to live to 51. So I'm assuming that he's 50. Yeah. Yeah. I just I'm curious now because you may well be right. Don't get me wrong. I would agree that the vast majority of people probably have other markers that are that might be out of range. But to what degree and what are they? I'm curious. I guess the other thing is, if he was on the cycle that was listed, he wasn't on it for three weeks, and then suddenly got laps. And he was probably on for minimum 10 weeks before he got he said 12 weeks. 12 weeks. Okay, thank you. And he did say, he did make the comparison that his blood was like grease. So that would imply that the numbers are high, maybe not egregious, but high. Yeah, yeah. So I mean, I'm not going to say that I swing pendulum between healthy and unhealthy. I think I've always aired with one foot more on the let's find the healthiest way to do this. Yes. So I'm Aaron on the side of health right now. You know, I just don't want to have I don't have people on my roster die. I'm just very 100% with you. Yeah. Yeah. And what I was looking up that I was trying to see if so I had my first calcium score done. You know, they say like, I think it's like around 50 that you're supposed to get one. Is that what it is? Or is it 45? I can't remember. I don't know. But I'm with you. Okay, I'm with you, Andrew, that it makes sense as gear users to get them earlier. And it's not something what I wanted to let everybody know is it's not something that you need to get your doctor's like prerequisite for whatever. It's an out of pocket thing, at least for me, where I went, and I was looking to see for the national place and it's not. I paid 100 or $120. It was one of those two. You too. You know, but it may give you a it may give you a red flag to tell you like, hey, I need to quit or I need to back off or like you said, man, adjust something because we've lost listeners to, you know, Jason was AI'd consider him to be a friend of the shows. Everybody who listens to the shows knew who he was. And it's it's not just him, you know, that we've lost over the years. Yeah, you know, you know, and even if you your doctor won't order. That's what I'm saying. I don't think you have to. You can go straight to the imaging place. A lot of people, they want to try to get it covered by insurance, which, you know, great. But so I have insurance, Andrew, and they just said, no, we're just out of pocket. But here's why they said no, because your demographic group at your age right now, it's not something that unless you walk in and you say, hey, I've been very hard of breathing lately. My dad, my father died of heart disease at a young age. I'm a little worried right now because you got to kind of put the idea into their head like it's their idea to order it. So, yeah, you know, patient exhibiting signs and symptoms consistent with congestive heart disease or advanced heart disease. I think we need to order this insurance. We'll cover that. Right. But if you go in there saying, hey, I want you to order me an echo. I want you to order me this. They're going to be like, piss off. Like, I'm the doctor here. I know more than you. And it's still only one hundred and twenty dollars. That's what I was going to say. I like my last calcium. So bucks. And then you can get the echo done at the same place for two fifty. OK, nice. Out of pocket for me. Like you're going to spend two fifty on a couple bottles of gear. Like I found an echo is easier to get and you can get that written. No, I found for my insurance will cover that and I can get one done with my physical, actually. And that's the reason it's part of my physical. But with the calcium score insurance often doesn't cover calcium score tests because they aren't part of standard universally accepted screening guidelines and are considered elective by many payers. Yeah, there's that. Yeah. So typically the echo is harder to get, though. Is it? Yeah. Experience with clients. And yeah, I mean, even just this week, I had three guys that I'm like, you need to get this done if we're going to stay working together. And and they said the doctor said no. And I'm like, we got to look for out of pocket then. You know, it's not expensive. It's I mean, put it this way. What would you do to how much would you spend to buy an extra 30 years of life? Possibly 20 years of life. More than 250. More than 250. Right. You're going to spend you're going to waste that on coffee this year alone. You're going to waste that on. I don't know. And then when you get to my age, it'd be worth it for a year. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. No. All right. Good take home stuff. I'm just going to run through. See what else we have here. So there's that guy with the diminishing returns from gear. We've done this before. But real quick, is there a ratio for test D to mass D that we would suggest? I mean, I feel like it's all over the spectrum. Yeah. Are we talking about are we walking into a show? We're trying to have show condition because that ratio might be like 50 tests to 100 mass, you know, or are we talking in the offseason where you're using it as a primary driver for growth? And it's probably more like a two to one or maybe 1.5 to one in the offseason. So it's it's really hard to say it's based off your goal and the look you're trying to achieve at that point. All right. Kind of follow up from UCSuma. He's tough. He says topic for the next show. What skews health markers more gear or diet? If someone's diet is immaculate, couldn't they run? Longer and larger cycles. Also, could someone run higher cycles with less negative health implications? They're great questions, but there's so many variables. Yeah. There were a lot of people that liked that one, too. Like there's people that want to hear the answer to that. You know, I'd like to hear the answer to that. Yeah, really? I'll jump in and I'll say this. If you're taking gear and you're going to take it for any length of time, my opinion is that you better have as many other variables in your life controlled and as healthy as possible. From your diet to cardio. Training is not cardio. You haven't trained with them all yet. It's not usually cardio. It's not going to be all that healthy compared to cardio from a heart standpoint. You know, you get into other things like smoking, drinking, your diet. Stress. Is your career stressful? Is your marriage stressful? Do you have financial stress? Stress, again, like we were talking about earlier with sleep, is highly underrated or getting in the way of progress and how you are metabolically, whether you can get leaner, whether it impacts your sleep, quite frankly. So, I would say this, you are going to be able to get away, I think most people will be able to get away with more or, I hate to use the word gamble, but use more gear if you have everything else in line and you're doing the best you can with everything else. But the other end of that coin is, if you're maximizing every other variable to the max, do you need more gear to continue? Sure, sure. You know what I'm saying? And it comes down to compounds, it comes down to how long you're on, there's a lot, the hereditary predisposition, there's a lot. Well, then also the individual genetics in terms of the detoxification and processing of drugs. Like, I mean, we all have stories of clients we've worked with where they ran a heavy cycle, contest prep cycle or whatever, and we look at the labs like a week later and we're like, okay, I know your drugs weren't fake, but bro, your drugs look like they were fake based off your labs. Like they just don't have anything off, you know? So there's so many individual factors, you know? And I'm kind of fighting for an answer because of that, you know what I mean? So that's why it's kind of tough to, there's just a lot going on. It's a great question, but hard to answer. Years ago, I read about this guy. He lived 122, okay? Started smoking cigarettes at the age of like 12 or 13. Years ago.  He quit at the age of 90 to try to live a healthier life to try to maybe make it to 100. The guy lived to 100. The guy lived to 12. He did not get a speck of cancer. They didn't do anything to his lungs. He smoked a pack a day from like 12 years old until he was like 90. How many packs is that? 200,000? It's some ridiculous number, you know? So it's like everyone just has different ways that they process things like genetically. That's funny you say that I had a grandmother who passed away only. I had a grandmother who passed away about five or six years ago. I had a grandmother who passed away about five or six years ago. And she was like 92, drove until she was 90, 91, smoked from like 10 years old to the point where her walls when we took the pictures down. Left the... Yep, it sure did. Like tar and you could smell it even after they painted it, redid the carpet and everything. But the woman did not die from cancer. Wow. Wow. Matter of fact, she quit. Her doctor told her to quit about two years before she passed away. She quit. She got hives, broke out from allergic reaction because her body was so used to it that the doctor laughed and said, I have to tell you to go back to smoking. And she went back to it and went away. Yeah. There's something iconic. It's crazy. It's just crazy how that there's that hereditary predisposition or I'm really hoping I have her cancer gene or lack of because I probably will be good then for a while. Isn't there something? And I think you got to be born somewhere between like 1960 to maybe 1985, 1990. There's something iconic because everyone has a grandmother that's like 75 years old who just chain smoked cigarettes. Yeah. Like, hey, real raspy voice. Oh, yeah. Like, your house smells a little bit like cigarettes. Yeah. You know, like. Yeah. Then there was my grandma who ended up getting lung cancer. She never smoked a day in her life, but my grandpa did. So that's what I'm saying. So that's like, how unfair is that? It's just the genetic predisposition. You know, my grandma was awesome, too. She was. You guys would have liked her. She would have given you shit, Skip. My grandma gave me shit. They'd have probably gotten along and been friends. Two more things. I wanted to really quick you really quickly because I told you guys I wanted to show you guys have years back. That guy I was telling you about. So this was the year that he this is. So keep in mind, he's natural, right? Natural men's physique competitor. This is the year that we like struggled to get him in shape. This is what he ended up bringing. Here's here. I think after the tan. So we like we had to frickin grind to get that. He like wasn't as you don't have that like the grainy thing that you can get out of somebody. We didn't get as much of that this year. Yeah. But I'm sure that went great under the lights. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Here's the front shot that this is tell you to you're brave, dude, for putting up your photo, your photo thing on the end and just clicking random pictures. Or is this this from Facebook? Oh, I thought it was from your photo album. I'm like, bro, like, no, these are public. I can't do that. Yeah. Yeah, I was I was really proud of him, too. But that that was the frickin hardest prep. And one other thing we wanted to make sure we got in, Skip, you kind of had we're not going to say a redaction, but there were some words said on the previous episode. Oh, yeah. Regarding Rich Kaspari. And you wanted to clear the air on that. Yeah. And I don't know if it'll clear the air, but it sounded like based on the comment that I was. Like I disrespected Rich, I think, was the implication or what was inferred. No, it was implied inferred. There's sometimes those two are confusing. But anyway, I don't hear. I was called a coward for not giving the details of the situation when I said I don't have a lot of respect for Rich Kaspari. There's more to the story than that. The Cliff Notes version is I had a lot of respect for when I was younger. I had his pictures up on my refrigerator. My mom hated it. Had an opportunity to do or was offered a business opportunity from him. You had your picture on your mom's refrigerator, you mean? Yes. Yes. Okay. Yeah. If I said something else, thank you for catching that. But yeah, I'm on my mom's refrigerator. Yeah. But I had an opportunity to do business with him. And the long and the short of it is I'm not going to get into the details because it doesn't matter. I don't need to explain the reasons. It's funny how people who don't know you sometimes feel this entitlement like you need. They need to have the details of a situation when you say something. I didn't see anything that I feel was shitty or disrespectful about Rich. Rich. I said that I don't have that very much respect for him. I didn't say why and I don't need to. But it was a business opportunity that I didn't think was handled very professionally. That's the bottom line. I didn't say that initially, but I'll say it now. But that's as far as I'm going to go. I don't think that makes me a coward. I think what it says is sometimes people like this guy probably has Rich up on a pedestal for whatever reason. That's fine. I did, too. But much like myself or you guys, not everybody's going to like you. Not everyone's going to have a positive interaction or, you know, I could be a super. I think I am a super nice guy. But I'm sure there are people out there. You know what? I met him once. He just kind of blew me off or he was an ass. OK, I'm sorry for that. That's not how I am. I had that interaction. I had that situation with Rich. I lost respect for the guy. I didn't think he was very professional. That's it. That's all there is to it. And I don't think that this one comment in particular, the guy making that comment, I don't think it was a fair comment because I don't have to explain what the situation was or why I don't respect him. Bottom line. Fair enough. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for being here. And check out our advertisers if we still have them after the show. Maybe we're just going to talk to them. Exactly. It will not be Gaspari Nutrition probably. Yeah. Definitely, though, check out supplementsource.ca for Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. And thank you to True Nutrition. Use our code THINK over there. And yeah, for another episode of Blood, Sweat & Gear, we'll see you soon. Go to bodyberry.com to reach out to Andrew. Team Skip to reach out to Skip. Hit me up at gmail.com. Or Rich, you can just email me at teamskip1 at gmail.com. Ha ha ha.