That's big business. You know, these factories that make these rules in China don't they're not there to make steroids for us, dumb they're making it for big farmer. Um, so yeah, I you know, is is there going to be an issue with the pharmaceutical industry getting hit hard with Harris? Potentially. Yeah. Is your TRT test going to go up? What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McN. All of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave. If you're in the UK and if you're on cycle, then you should definitely be doing your labs. And if you're in the UK, then you can do your labs with Dave. We are brought to you by trunition.com. Use our code think over there for high quality thirdparty tested supplements. I just got some cookie butter protein. Got the the pure weight isolate. Uh, check it out. Great flavor and uh, you know, basically wholesale pricing. Uh, use our code think over there. Of course, supplements.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change from week to week. Just check them out. If you're in Canada, go over there and see if they've got I guarantee you they got something that you want. It's only going to be like 10 or 15 bucks, which is unheard of today in the world of supplements. And Strongports Nutrition. Go over to strongsports.com and you can get some great health stacks. If you're on cycle and you're in the UK, you're going to need to hit up Strong. Dave, what's going on, man? The last episode, the last couple episodes have been doing really well, dude. People have been engaging with them. Thank you guys for all your comments. Uh, it's it's things are going good, man. People are enjoying the show. I know. It's just I just remembered something. Oh, so I'm writing it down. Dave also warned me too, guys. He was like, "Listen, I haven't made any coffee at all today. I'm running on zero caffeine and there's going to be more yawning than usual." Which there's generally a pretty good amount of yawning, so it's going to I don't what it I think it's just time of day. You know, I just get to this time during the day and it's like I need a nana nap. Morning for me, mid-afternoon for you. Um, we did want to talk about the last couple shows. Before we did though, I had something that I wanted to ask you your thoughts on. Of course, this is just opinion. Listeners, I want to hear what you've heard, too. Are tariffs going to affect underground gear? Are tariffs going to affect raw compounds from China? Like, what's what are we dealing with here? It's not as big of a problem for you in the UK, but here in the US, tariffs are kind of putting everything on its head right now, you know? So there's there's there's there's actually I mean UGL roars they're illegal products sold under the black market. There's there's no tariffs, you know what I mean? It just doesn't exist. But China also is one of the biggest producers of raw pharmaceutical powders for the pharmaceutical industry as well. Of course. Yeah. And that's big business. You know, these factories that make these raws in China don't they're not there to make steroids for us. dumbass law. Yeah, they're making it for big farmer. Um, so yeah, I you know, is is there going to be an issue with the pharmaceutical industry getting hit hard with tariffs? Potentially. Yeah. Is your TRT test going to go up? There there's a possibility. Um, I mean, I don't know how significant Chinese raw import is in the pharmaceutical world, but considering the size and number of factories they have, I suspect it is rather decent. I would too. I I'm going to do a search. Um, how uh how how we word this? Um, how big what percentage of pharmaceutical roses are produced in China? There you go. Okay. Yeah. Hold on. All right, let's see what we got here. Okay, there's mainly just articles. Nothing is just jumping out. What percentage of drugs? How about that? Oh, this doesn't sound Oh, no way. Um, so this is obviously just a a quick little uh blurb on uh Google. says, "US pharmaceutical production estimates that 54% um use manufacturer finished pharmaceuticals consumed in the United States are produced in China." Okay. Oo, that's No, no, no, no, wait, wait, wait. Uh, consumed in the US are produced here. Where's here? It says only 6% are sourced in China. That doesn't sound right. You do a search, Dave. You see what you come up with. I'd be curious. Oh, okay. Yeah, I got a graph here. I got a chart. Um, the USP medicine supply map an analysis chart shows that India is 48%, China is 13%, the US is 10%. So, it's saying that India is bigger all around. Okay. Why aren't we getting our RAWs from India then? Like do they maybe they have different reg I mean we're just I'm shooting from the hip here Dave. I literally don't know but are they looser with their regulations in China because we did you know we just talked the other week about how there's these mom and pop hormone producers that were all shut down in China recently. Uh maybe they just had loose regulations though and they were able to get away with it. You know, I've always found um that what happens, right? Okay. So, APIs are what is active pharmaceutical ingredients. Okay. China makes 40 to 50% of the world's APIs and 70 to 80% of the global generic drugs. Huh. Zionic in the live stream says a different number. He says 20% of global APIs. Huh. But I Hey, 20 to 40% either way is a lot, I guess. But it's not as big as I thought. Do you know what I mean? Right. So, the USA FDA has reported that about 13% of its registered API manufacturers are based in China. That's only part of the picture because many non US drug companies rely heavily on Chinese ingredients. Sure. Supplement industry, I'm sure, as a whole. You know, over 90% of antibiotics such as penicellin and its derivatives come from China. Great. So, we're screwed. We're screwed. Don't get sick, people. That's the key. So, yeah, it would would look like there's there's quite a significant level of raw production. Um, I think the issue is complete drugs. I don't think China have a huge share of the market, but ingredients for drugs they appear to have. Yeah. So, okay, I talked to a couple sources today. Uh, well, I spoke to one today. client of mine spoke to another yesterday uh and and I just spoke to a supermod from a major source forum who is uh going to dig into this. He's getting some more information. He's talking to a big supplier. Um I I I heard a mixed message. Number one, a highlevel uh underground or generic growth distributor in the US has said that they are unable to get supplies due to tariffs. they're closed down for the next two weeks. I don't understand. And that's what led me to dig into this. Uh I spoke to another source, just a source of all products, and he had said, "No, man." He was like, "There's no reason, just as you said, Dave, because this is an underground market. Uh they're not if they're not going through like normal custody chains, right? So unless unless the the manufacturing process has somehow been impacted. So China's just not making as much of the [\h__\h] you know, and it's got nothing to do with the fact of getting the [\h__\h] here. It's just the fact that they they're not making as much. I don't know. But my understanding was for a lot of this there were a few large manufacturers that provided raw anabolics for the black market but there were literally thousands of agents. Yeah. Yeah. So speaking that would represent and this seems to be a Chinese thing where someone will will act as an agent for several companies selling all sorts of mad and wonderful [\h__\h] I mean, I remember speaking to a supplier years ago about medical equipment, um, Chinese agent, and it was like, oh, well, if you want this, I also represent this company, and I also, it's like, it's just a one-man shop. But he didn't work for any of the companies. He would just go to them with, I've got a customer that wants XY Z. What price can you give me on this? And then come back to the customer and go, it's going to cost X amount. And he's put his bit on top. Wow. and and and that seemed to be a very common way of of the Chinese trading outside of the country in that Yeah. people would have regular jobs and then they would do brokerage on the side. Yeah. For for numerous things. Um, and the anabolic scene seems to be very much the same way in that cuz I know when I've ordered peptides and I order my peptides for what I use personally direct from China and I'll say, you know, can I get this, this, and this? And she said, right, I'll have to pop by the factory tomorrow and see where I can sort. So, it's like, well, you obviously don't work there. So just I spoke speaking to the same superm mod and this was in regard to our episode that came out recently uh with Tim uh from Australia. You know we did have feedback where people are like oh man this is completely bull that all the gear is good nowadays. And uh speaking to uh this guy the supermod who's longtime veteran you know and and has a a good inside pitch. he had said. So on the note, and this kind of tied in with the primo issues that we had, there were a series of shutdowns that happened. And the way he said this worked out was that there were a lot of smaller mom and pop uh raw producers that had been shut down. And he said that a lot of these places, they they weren't operating under normal guidelines when the Chinese government looked into it. He's like, they couldn't even locate a lot of these companies. So they literally just went town to town and started tracking these people down and shutting facilities down. As a result, it did create kind of a you know a um a bottleneck or a a reduction in in production. So we're kind of hearing some different stuff. You know, you heard the story about the bad Primo and that being the cause. I'm hearing that there were shutdowns. Whatever the case, as a result, Primo production is lower, you know, or or Primo on the enduser market is lower right now. Um, it's still available. Um, there have been some issues. A major uh company in the US, I think they're actually, sorry, international, but a a a company that supplies end users um you know, checks all their stuff. They do a really good job, but apparently they got hit because with a lot of these companies that were these smaller companies that were shut down, they've sent out basically bunk stuff to try to recoup some of their losses. So, you know, we had a listener on Patreon who just was on Blood, Sweat, and Gear, and he was like, "Hey, I'm taking test and primo. My estrogen looks like this. It's out of control. What do you guys think the deal is?" And Andrew said, "Yeah, I think that your primo might be fake." you know. Anyway, it turns out he finds out he sent it out to Janoshik and it was it was completely fake and and that was an issue with this major supplier. Uh and it turns out that they got hit. So, information is out on a company called Gino. We'll just leave it at that. That uh they they got hit, you know, and everybody who purchased the bad stuff, they're getting recouped and all that, but you know, it does happen basically. Yeah, there was there was four or five labs hit with bad roars in the UK, all from the same manufacturer. They were all using the same supplier. Um I know one lab just seeks trading completely. They just like they've lost all faith in being able to get legit gear. I think the others have traded through it, but yeah, there was I believe there was four or five clubs affected with with a um well, I don't even think it was a bad batch. I think it was it was several roars that were doing weird [\h__\h] H really? Yeah. So the prima was causing horrendous PIP and infections and all sorts of problems and then the test was doing weird stuff and and yeah, there was about four or five different types of anabolics that seem to be affected some to a lesser or more tolerable degree than others. Um but um yeah, I mean it seems to have been resolved that one now, but I'm not sure what the current state of play is. That's it. I think the market is pretty good overall. So I don't want to just slant it as in you know that there that you've got a you know it's not like a Russian roulette. Uh I think when you're getting gear like there's a lot of good stuff out there in the market, but I you know I I so overall I think that we're good. Um, we did The other thing is as well, sorry, can I just jump? Yeah. Yeah. Um, and this is no no attack on anyone. I've known labs just simply [\h__\h] up where they've labeled test prop as test, you know, or or vials have got mixed up. I know a lab that pushed a load of fem test out as test. Got them mixed up, put the wrong bloody labels on it. It was all sorted. But accidents do genuinely just happen as well. Um, so there is that side of things as well. And going back to Tim, um, he's in Australia. Yeah, they got to get rough over there. Yeah, steroid supply is difficult over there. It's not easy to get gear. There is a lot of crap about in that marketplace because of the difficulty getting the drug. Um there's not a huge amount of homegrown suppliers and penalties are particularly harsh if you get caught. Um so as a result it does open the market up to people to abuse it because people can't get it. So you know people will sell all sorts of crap. Yeah. So I don't think Australia would be a fair representation of the quality of gear that says in the States or UK. I think the quality in both those scenarios would be higher. Canada as well. I'd put them right up there. They have the same laws as you guys where, you know, personal possession is is, you know, is as okay. Hey guys, Future Scott here editing the show. Listen, I want to make sure we are abundantly clear. The gear market is going to be just fine. Don't fall victim to fear-mongering. I saw a source post this week that Primo's unavailable and mast is next. uh you know, we're heading into hard times, but thankfully we have ample supplies. You know, get your supplies while they last. And it's it's uh you know, a marketing tactic oldest time. I promise you guys, the market is going to be just fine. So, please don't spend more than your means. And, you know, focus on your training and your diet. Those are really the things that are going to make the difference. Uh also, while I got you here, if you haven't liked the show, then please hit the like button and leave us a comment for the next one. You know, questions, all that stuff. Let me know what you think of this episode. So anyway, uh we do have a bunch of listener questions, guys. And uh as I was saying, we had a lot of really great feedback on the last episode, but we it was interesting to me to hear cuz I thought this might happen. I was kind of like I was like, I don't know how people are going to take this show cuz we, you know, our topic was minimal effective dose to make cycle like gains. And I think most people got it, but we did have a couple people that were like, "Oh my gosh, man. You're telling me 250 test is the minimum to make, you know, cycle gains." Like, I really like your show, but I don't agree with you guys. And it it's just an interesting place because 20 years ago, it would have been said that 500 was the absolute minimum. Don't even mess around. You know what I mean? And and now it has swung so far back. So, I can't complain that people are low dosing. We had another guy Dave who was like 40 to 60 Anavar cuz I think I mentioned that that was in the study Scott Stevenson showed us that that was like the high-end like maximum effective dosing where you're going to get the most amount of progress. This guy said 40 to 60 Anavar. How many weeks on that before your kidneys fall out and I'm thinking like oh my gosh like are we in a world now where 40 to 60 VAR is which it's high dose you know but it's not in my opinion on my experience. I I would say hundreds high dose. Yeah I would agree. I'm with you 100% on that man. Um I would say 40 to 60 sort of 30 to 60 is where your dosing would be if you want it to have a decent effect. Yeah. Um, yeah, it's I mean a lot of it's down to individual personal experience, isn't it? But, um, I mean, it used to be the start cycle was 40 to 500 milligrams. That's it. Done deal. Any lower you don't bother with. People have have accepted. What I find ironic as well is you've got somebody who feels that 250 MIG is a not a high dose, but not a low dose when it comes to testosterone. Yeah. And yet you've got TRT clinics in the state dosing people at two to 300 megaby. 300. Yeah. Yeah. No, I I'm with you, you know, 100%. There's a certain confusion there, isn't there? I mean, it's like, well, which is it? I think part of it too that's changed has been the the user has also changed. the demographic of people who are using has broadened you know uh years ago when we talked about the 500 test or nothing like everybody who was using was generally not always but generally more advanced a lot of people were competing a lot of people were really pushing pushing uh and they had been in this game for a long time you know I talked to I got one thought Dave on your phone I'm just trying to re trying to remember what I'm going to say without forgetting it go on okay and and I because I spoke to Steve at one point about this. You know, he had put out a video where he said five milligrams of Anavar is all you need. I'm like five, you know, and and like I said, we looked at this research, 40 to 60, I think 60 was the high-end dosing of like maximum gains. And but Steve's perspective was this. He was like, "Yeah, man, but a lot of the people who are watching this stuff on YouTube, they're not that highlevel bodybuilder. These guys are guys that are on TRT. They're looking for a little additional boost." Yeah, dude. They'll feel 5 milligs of Anafar. You know what I mean? Like you'll get some pumps from it. You'll probably get some level of benefit. Morale will be better. Strength may go up, but it's a different story to actually growing new. Oh, the key word tissue that that was what I was going to sort of touch on. Do you think that people's expectations or what they feel is viable or realistic from a cycle has lowered? Huh? Yeah. I don't know. So, going back to when I was cutting my teeth. So, we're talking 34 years ago. So, like the 90s, are we talking? We're talking like the 90s. Yeah, we're talking the late 80s, early 90s. Wow. Yeah, old [\h__\h] I know. Dave was a young buck back then. Yeah, Scott was already 30 back then. I was, man. I remember was a good good era, you know. Thinking about settling down at that point, you know. Now I I worked at a gym. Don't my name gym. I worked at Maloney gym. Um I Oh, you got kicked out of Maloney eventually from what I heard. Yes, I did. I heard that story. But I I started there when I was 16 behind the counter. Okay. just I was just left school, you know, waiting to go to college and all that sort of stuff. And okay, and so I worked there and when the guys that came in, now these guys were competitive, but when the guys came in that did cycles and we were still very much, you know, cycle PCT back then. Yeah, there was a dramatic change in their appearance when they went on cycle. They grew. They look significantly bigger. They look significant different. Yeah. I would have said that's not as reflective now. Hm. So I I am curious as to you know do people have people got to a point now and this is probably where the low dosing comes in because they feel productivity is good even if by what we were seeing 30 years ago it it it's not much changed that they feel that's still significant and that was that's been a productive cycle you know have have people expectations from cycle lowered significantly which is why the lower dosing is more should I say acceptable I don't know if that's the right word but you get what I mean yeah I do and and I think part of it once again goes back to like the demographic changing and there's a lot more we'll just call it like your average gym go a lot more people like before it was a small percentage of people in the gym were using gear now it's I think a fairly decent percentage have or are or are on TRT and some of those TRT people are looking to add something in. Um, yeah, and I think that for Yeah, for sure. You know, the lower expectations. Absolutely, man. I I don't think that that's a question at all. You know, I'm I'm with you. H what's that? Well, I'm not aware. Someone's just mentioned something that a study that came out or a comment that came out today about uh one set but body still active dose. Uh yeah, let's see. What do you guys think of Dr. Schomfeld's latest post today about the study that confirms that one set per body part still creates hypertrophy? You know what? I would love to dig into that. I haven't looked at it. Victoria told me about the study. Um, you know, so I'm not going to say anything either way cuz I haven't looked into it. I'd love to get Scott to take a look at it. He's great at breaking that stuff down. I I will say this, a study is just a study. We talked about that on the latest. It's just bodybuilding. Like it really not absolute proof of anything. It it demonstrates a result in a very specific, you know, situation. So I wouldn't hang my head on any single study. You know, it's great information. File it away and continue doing the things that you know in your heart are working. Studies are experiments into whether a theory or an idea is correct or whether a pattern noticed in some other use is is correct or exploring that idea further. You know, um it takes a lot of studies coming up with the same results before science will turn around and go this is what happens. Yeah. All right, listen. Well, what do you say we dive into a bunch of listener questions here? Because we we got hammered with them. I'm going to tell you, we got a lot of questions and you guys are welcome to comment with questions for the next show. Um, are there drugs that block DHT receptors in the prostate to help prevent BPH? Also, if I'm taking enough testosterone that I require an AI to lower estrogen, wouldn't the DHT also be high, thus require a DHT blocker to lower that as well in order to protect my prostate? Thanks for the great info. What was the second part? Should he take a DHT blocker because he knows if his estrogen's high, it means his DHT is going to be high. Shouldn't he should he protect his prostate? Is there such a drug first of all that blocks DHT number one and number two should he take it if he's on cycle because his DHT is obviously going to be high and his prostate needs protecting. Um do we have a test? No. So obviously blocking the common approach is to block the conversion of test to DHT using a five alpha reductase blocking agent like finasteride or uh dutasteride. Um now finasteride only blocks type two where the other one blocks type one and type two. So obviously is more effective. I can't hear you Dave. You're you're I know you got the pillow talk going. Sorry. Can you hear me now? Yes. Thank you. Um so commonly DHT management in in prostate is done by stopping five AR. So you take finasteride or disasteride um which then stops the conversion of testosterone to DHT. Right. The other approach with prostate management is to block the androgen receptor, but that's not specific to the prostate. I don't think there's anything that's specific to the prostate. I could be wrong. It's not something I've looked at in a long while. Uh, I know there's a few androgen receptor blocking drugs, but the only one I can think of off the top of my head is flutamide, but I know there is some more, and they all tend to end in mide. Uh, but the others I can't remember, but uh, yeah, I don't know of one that's prostate specific. Well, let me reel you back just a minute here. Um, so this guy sounds like he doesn't have any experience yet. you know, he's he's new to all of this. Are you suggesting that everybody needs to block DHT from their prostate? Well, to be honest, in general, it's not something we see a lot of. Yeah. Um, we'll see some mild prostate inflammation occasionally, but it usually results that it's down to some form of infection rather than the actual anabolics. um some of the older users, sort of guys that have been using 20, 30 years, we we'll see some inflammation of the prostate, but generally it's not something that crops up very often. Um it's not something we're seeing repetitively. You know, it's not something that seems to be problematic. Um I'm curious as to why he's concerned with his prostate. Does he actually have an issue? Is there a family history? Or is there some concern around there? Does he say anything? No, I think that it's just a matter of him understanding the way steroids work. So, you have testosterone, it's going to break down into either test or estro or excuse me, DHT or estrogen. He recognizes that he needs to control some level of estrogen. So, he's asking like, well, does that mean I need to control DHT, too? And if so, what drugs are they? You know, the percentage of conversion is actually very low. Is it very, very low? Yeah, it's single percentiles. I can't remember exactly but it's single percentiles of test that gets converted to DHT. People who do uh get a high PSA reading, let me also tell you that if you have sex or masturbate, you will have a higher reading. So you need to with and boom sex. Yeah, that too. Bum bum bum sex needs to be left for at least a week. It's actually more impacting on the old prostate than than normal sex is just so you know. So yeah, keep those things in mind and if you do get a high rating, then maybe uh take a break and uh and test again, you know. All right. So don't have your morning wank is what Scott saying when you test your prostate. Exactly. Oh, there's just a comment I think and I thought it was a great comment. He says, uh at 26 minutes in regarding the synth oil comment aimed at Dave. I remember the first time I watched the podcast uh and I was it was soon after I switched from Advis Radio to Think Big. I saw Oh, shoot. I just lost my comment there. I don't know why that Okay. Um let's see. Dave in the thumbnail. I saw Dave in the thumbnail and I thought, "No way that that is real." But it was the topic of the video that interested me. After watching and learning more about Dave and watching Under Construction, I became a regular watcher and fan of the show. I think the key thing about Trolls is being closed-minded. I saw Dave thinking that's not even possible. But I was opened and my beliefs began to change. That was a nice comment. Being open-minded, right? You know, I felt that about Scott. And I thought there's no way a human being can be so ugly. But obviously as I've got to know him, I realized that is his real face. People, that's not a mask. Thanks, Dave. I I appreciate you, man. I love spending the morning with you, bro. Uh, sets you up for the day, doesn't it? For the week, actually. Great show as always, guys. My first comment, I was wondering if uh Dave has any updates on what's happening with these Chinese raw suppliers. Oh, we just talked about that when I told we done that one. Yeah, to be honest, it's Scott with the updates this week, not me. I know. Booger up. Uh Dave, how long would you recommend someone to go back on TRT after a blast? You're right. Key factor here is how quickly your levels return to some form of normality. If you get your levels down quite quickly because you don't do anything post blast for a few weeks to get the levels drop, then I would say 8 8 week minimum 10 week of being within normal range would be where I'd be looking for. But also I'd want to check bloods before going back on to make sure things like HDL have recovered. Blood thickness isn't a concern. If you're going straight on TRT post cycle, then you're probably going to be above range for an extended period of time, which would then extend your period of time you needed between cycles. It's it's all about long-term stress management. Bottom line, um you go into your sex cycle stressed from the previous one, and you'll find your tolerance of that cycle will be much less, particularly when you're pushing higher doses. uh and you'll find your progress will generally not be as good. So the healthier, fitter you are moving into a cycle, the more you're going to get out of it. Yeah. And you've talked before on the show about how that was the big difference between under construction one and two. you made fantastic progress after one and then that was after having some rest time and all that versus two, you just kind of went back in hard after not having a lot of recovery and that was kind of the undoing of it, right? Very much so. Yeah, very much so. I mean, obviously I was using very high doses so the effects were definitely magnified but it still it still is uh the point and I've seen it repeated in other people as well, you know, where they've just gone on too soon. Um it's you shouldn't be scared of time off, but we are, you know, we we tend to be and and it's like I get that been there, understand it, but you don't need to be, you know, you you'll be surprised. I was speaking to a pro, a very large pro. Would you go as far as to call him a giant? No. No. No. No. No. It's not Jamie. Um, and he's been off cycle, no drugs whatsoever, nothing. No TRT, nothing for 6 weeks. Okay. And he's seen no reduction in performance. His test levels are now low. Okay. But he's seen no reduction in performance whatsoever, but he has found recovery is getting a bit more challenging and he's sore for longer. Yeah. But if somebody who's training at that level of intensity, with that level of muscle mass, can go six weeks with no drugs at all, why are you panicking about having two weeks or three weeks off post cycle just to let your levels come down before you start your TRT? Sure. Hey, here's one uh I thought would be an interesting topic for us. It's not he didn't ask a question, but I had an idea to talk about. He said uh we were talking about you know minimum effective doses and stuff last week and he said that he added in 10 milligrams of Anavar. He said he well he hit a plateau on his dumbbell incline press. He decided to try a bit of VAR and now 4 days later he smashed two extra reps and hit a new PR with 10 milligrams. And you know I more power to him on that. And I said to him, I was like, you know what, man? It's not just like that eventually you do tap out the gear you know that you you what what happens when you are already running full boore and then you hit a plateau you know and I thought it could be a fun conversation for us to talk about what are some training techniques basically to break a plateau so that he has this in his arsenal but let's give him some training techniques too because I think that those will possibly be even more valuable than you know, just having the gear as being his one channel. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. So, you want to do that now? Yeah. Okay. Go on then. Well, I I'm curious to hear what you have to say. I have a couple thoughts, but I I turn it over. There's a few I my personal approach was I I ran a very regimented training program. Um and I generally did the same thing day in day out. It didn't change much. And in fact over 10 years I didn't really change my workout plan much at all. But what I would do is I would change the exercise order. So say I plateaued on my third exercise on chest. Then if I made that my first exercise when I was all fresh and not done two pre-exhausting exercises prior to it, I was obviously going to be stronger. So I would start with that then exercise as my first exercise breaking new strength plateaus in that exercise and then I'd move it to second try and maintain that strength if I didn't I'd stay there until I did then I'd move it back to third and then again repeat the strength process. So that was one thing I used quite a lot. Um I had a natural sort of evolution in in the training in that I would go through periods of times of being super strict even introducing time and attention stuff but really form driven and then I'd allow that to loosen a little bit and loosen a little bit and loosen a little bit and it was just a natural thing an instinctive thing is like right we're too loose now. So then I tighten back up again and then it was slowly loosen off while I pushed for more weight and then I tighten up again and each time when I tightened up I was coming back to a heavier point than I'd been the previous time I tightened up. Yeah. Um and this this this process might take six weeks, it might take 16 weeks, it might take 26 weeks. It all depended on the movement. And I would only loosen the form when the strength progress or the rep progress wasn't continuing a little bit. And then I t and and so my my net strength gain each time might only be 5 10 kilos but each time it was 5 10 kilos of net strength gain with very strict form and then I'd move on from there. I was never really I was always quite form le anyway. Um a lot of that was driven by injuries. So like when I bench pressed or did anything chest because of detached pec form had to be perfect because I was injured you know I had a detached pec I couldn't afford to be loose with form. Yeah. So my benching was always super strict. My flies were always super strict and that I had no choice in that. And and that sort of carried over into a lot of movements where form was very dominating. back I would get loose with um and and and apply a bit of momentum to break into new weight plateaus as well. So that that's the other thing. The cheat rep format was something I used as well in order to break into new plateaus. Yeah. Uh but I also I mean I remember first time I squatted seven plates sorry well second time. So in my 20s I was above seven place squatting and then when I got back into training in my 40s I remember the first time I I looked and moved back into seventh place I walked out on it and reracked it probably four or five weeks on the trot just getting used to holding the weight on your back just just getting that initial cuz I don't care who you are it's [\h__\h] scary when you're moving the heaviest weight you've moved yeah at least for a sustained period of time in a major compound movement like squat or bench because Oh You know, you know, if that screws up, that's a long time in hospital. Yeah. I I like that idea. I like your idea. I walked out with seven plates loads of times and then eventually it was like, "Right, commit." Yeah. And when I did finally move, it moved well. But also, if you were walking out with that, you still were squatting that day, you know, full squats with slightly lighter weight or what? Oh, yeah. So I I I mean my squatting was really really simple. Um I struggled with shoulder mobility to an extent. So the early sets I struggled to get under the bar properly. Yeah. So first I'd start with trying to just stretch out a little bit on an empty bar just to try and get under it. Then I'd do a plate, two plates. Usually reps would be 12ish give or take. I didn't really count the early reps. It was more a feel thing. Yeah. the time I hit three plates or by the time I finished a three plate set, um bar position was usually correct. So, by that point, the weight had stretched me out enough to get bar position correct. Yeah. Uh three plates would normally be eight, maybe 10 at a push, and then from that point onward, they were sets of six, but they were they were very controlled. And I just went three, four, five, six, six and a half. Um and for a long time, it was 6 and 1/2, 6 and 3/4. And I was doing six reps with six and three/4ers. So seven shouldn't have been any big challenge, but mentally it was mentally it was a really big challenge point. And I'd only ever squatted heavier than that in my 20s. And that was only because the carer I was training with slipped two10s on slightly halfway through the bloody workout. So by the time I got up there, I was actually doing seven and a half. And you didn't even know it. No, I didn't know. I just stepped out of doing that to people before. Yeah. And it's true to a to a degree it can work particularly on big compounds where fear becomes a big factor. Yeah. You know and squatting it can be scary as hell. I mean I remember stepping out with seven and standing there and I couldn't keep my hips still. Okay. My hips were just just gently but they were just gently flexing back and forth and it was like [\h__\h] hell. This is and then as soon as I released and committed fine no problem. But trying to stand there straight, it just wasn't stay still. I've got a tip for him. This is one from Dusty. I think it's it great if let's say he's working in the 10 to 12 rep range and he finds that he can't break a given weight. Um, and and like this is basically his big sticking point. If he changes that rep range up to like 16, 18 and I I never thought of this until Dusty talked about it about why this works. I knew it worked, but then it really added up to me. So, if you're doing let let's go extreme. Let's say 20 reps. Each one rep is 120th of your what you're capable of versus if you're doing a one rep max, then like literally there's no way you're getting two. Like, you literally just did everything you could. I couldn't be like, "Dave, let's get back under the bar and this time do that again, but get two reps." But if you're getting 20, it's 12th. You know, you could push harder to get another rep. And so you can still progress then um but in smaller increments, you know, if you're say doing instead of 10, you're doing 16 or 18 reps, you know, and the muscle is still going to grow off of that. It doesn't really know the the difference. It knows the how hard you're working. No stress. Yeah. No stress. And then down the road then you can go back to that 10 to 12 or whatever you were working in before. So I thought that that was a good one that I would add in and I've seen it work for people really well, too. You know, I think it works both ways as well. You can you can go higher rep or slightly lighter weight and higher rep or you can go lower rep and slightly heavier weight and then pull back to the weights that you were struggling with before. Sure. And there's there's two two sort of concepts with it. If you go heavier when you go back to the weight you're doing 10 to 12 reps with, it feels lighter because you've got this capability of moving more load. And if you go the way you've done like like like like Dusty, you're you're creating like you say, you're not putting as much demand from a point of view of increasing the reps for workload because the the weight is smaller. So the extra rep is less taxing, but you still build up progress and and again you can move on. I know Andy Bolton with powerlifting, he did a lot of higher reps than a lot do. Oh yeah. And he never pushed low rep like he never did doubles or anything like that going into comp. If anything, his reps were slightly higher. Yeah. And he was usually quite a way away from his his max weight efforts that he only really pulled out the bag on com. All right, we got a bunch of them. Let's see if we can maybe even rapid fire some of these. Um, he says, "Uh, viewer question for Dave and Scott. I was reading a comment uh elsewhere from a guy who is currently using 75 anadrol per day and even uh after nearly three weeks of use he has experienced zero weight gain no increase in blood pressure and even after a couple of weeks his blood tests show that his RBC's have not even increased a single bit. Um but he also reports zero strength increases. What do we think on that? I think I think it's fake. Dave, I I would question drug quality. Um though there are potentially I mean weight gain is it's weight gain is driven more by food than it is by drugs. You you're not going to gain weight if you don't have enough calories to support that weight gain. Unless it's I feel like you're going to gain some water. Yeah, you should get a bit fuller. Yeah, I would expect you should be a bit fuller, but uh I mean initial instinct is crap gear. Um and it's probably the most likely. Yeah. What do you guys take the molecular weight into consideration when planning a cycle? Example test is 288.42 g uh and and trend ACE is 330.5. Uh would you would you take this into account when figuring out like the differences considering that there's almost a 20% difference in active ingredient for the same ML? No. From different compounds. Yeah, I'm with you 100%. I the atomic weights don't have signi well I I might be completely wrong here so and I'm sure somebody will correct me here but I would have suspected that the atomic weights don't have a huge impact on the amount of milligrams per 100 milligram it's the esester weight that really affects the dosing in that point Yeah, I I listen too, we talked Dave about like using the least amount to get the effect you want. So, if you kind of use uh you know a if you have a rough idea of where you're going to jump into a cycle, let's say you run uh 350 tests for your first cycle, you you'll get an idea of how you do with that. Do you know what I mean? And and then you'll be able to determine like, hey, 350 was good for me. It's like we can't break it down into such a scientific thing where like we needed to increase that dose to get this. You know what I'm saying? It's just we just I take it for granted that this is the compound and my body's going to respond to X amount of the compound and if we don't get the response we want then we adjust the dose or we of course look at the other factors too like training and diet you know. Well the other Yeah. And I mean the other thing that's always going to be a problem within our marketplace is quality of drug. I mean, we've touched on that quite a bit, a lot, but uh but yeah, I'm pretty certain that atomic weight has no relevance to drug effectiveness, but esester weight has an impact on active ingredient per 100 milligrams milligrams of Is that what he's getting at there? I don't understand. You said molecular weight into consideration meaning that there may be more active ingredient with one esester versus another. Yes. So the the atomic weight is not the same thing. The atomic weight is what when you identify a compound using mass spec you you actually look for the atomic weight because it will show that that peak. Okay. So that's how you identify the compound. But trend having a different atomic weight to to test has no relationship to how much trend there is in 100 milligrams of 10 as opposed to how much test there is in 100 milligrams of t. That's the estester weight that affects that. Yeah. And even that though like do you take that into consideration? No. No. Every study ever done in anabolics has been done on total molecular weight of the compound. Okay. So, so that's the hormone weight and the esester weight. Yeah. Um, okay. Uh, J, I get a strong lower back pump when I train legs, back, abs, back, and the list goes on. He mentioned back twice. It must be really bad back pumps. Um, could you please advise on how to overcome the pain, please? I think we never spoke about back pain topics which seems to be a common undisussed issue in the gym world. Back pumps this there's usually two two two drivers. One would be literally black pumps. So you look five grams of torine can be very effective at helping with back pumps. The other is a lack of hamstring or glute flexibility which then forces tension into the back. Yeah. Causing the back to be under more stress when you move. So I would always hit it from both angles. I would definitely start some hamstring and glute stretching uh on a daily and then I would try the torine and see if that helped as well. How about this one? Um hey Scott and Dave uh what did you say here? Um would you and Dave be able to talk about carnitine? Uh its its types, benefits, drawbacks, and overall nature, please. In previous episode, Dave mentioned it's good for sperm count. I'd love to hear more on that. Thanks so much for sharing the knowledge with us. I don't know anymore apart from that it is. It helps with sperm mobility, but I I don't know the mechanisms at play. Yeah, I you looked into this, didn't you? A little bit. Yeah, I looked into it a little bit and um what do we find here? LC carnitine has been shown to have positive effects on improving sperm quality, mobility, count, and morphology. So there are benefits. I wonder if they they give a dose out here. There's if you do a Google search there is a a study out there about this dosing is a 500 minimum but I think a gram is the more popular dosing in research. What do they say? Overall evidence supports that LC carnitine can positively impact fail male fertility even a relatively low dose at 2 g per day. this supplementation in hint low enhances sperm I think they're talking oral sperm parameters regulates hormone levels reduces RO levels and subsequently improves fertility rates however uh further research is needed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms and establish optimal dose in conclusion the role of lcarnitine in the field of male productive health is highlighted with the potential to improve sperm quality and fertility He did mention an interesting thing there. He said, "Regulate hormone levels." Now, Scott Stevenson did a huge deep dive into this a while ago which kind of like everybody had questions. Man, do you remember this? The topic was Lcarnitine and thyroid hormone. It does not change the level of your thyroid hormone, but it will change how effective that level is for you. So if you have low thyroid hormone, and this is where it gets weird, if you have low thyroid hormone and you take Lcarnitine, that low Lcarnitine will become more effective for you. But if you have high thyroid hormone, it'll be make it less effective is what this research showed. We had it like three podcasts on it because it kind of blew everybody's mind on this topic. So it regulated it. Okay. Yeah. kind of an interesting side note. What would you say 500 you said maybe start? I'd say yeah like is that injectable? From where I've seen a gram injectable is where you want to be. Okay. Okay. And different types. If I use oral, I'll use the acetal lcarnitine. It's going to be more available than just like traditional LCAR. Uh but yeah, the injectable is going to be right in your bloodstream for sure. Dave did warn you guys about the yawning. Let me see if we have anything else to clean up here before we get into Uncle Dave's advice. For [\h__\h] sake. Big Dave looks like he couldn't give a crap if you hit the like button or not. Guys, hit the like button just for Dave today. People love you, Dave. Um, okay. One last one. Uh, don't be put off by my warm, cheery, fluffy um exterior. I am deep down a miserable shite. Can we get you a t-shirt that says that? I think I might get one. Yeah, this might sound like a silly question, uh, but I've got to ask and would really appreciate any insight from you and Dave. I've been getting pretty bad acne. For example, my current estimation, do I need to lower my test dose? Right now I'm running 650 test e um per week along with a th000 IU of HCG uh every 3 days and I'm taking 1 milligram of arimidex daily. Wow. And just to clarify, the remedex is legit. It's bought over the counter. Your subscriber and big fan. Thanks for education, Stuart. What's up, Stuart? Well, is is Eastern still elevated? Um, so it might be a case of increasing the AI control, but that's a lot of AI. 1 millig a day for 650 tests per week. That sounds redonkulous. It does sound a lot. Do you like that word? Redonkulous. Redonkulous. It's a 2000s word there. I know. I like I instantly thought of it, but for some reason I wanted to use it. Sorry. Yeah, you just needed a colored shell suit thing on now and bright colored one and a what? A ghetto blaster. Oh, okay. Is that what you guys did over there in the early 2000s? And some high tops or something. Oh, that's what I saw in all the American films. Oh, okay. Yeah. So, it must be real. I'm sure. Um, yeah. I mean I if if you're having to run that amount of estrogen management I I would start to think that maybe high dose aromatizing drugs is not the way forward. Boom. Um and possibly look at you know adding in something like mast and a slightly lower dose of test. One you'll get the serum effect but but two obviously you'll get less aromatization and therefore management should be easier. And I am assuming that the acne is estrogen based. That would be the obvious thought with where you are. Yeah. I wonder how you I think that could be a potential thing. I feel like the 650 test is not agreeing with him if not only he has the acne but he also has higher estrogen. What is the range in the UK on PMO for estrogen? Like what's the top end? I think it's 149. Okay. And he's at 180. So, it's not like estrogen is crazy, you know. No, it's not. I say I mean, normally I would say if estrogen was sitting at that on 650 test, I'd probably just leave it. Yeah. If you weren't getting any real sides, but I mean, the acne could be getting driven by DHT from the test as well. To be fair, it's not a simple solution, is it? There could be a few factors at play here. Side note, washing your skin with Head and Shoulders shampoo does help dry out acne. Yeah, there's that. That's a good point. I'm not saying it's a cure, but it's at least a a temporary support. Yeah. And and understand too that acne is an infection of the skin. So regardless of what the cause, once you have it, it will want to perpetuate itself and spread. So there's that. Keeping the skin clean, removing bacteria. Witch hazel is a great antiseptic that also adds moisture to the skin. You don't want it to be completely like you don't you want to dry it out, but you don't want your skin to also be dried out, which will then trigger you to produce more oil. So, it's clean, dried out, and then also rem return moisture. So, it's there's a lot. I remember my my brother using witch hazel to treat his black eyes that he regularly got. Really? You getting a lot of fights? me my middle brother was a gobshite and he couldn't really fight so he ended up getting battered quite a bit. Um it was the oldest and me were the the fighters and Matt wasn't a particular fighter and he yeah he'd go out and get drunk and then say something stupid and end up getting a slap and then be there in the next morning in the bathroom applying witch hazel to his black eye. We'll we'll tie this in as Uncle Dave's advice in some way. Uh we're we're witch hazel for black eyes. Yeah. Were you the uh were your brothers as big as you? Were they like tall strapping guys? So my our um our Mark is 62 I think and he was big like me and we take me and me and my brother Mark take after me mom's side of the family. Matt was 62 and a half I think but he was slim like me dad. So my dad wasn't tall but me dad was very slim. Okay. Um and so me and our M look very similar to each other. Matt looked like he was the Milton's. Um and um yeah, he um he used to he used to go out and get pissed. He he wasn't very good at handling his drink in his younger days and then ended up being a gobshite and used to end up getting battered for it. And then our Mark used to have to go and sort his problems. You had a tall a big grandpa too, didn't you? Who was a butcher? Yeah. Yeah, me grand was 6 to um 24 25 stones. So, what's that? 160 kilo. Oh, wow. Big. And he used to pick he used to pick up half cows and throw them over his shoulder and walk them out the arbitrary into the butcher block to to chop them up, you know. He was a big strong fella. That's wild, man. And I remember you telling me that once before. That's the picture I have in my head when I Okay. He was uh he actually broke his hip cuz he slipped while he was carrying a cow. Oh god. And he hit the floor and then the cow landed on top of him. Oh wow. And he never he never really recovered from that. He his hip was always a problem. Wow. But uh yeah I mean me granddad even in his 70s was strong as an ox. So he didn't lift outside of cows though I assume. Right. No. That was like kind of before people lifted a lot. I assume. Yeah. He um strangely I was never particularly strong uh when my granddad was very strong and and it was quite so I got the size genetics but I never really got the strength gen. I mean I I built my strength up over time but you know I I wasn't I would never say I was known as being particularly strong. There was a few things strong on shoulders. Yeah. But but I was uh never particularly strong elsewhere. Um but yeah, he's my granddad was um a massive fellow. And there's some pictures of him. I think he's 18, 19, and I'm 17. And apart from one being black and white and one being color, you'd think it was the same person. You're kidding me. No, we were very similar. I used to get the old deers. I used to get on the bus coming home from school and it was a public bus, so it's not like it was a school bus. There'd be old deers from the village on there who knew me granddad as as young and a bit. Oh, you're Stanley's grandson. I Oh, I I used to fancy your granddad when I were you. It's like, oh god. That's funny. Didn't you tell me too that he was involved with like some underground meat? Oh, in the war. Yeah. So, my grand were a butcher. Um, he was he was the head butcher for co-op in Huddersfield for a while. And obviously during the war, meat was rationed. So he used to do black market butchery in the basement under the house. Of course he did. Sounds like a man after your own. You know the way that what you what are you saying, Scott? The way the house was built, it was done your own way. That's what I'm saying. It was it was three stories at the back and two stories at the front. So the seller was actually you'd walk around and walk into it. Yeah. And um yeah, they used to do black market butchering there. Police used to bring him meat and get him to butcher it up and all sorts of stuff. Oh, no kidding. They'd bring their own meat. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, coppers obviously had a chance of getting meat more than the average person did. Perks of the job because he was there was a rations due to like limited supply. Yeah. And he was he was too big to go to war. So he too big of a target. You know what I'm saying? Well, he he just physically couldn't pass the the fitness. So they put him on the the they put him on the guns on the shoreline on the anti-aircraft guns. Oh. Um so he didn't actually go overseas. So as a result he was at home a lot more than a lot of guys were at that time in Okay. So he still was in Yeah. So but yeah, he used to he used to sit in the anti-aircraft guns. Wow. Um you guys were so much closer in World War II than we were. You know what I mean? Like we were so so far removed. Well, you never got bombed, did you? No. You never You never got bombed, whereas we did, you know. I mean, my family's rural anyway. Always has been. So, we didn't really see a significant amount of bombing where we were, but we saw the refugees moving out from the cities that were all moved to the country. Wow. For safety. So, a lot of children were were moved out into the country to stay with farm families and stuff. Oh, no kidding. Huh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, there was a lot of that went on. Uh, but yeah, me granddad used to do black market butchery in the world. Well, guys, that's the best you're going to get for Uncle Dave's wisdom today. I feel like there was some wisdom in there. You know what I'm saying? It's like that was I had some wisdom actually. Yeah. Oh, you do? All right. After you hit and haw and you go, "Oh my god, you you've got what do you got?" I don't really know how to word it. That was the problem. That's why I was uming and narring. Uh so I'll probably I'll just shoot it from the hip and see if I get there. Do you ever do it any other way? You do you have a little prepared sometimes. So there I I will give you that. I sometimes have have a have a way to my point whereas today I don't really have a way to my point. So my point my point yeah just keep swimming. So that's my point. No. Um, be careful around the motivations of why you do things. Huh? So what I mean by that and I say I'm struggling as to how to contextualize this and put it in a in a way to understand. But what I mean by that is we we often do things for the sake of doing things rather than because we actually want to do things. And there are things in our lives that we do that we don't want to do. Now some of them you have to do. They're dutiful things because for whatever reason, you know, going to work, things like that. But there are things that we choose to do that if we're honest, we don't actually get joy from them. And I see this specifically within our industry where I see people that are training or dieting or competing and they don't enjoy any of it. They do it because they feel that they have to do it when, you know, maybe there's other ways to keep fit and healthy. You don't necessarily have to go to a gym and it doesn't make you a lesser person if you don't. You know, you might keep fit and healthy by walking up hills or playing squash or tennis or or something. Or maybe you like it, but you don't want to compete. You know, that's okay, too. Yeah. There's no set thing that you have to do. There's nothing wrong with lifting weights and not following a diet if you don't want to. There's nothing wrong with lifting weights and not using drugs if you don't want to. What? I'd argue that there may be I know I'd argue that there might be some stupidity with using drugs and not lifting weights or having a diet, but that's more a health concern than anything else. Yeah. But but my my point is that uh do what makes you happy, not what makes other people happy. I like that. Yeah, I like that. That's good. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Uh Dave, how's your new app going? The app itself spot on. The number of people buying it is [\h__\h] Who's not good at advertising and promoting themselves? Who doesn't do a good job at my social go? Tony, it's official. Scott says you [\h__\h] That's not what I'm saying. You're not good. You don't You don't You're very um You hold back. You don't promote yourself a lot. That's what I'll say. We're going to promote you here. I looked at the site. It's a nice site, too. What's the website again? Uh it's uh ww. betteru as in the letter u.online. It's basically coaching in a box for 30 pound a month. From a point of view of what you get for the money, I don't think you can go wrong. Try it. Um see what you think. Yeah. No, it's you. I mean, you could just book in for a month. If you don't like it, you've wasted 30 quid. I waste more than that on [\h__\h] coffee in a week. What if you had a What if you did like a contest once you got people going and you're like whoever Oh, you you do you got a contest going? Oh, no. So, we did a we did a contest like um share and like app thing, you know, and and somebody got a lifetime membership for free. Oh, I should have gotten in on that. No, I mean like what if you had everybody who was a transformation transformation type thing? Yeah. Yeah. And whoever like get wins gets the best transformation like they get recmped or recouped, you know, on their their cost. Yeah. That's I more than happy to do something like that. I just need enough people in it to make it worth doing. That makes sense. All right, guys. That means that you if you're interested, if you don't want to hire one of us for coaching, maybe you're a little bit strapped for cash, but you do want some direction, check out Dave's app, uh betterw.online. All right. And of course, go to evalbutanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave. You can hit us up over at Patreon. Hit me up over there and uh I try to get early releases out when possible. Uh answer your questions. You guys get priority on the show and of course trnutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Supplementource.ca for Canadians. Strongsports.com. That's sportsnutrition. Great performance and great health supplements. If you're on cycle, you're going to need them. And for another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosland, we will see you soon. Dave, hang on. I got one more thing. What's your thing? Don't forget the Dave supercharger for Oh, you got $10. I forgot to tell you. We got We had somebody on. You've got So, you got $15 now for your supercharger. All right. Yes. It's coming along. It's coming along. Yeah. Only another 8,000 to go. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Uh, if I didn't mention it, leave us questions for the next show.