He's like, I'm going to run 20 anavar in two grams of test. What do you think? First cycle. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNeely, and all of our programming, it's brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave if you're in the UK. And if you're on cycle, you should definitely be getting your labs done. We're also brought to you by stumsports.com. That's Stum Sports Nutrition. If you're in the UK, you can get some great health stacks from them. Especially, once again, if you're on cycle, you need to hit up Stum. If you're in Canada, you can go to supplementsource.ca and get great deals that change week to week. Uh we are also brought to you, of course, by truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there on highquality supplements here in the US. They've got literally every protein powder you can think of. We're brought to you by Patreon. We have a Patreon questions today. Uh we're going to talk, you guys asked, so we're going to, you know, the demand is there. Today, we're going to talk about Dave's ProCharger. We had we had uh gear heads, they're called, which are completely something different than I thought, Dave. Gearheads. Uh they want to hear about the Procharger. So, we're going to get to that today. Um and we had a bunch of questions, dude. Like, we got What's that? Not see. No, no, that's not saying it anymore. That's a upcoming program project you're working on, right? M maybe is that what it is? Well, you guys can roll that back, freeze frame it, blow it up, and uh and you can get a little hint on Dave's upcoming project. Uh we did, dude, we had a lot of great feedback on the last episode. We had a ton of questions, so we might need to power through some of them. But we had one that's come up before and I thought, you know what, this would probably make for a good lead topic. He says, um, and by the way, once again, if you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below. We'll try to get it on the next program. If we don't comment again, plus comments, likes, all that stuff helps to boost our show. He says, um, "Some people preach that peeds shouldn't be used by people who don't compete. I disagree, but where would you, uh, and Dave draw the line for the gym bro living the lifestyle but not planning on stepping on stage?" Tren insulin, what do you think, man? And we have, like I said, talked about this before, but it's never been the main topic of the show. 10 milligrams of anavo. That's it. That's it. Yep. That's all you get. Yep. What about TRT? Are you allowed to do your TRT with that or do you have to stop it, too? No, you have to stop it. Oh. Oh, that's not much, Dave. Um, yeah. Um, there's a few compounds I would definitely be wary around and then there's some compounds that are a little bit more. If you want to do it, then fine, but just bear in mind there can be some I mean, trend's an obvious one. It's like I I personally wouldn't use trend with a client unless they were not unless they were there's a few occasions I'll use it with lifestyle sort of clients but generally I I'm not a fan of putting it in unless they are competing. What if they ask though? What if they're like hey mate I I like trend. I want to run trend and I'm working. If they want to run it that's fine but obviously we go through the caveats of look you know this can cause anxiety. It can be longterm. So, as long as they're and my big stamp's always been the same. It's like do what the effing hell you want, but just be aware of the risks you're taking. So, you make a decision based on all factors. And that's the bottom line. But I I would have said things like AMP is a drug I wouldn't put go near unless you're competitive and even then I'd be wary of it. Adenosine monofaphosphate. Yeah. And what does it what does a denosine manifasphate do? Well, one, it's a veterary drug. Two, um, it basically makes you super super vascular. Yeah. I mean, what advantage is that to somebody unless they're competing, and even then it's not an advantage, but it's just a look that some people like to put on stage. Yeah. It's it's cool. You know what I'm saying? It is cool, but it's it can also be a bit nasty if you get it wrong. Yeah. Not permanently, but it can give you some [\h__\h] mighty headaches, dude. I heard it makes you feel like garbage right after you take it. Yeah, it can. It can really make you feel rough. Uh the other one I'd be wary around is Oh, forgotten. So you turn while I think of it. Okay. So here's the thing. I I never so I feel like years ago I wasn't clear on why I would say I don't want to use these. I don't think a non-competitor should use fill in the blank. And it's interesting because I feel like there was some like push back that people thought like oh well you're gatekeeping that you think that only a competitor deserves to run X Compound and that's not it at all. My thought is is that if so with a contest, with a contest prep, my mindset is completely different. It it the reality is like stepping on stage, you're kind of creating an illusion. Yeah, absolutely. You're getting peeled out of your freaking head, but what you're trying to do to look the way you look is something that we only hold for literally like one hour of one day. And I don't think that that's beneficial to anybody who's going to be, you know, doing a a lifestyle type thing, non-competitor, you know, more so I want to focus for a non-competitor on how can we get you looking really good and then hold you there like say like you're like, "Hey, I want to be in shape for summer." Okay. A maintainable look. Yeah. Yeah. A maintainable look. How can we do something that will get you looking crazy and and also be able to hold that long term? Now, yeah. If we were to say turn a few knobs, maybe we could do the same thing to to to get you reaching that contest, you know, peak look. But like what benefit is that going to be except for like I'm going to the beach that day and it's like you you hold this for 1 hour and then once you drink water it's gone. Like you know it's it's not it's not like reasonable. So things that I'm considering are compounds like halo doesn't make as much sense to me. Um, if I'm if I'm looking at, you know, I would I would much and it does work and it it can work in in my opinion in certain offseason situations like to push through strength plateaus um intermittently, not taken every day. um compounds like trend. Sure, we could use trend in a non-competitor, but it's definitely something that, you know, I if we if we don't have to I mean, yeah, I the less we can my my opinion is always this is that the less we need to use to get you to reach the look that you want to achieve, the better. You know what I mean? The more sustainable it is, the more sustainable I would say definitely. So I would prefer say contest prep cycle just as an example might be test add in mast and maybe as mast prope and then trend uh in the last 6 weeks and then windstro in the last four and then halo in the last 10 days you know so that you can look a certain way on a certain day versus for an guy who's doing a you know um non-competitive program it might just be like test in long acting mast and maybe we add in a small amount of trend for the last 8 weeks, you know, but it's something that you can just like roll with and keep the look is more what I'm thinking. Not taking things that are going to be so toxic that cuz once you start taking compound 2, you're on the clock as to how soon you have to stop taking that compound. I completely Yeah, I'm completely with you. I would said there is a whole class of drugs I wouldn't consider and that's diuretics. Yeah. Yeah. There's a great example, you know, like that it's not going to do what you want in any kind of, you know, it's just not sustainable. It's just not sustainable. Men, I would be a little bit more cautious around. I'm not saying it can't be used. I think it can be used, but it it's again it's it's that riskreward element. It's not a compound you're going to be on for very long periods. It's not a compound you're going to be able to visit on a regular basis. By all means, try it. see how you get on with it. But just have that reservation that it's not something I can build into every cycle or or have for long-term use and buy Scott a bib. Yeah, I might need one. Thankfully, I always wear dark clothes, so if I spill coffee, I'm good. Well, it's it's Alex's top anyway. I mean, just use it to mop the tea up. It doesn't really matter, does it? Um, and then, you know, Yeah. So, that's definitely one. I agree. Halo is another one. For some unknown reason, I still can't think of the compound I'm thinking of. Listen, orals in general are something that I'm I'm not as fond of for a non-competitor to be used in a like a longer term fashion. You know, I I I feel like if we're adding an oral in, we're getting to the end of the cycle. Like, okay, things have been going good last four weeks. let's add in this, you know, or maybe intermittently in an offseason push where we're trying to break through some strength. But yeah, you know, because especially orals, man, it's like that toxicity is just going to keep building up once you start it. So, you're on your the the first time you the the first day of your oral is one step closer to the end of your cycle. You know, again, it's a compound that needs limited exposure. It needs controlled exposure. the the compound I was thinking of was more of an exotic and and it it's a growth factor. No, it's a growth factor compound. Growth factor compound. And it's not you would have said IGF if it Yeah. No, it's not IGF to be honest. I I think with IGF it it's if you run it at the dosing you need to run it to get real muscular results. Yeah. It's not a pleasant compound to run and it's really cost prohibitive. Yeah. Um, my starting suppressants, they just don't work unless you're spending thousands and thousands of dollars. So, mostly the high sea stuff is just garbage. Um, but oh, it's it's going to annoy the [\h__\h] out of You'll think of it like 10 minutes after we finish the show. Yeah, it's going to annoy the hell out of me now. Growth factor, huh? Yeah, it's a growth factor, agent. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you know, okay, if I give you the side effects when you take it, it aspirates through the lungs, makes you an immediate shortness of breath, and causes a smooth bowel contraction. Oh, PT PT41. No, that's that makes you horny. PGF2A. PGF2A. I was I knew I couldn't think. Yeah. Okay. I never That's That's definitely a drug I wouldn't be messing with unless you're a competitive. Even then, I'd be questioning it. Yeah. Didn't you say you used that one time? M and and how did how did that go? So PGF2A is it does a couple of things. It's actually as a topical. It can be used as a fat loss agent and it will spot reduce fat. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Um it it it kills fat cells effectively. Um as an injectable, it's rumored to to actually promote sight growth. Um, I can't say whether it does or not, but god, it makes you feel like dog [\h__\h] Yeah, it it's horrible. You feel like crap on it. Um, and not really anything specific, just a general Did you be honest, did you have to ever change your pants after you took it? The first time I took it, I was actually sat on the toilet just to be careful. Just to preemptively be ready. Huh. that actually you can you can get to a point where you control that side of it and and where you don't pass. But what I found is when I got to the point where I was controlling it so I could take it whenever I wanted. I wasn't going to [\h__\h] myself. Um I'm doing really good. I'm not going to crap myself today when I drugs. I ended up being constipated. Oh, okay. So it it was like I can't win here. Um, but yeah, PGF2A is is a rather unique little thing. And I think that's it. When you start getting into those real quirky sort of exotic things, yeah, you know, from a an experimental point of view, it it it's okay in the sense of if you want to sort of play an experiment, but that they're just not in any way long-term sustainable. And let's be honest, I I do think there is an element of gear use that is like, hey, I just want to know, you know, DNP, I just want to know, you know, it's like there's no real reason to have used it otherwise than, you know, I can't think of any contest preps that I've worked with somebody or my own where I've been like, man, we got to hit the DMP now. It's always uh it's always one of those things where like, well, I want to see what it does, you know? Same thing with insulin. Same with GH, same with everything. And the more exotic you get, the the the less we really needed it like, you know, truly needed it, you know. Esaclin or Novatl. Oh yeah. So Exacin has not been around in my time of body. No. So now it's Novatl or whatever it is. I can't remember how you say it. We talked about that years back. It's from Spain, isn't it? I thought it was from Russia. Okay. I thought we saw it. Or maybe it was like it was legal in Spain at for up to a point and it's basically it's it's a sight irritant. Um causes localized swelling in a muscle which makes it appear bigger. Huh. I wonder what that does to your inflammation markers. You know what I mean? Probably puts them through the roof. But you look jacked. Yeah. There is there is some science to support a small amount of sight growth with it as well. Again, it's it's just not there's there's usually two reasons you can't support the exotic stuff. It's either cost. Yeah. Or or it it's side effects, you know, and it's usually one of those two. It's it's either it's just too damn expensive. Yeah. Or or it's the side effects are just too too harsh to tolerate. Yeah, I could see that. All right. Well, I hope that answers the question. Anything else you can think of off because I don't like I have no problem with saying Mr. Okay. Well, I'd put that in the same category as an honestly or or Halo. Would you put Well, well, maybe not quite Anadraw, but I'd put it in the same category as Halo. Don't you be dissing Oxys now. Don't you come on this show and start being discreditation against oxies. You horrible individual. maybe intermittently uh you know toward the end of a of a phase where we're really trying to focus on strength a small small dose say on leg day and and you know pull day something like that and that's it you know two times a week something like I could see that I never used it I know you had I never used it because my always my thought had always been contest prep I'm already on trend why don't I do something completely different like Halo. Halo would always I never really rated M Trent to be fair. No, it could have been crap quality drugs. I don't think it was, but we never know for sure. Yeah, but it never really did anything for me. I found it complete waste and I I went up to two two and a half milligram. Yeah, that doesn't sound right to me, man. Yeah, that's a hit. I because I I remember the oral at I started at 250 micrograms oral and then I went to 500 oral and then I this is the one time why was I taking it because I wanted to see what it did and I was dieting but I had the same with Tren. I didn't get a huge hit off Trend either. I found Trend very Yeah, I was I was actually incredibly disappointed with Trend because of all the stories I'd heard and all the, you know, oh, this shit's rocket fuel. It'll do this, it'll do that. Not really, guys. I think Dave got some faith trend. Vote below, comment below if you want to see Dave run a real trend cycle. All I all I can say is that um and I won't say his name, but a professional bodybuilder was running the same lab, same batch doesn't mean the world. And I get that and I I fully appreciate that. And it was that No, it was destroying him. Okay. Huh. Uh and I was like, I'm not getting much off it really. I don't know. Well, I like I said, I started 250, went to 500, went to 750, and then basically had heat stroke because it was summer and I like I it was bad, man. I was like crashing out like trying to work outside and in hot warehouses and stuff, man. I was like, "This has got to go. This is not for me." Yeah. No, I never I never really got a huge amount from it. Um, in fact, that might have been the only thing I threw out. I've given away a couple things, but that one I think I just tossed it or you know what? No, you know what I did with it? I threw I threw the PGF2A out, but I did have like a a bottle this size cuz I bought it from a veterary supplier and it was like half a liter of the stuff. I hid it. I hid it in my apartment like just to stash it somewhere. And I think it was like I can't remember where it was like by the furnace or an event or something like that. So one day somebody's going to find these little yellow triangular tabs of methyl trend and they're going to think it's something else. They're going to think it's like, you know, they probably think it's something like rat poison or something. It won't be far off really. Yeah. Right. Yeah. All right. Well, listen, I think that that maybe covers it. You guys tell us where's your line as a non-competitor. What do you not want to do? You know, and uh like I said before, leave us questions. Um cuz Dave, I got to tell you, man, we have a lot of them. We all know that creatine is great for muscle building, but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh I think it's pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive of it. I that's pretty much what I said. Creatin. Creatine. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatin plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstrates that your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So, if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder, everything else you can think of. Use our code think to help support our programming. Get some additional savings and get a great supplement. Yeah, it's definitely creatin. And there was one on Patreon I really want to make sure we cover today. Just to to paraphrase it, guy has never done a cycle before. He's starting his first cycle. He's going to run I can't remember the duration he said, but here's his dosage. He's like, I'm going to run 20 anavar in two grams of test. What do you think? First cycle. Two g of test. Holy [\h__\h] I mean, like, it doesn't make sense cuz the anavar is like, well, I want to watch the liver. You know what I You know what I'm saying? Look, do what you want, but that's a lot. Uh, I mean, that's a lot. A two g test only cycle is a lot for anybody as a test only cycle. But I agree the one compound, but I would be much further down the 400 500 mark if I was you, dude. Even 300, 350 even, you know, like leave yourself some room. Well, at least. Yeah, two grabber tests sounds good. Adavar is a bit overboard. Yeah. Thanks, Ty. We appreciate your input, brother. Yeah. Yeah. It's like that. I'm going to order a Big Mac, double Big Mac, Whopper, whatever meal it's called. Um, and but I'm going to have a Diet Coke cuz I'm watching my weight. Right. Right. Yeah. I I I'm wondering if it's a circumstance of that he just doesn't have enough education yet, which in that case, I encourage him to like I mean, he is a Patreon subscriber, honestly. Uh, and this is no like no knock to him. Had it been somebody who just commented blankly on YouTube that really we didn't know, I'd be like, "Oh, he's pulling our leg." But, you know, he I'm pretty confident he means this. That's all I will say, sir, that is a lot of drug. Uh, particularly for a first cycle. I think you'll be surprised how well you respond from a quarter of that. Yeah. Yeah. and less sides easier to like a manage going in. Imagine going into your first cycle having to try to manage the sides of two two grams of test for someone, you know. Yeah. Well, I mean to put it into something relatable, that's like going from a 200 horsepower car and suddenly jumping into a 1000 horsepower and expecting to be able to drive it competently without any previous experience, you know. And we do have listeners who will appreciate that analogy now that we know that we've got some gear heads on board. I I like my car analogies. I find it a good way of explaining drugs. For some reason, it seems to work well. Yeah, I use that car analogies too sometimes, like talking about like nitrous, like we don't we don't hit the nitrous in first gear, you know what I mean? Let's let's get the We're going to be really spinny. Yeah. All right, let me see what else we have here. And uh yeah, you guys are freaking awesome with all the comments and everything. Your positivity, we appreciate it. Um Oh, wow. This guy's name is actually gearhead 157 he says but I think he might mean the other kind of gear. Uh, I'm on 750 test c, 600 mass, 200 trend, 60 anavar per day. Uh, or no, excuse me, 60 anavar on uh workout days. 20 mg of MK-677, 25 milligrams of GW-501516. I I just got redrue tide. Should I drop the MK as I feel as if I'm not cutting as fast? Um, I'm using the MK because GH is more expensive. Lol. I from a GH point of view, I don't think the MK is particular. We discussed this last week actually. I don't think the M I don't know if we discussed it on or off air though. I don't think the MK is going to be particularly effective and if anything, it's just increasing your appetite. Uh, that's definitely a compound I wouldn't be looking at. If I was looking for a cheap alternative to GH, which GH is relatively cheap these days, particularly if you're only running a couple of IU a day, then you could look at the GHPS. Uh, but I think even then, you're probably going to be more cost effective at just sticking to IU or GH. even if you did it every other day. Uh though I appreciate that the initial outlay is higher. Um in that you're going to be spending a lot initially to get that. True. Um not a big fan of card myself. Um don't think it's having a huge impact in your total anabolics. Um it's a bit like the 20 anavar on the two gram of gear job isn't it? you know, it it sort of seems a little bit like is it I do get a good fat loss benefit from it when I've used it. I've noticed a good benefit from that regard, but cost to benefit, you know, Scott and I I and I maybe I should go back and find it. I said, is is will carterine end you? I think that was the title of the show was some because somebody said they were like, you know, you mentioned that carterine could cause cancer. um there's a study to show that it actually stops cancer. And so Scott looked at that study and he was like, "Yeah, so this study shows that it will actually help with this kind of cancer and this study shows that it will cause all these other types." So, you know, there's Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Um I I just think there are better fat burners out there. You know, if you're going to add something for a fat burner, I'd be looking more at T3 Glen, that sort of stuff. Then I'd be looking at cardarine personally. Yeah. Where I think cardine's a little bit unique is around its lipid effects and it its cardiovascular improvement. Uh but I think that's a very specific effect for a very specific situation. Um I know a lot of people were keen on Carderine to try and offset the cardiovascular down regulation you got from Trenton um in in the sort of strongman sort of era which where I can see okay yeah I can see something there when you're top of your field and you you're wanting something but otherwise I'm not a fan but uh even if it didn't commonly contribute to cancer and I know the doses in the studies were generally much higher than what we'd see in recreational use. Yeah. Um I'm I'm still just a bit wary about it. That That's the bottom line with it. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's great for endurance, but and and like you said, cholesterol, but cost to benefit. I I I like that word weary, you know, it's good. Uh let's see. Chris says, uh you mentioned people who want to stay on year round for an interesting topic. What would be a good year round cycle if people were interested in going that route? Cheers, fellas. Dave, follow-up question. If you do it year round, is it still a cycle? Well, by definition, no, because the cycle is a Roick hates the word cycle. He he he [\h__\h] has a apeshit about it, but cyclic would mean rotatory. Yeah. So it comes back around which it's not doing because it's permanent. Of course I get it. I I but I I still like the word cycle because we are coming back to where we started. To me I I think common terminologies are useful because people understand them. True. Whether they're technically correct, I'm I'm not that bothered about. But I I get why he has a bug bear on it. Hormonally. We're coming back to where we started now. Not necessarily to Well, not not necessarily with most people. We're we're going like if we're on TRT, you know, like we're coming back to TRT. So, we've just um you know, the course is over, the cycle is over. I think if if you're going to be using an elevated dose year round, I would be reluctant to do anything above just test. Yeah. Just for the simple reason the body copes with it so well. Um, I I get the the benignness of something like Primo being added in, but then you've got that cholesterol suppression issue, um, which is difficult to manage with Primo. So, if you were looking at a secondary compound, I'm probably leaning towards mast. Personally, I don't agree with it. I don't think it's the way to go. But, if someone was hellbent on doing it, I would be test only or test and master a push. And look at your labs. I mean, that's the reason people come off is to get their labs back in order, right? Yeah. I mean, I I've seen people with surprisingly decent labs at long-term exposure to elevated levels. So, it it is from a lab management point of view, it's doable, but there's there's things that labs don't pick up. Um, and you would need to be I think for me the benefit I think isn't there. Um, yeah, I don't think you're going to see such I think you'll see more accelerated muscle growth from two good solid cycles a year. Yep. With with a correct TRT in between than you would from running a TRT plus year round. I 100% agree with you and I had even seen it in my own life honestly because I went through a phase of not dropping below 300 tests and I didn't see any additional like I honestly should have just done TRT because then I ran into other issues. My hematocrit got higher and then I had to do phabbotomy and blah blah blah you know. Yeah. And I I think I think when you start to stack in the extra management that comes into play of running an elevated level for an extended period of time, I think the costs and I don't mean the financial costs, I mean the the preventive costs end up being greater than the benefits you're getting. You know what else you've mentioned before and I think it resonates true here too is like you're only going to like push like we can all push real hard. You know what I mean? But we we can't be like, you know, gun to, you know, foot to the floor gunning it 365 days. You can for 16 weeks, right? And you know what I'm saying? It's like, how you going to maintain the motivation to take advantage of, you know, because before you know it, you're kind of like, yeah, well, this week I'm just not doing as good. You're not taking advantage of it then, you know. Yeah. Yeah. And I I think there are a few people that can maintain that level of consistency, but they they are rare. Yeah, they are rare. Uh and so I I I think because most of us live a life that having periods of time when we can be a little bit less on it and and spend time with family and do social things and all that sort of stuff. um you know downtime is is easier to accommodate things like that. Whereas full-blown cycle I I'm wanting to get everything I can out of that because I don't want to be there for for super long periods of time. And I mean I I pushed it on the length of time I stayed on and that's what caused a lot of the problems that and the overall size. But I mean I wasn't being shy with my dosing either. So I I get that that's a very extreme example. But uh yeah, I think these days I I I think time off is is is not just beneficial from a health point of view, it's beneficial from a progress point of view as well. Yeah. It gives you a chance to like stop, regroup, you know what I mean? Figure out, okay, this is going well, this isn't. What am I going to do to change that to make better progress, you know? Yeah. Stuff like injury management, things like that as well. I think it all comes into play. You know, you cannot hammer your body 24/7. Yeah, because it breaks. It's It's just as simple as that. It does break. All right. This guy says, "Uh, so Scott, you mentioned when doing test EQ cycle, you like running MPP at the beginning. My question is, how many weeks until you would drop the MPP out? And when you drop the MPPP, would you raise the EQ? Also, how long of a cycle uh would this be overall from start to finish? And what millig of each would you do? Uh, also incillaries, I think the dosing would depend on your experience. At the time, you know, I'd been using more gear, so the doses were going to be higher. Would that apply to everybody listening to the show? Absolutely not. Everybody's at their own place. There might have been some people here that would be like, man, I'd take more than that, you know, but, you know, basically at the time, I think it was like 1.25 25 grams of test, 800 EQ, and then I think I initially would do like 300 NP, but it even found like even 50 every other day seemed to be beneficial. And I would run that for like the first eight weeks. And by then the equipoise was really built up and I felt like it was really coming into its own and I didn't need the EQ. So I didn't change any of the other dosing. But that point I might have added in some like injectable deep ball or something for the last, you know, 6 weeks, something like that. Something that you might just happen to have lying around in your box that you found. No, back in those days. Not in those days. That's those days are the reason I have things left over today. Scott cycle design is what's there. Scots 60. Never would have guessed. Yes, there are people who still think that. Okay. Yeah, I'm just Yes, I'm 60, guys. No. Um, hi, I'm on kit. Thanks, Dave. I'm on gear for an 18 months blasting cruise. My CRP is very high. Um, what can I do to lower it? I'm currently on 550 test and 350 EQ. Oh, that's your blast. It's not particularly aggressive. So I would be asking but for 18 months. He said blast and cruise for 18 months. So what's your cruise dose period? How long have you been on your blast? But I suspect the CRP might be coming from something else like infection. I wonder what kind of gear he's using like is this have super solvents in it? You know that could be pushing inflammation markers up. It could also it depends is what's your definition of super high CRP? Yeah. I mean, an infection is going to put CRP could easily put CRP into the 20s, you know, um he said my CRP is very high. It's 13. It's high. I wouldn't say it's very high. It's high. That that could potentially indicate infection or inflammation depending on um that it sound things like hay fever can can spike H CRP as well. So, you know, are there any symptoms of illness? Is is there any allergy symptom? Is there anything else that could explain the CRP? Um or is it most definitely going to be gear? Yeah, I I wonder I do I because I do think there are more products out there now with super solvents. I had a guy messaged me yesterday who was like, "Hey, uh what did you what would you suggest I do to cut my test 400 because it's causing a lot of pain." And if you have test 400, there's no question you've got some very costic solvents in there. And just running that gear alone, you know, you could see elevated uh inflammation levels. Yeah. But I mean, his his actual push itself doesn't seem to be Yeah. Um, someone wants to talk about boobies. I'm down with that. Let's talk about boobies. Perfect pair. That was the perfect pairs from last week. Guys, I got to take a break to do the whole like, share, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place, in case you didn't know, and I I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So, if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So, if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. Question for Dave. Is there a problem with having too much free testosterone? If you run test high three grams, would the high free test mean that you're having spillover from your testosterone? SHBG is crashed. Astrad Doll uh is in range with Primo as an AI. Three grams of test and you're running Primo as an A. How much [\h__\h] Primo are you running? Or three gram total test and primo. It says if you're if you run test high three grams. No there. Now understand too, there's no punctuation here. It's just if you run test high three grams, does the free testosterone? No, the free testosterone I wouldn't be concerned about, but I would be I mean I'm assuming if you're running three grams of test, your primo is going to be Yeah, your primo I mean I've done three gram of test. It's it's definitely impacting. Um I would I would s think that your primo is going to be 1.52. There is a point where the the estrogen so the estrogen conversion for the test isn't linear. So as the test goes up the estrogen conversion starts to you know ease the curve. There's only so much aromatics enzyme in the body right. Yeah. There's only so much you can produce. um irrespective of how much of a fat [\h__\h] you are. Um so I would suspect that whereas if you were running 500 of tests, you'd probably need 500 of primo to manage that, if you're running three grammar tests, you're not going to need three gram of primo. You're probably going to be a gram and a half, maybe two. But that's still a [\h__\h] big cycle. Yeah. Um, so but yeah, no, I wouldn't say there's an upper limit to to free test at the end of the day, but you are going to produce more androgen receptors as a result to utilize what's going on, but it's the downstream stresses that start to become limiting. It's not the having enough AI to engage with the test. It's it's the amount of stress you're creating downstream that becomes the limiting factor. Normally, I'd say I could hold it, but I gotta pee so bad. I gotta take a break, Dave. I gotta go. I gotta go, man. The [\h__\h] Well, do you want me to People were asking about what I'm doing with the car. So, should I Hold on. Hold on. Why don't I give you another question cuz I want to save that for the end or, you know, as we get as we finish up the questions, I'll ask you this one and I'll be back in a minute. Question for Dave. Okay. He said that he used to drive 20 IU of GH. How in his ex how was his experience with fat loss? Um did he do any kind of uh potassium consumption etc. did he get leaner? Um he was that he was full of water is clear. There is a rumor that if you take so much GH that you can't get fat. GH. So when I took high doses of GH yes right. So, the time the time stamp is 42 minutes and 18 seconds. Run. I got to go. I got to go. Um, no. Um, water retention was definitely a problem, but at the time I was running particularly high levels of GH, I was also starting to creep into the kidney issues. So, it was a very mixed bag of what my body were doing and water retention was a continual issue. Um, I was leaner, however, than I thought. Now, when I went into hospital with my kidney failure, I was 415 lbs. When I came out a week later, having been on IV diuretics, I was £355 with some visible abs. not fully out, but you could definitely see where they were supposed to be and what was going on. Now, for a period of time prior to that, I had been trying to reduce what I thought was excessive body fat. Um, did the GH play a factor in that condition I presented when I dropped the water? It may well have done. I don't know for certain. Um, but I had a combination of obviously high GH, high insulin, which is going to drive a shitload of glycogen water into the cell that was definitely spill over, but I was also dealing with renal issues. So, at that point, we'd have been 3A 3B. So, we were in the EGFRS of 40ish. So, I had a growing amount of water retention from that as well. But all I can tell you is that when I came out of hospital at 355, I was significantly leaner than I thought I was and I had a visible sort of ab definition coming through. Um, so was the GH a factor in that? Could have very well been. All right. I didn't want to miss the ProCharger talk. That was the other thing. So I wanted to know about it. Um, that was actually incredibly quick for a piss. I'm I'm quite impressed. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I just went in the corner. I just didn't even leave my office. I just, you know, ball. Yeah. No, just ran on the floor. It's fine. Yeah. Oh my god. I had to go so bad. I I chugged a bunch of water. I drank one of these bottles before the show and I I was like, I don't really have to pee right now. We'll just record. I'll be fine. That's a decent water bottle size. What's up with you? That's a good water bottle. This one is uh this one's 32 ounces or 40 ounces. What's that in in metric? Young man, speak English. I think it's AI think it's a liter. Maybe a little 2.2. It's good. Um All right. So, we have a guy who has won three out of three of his uh classes in masters. Uh and he's going into the fourth now. And he says he's doing something different. He's got no coach. He's doing this on his own. He says, uh, he's already qualified for nationals, so this show is for fun and experience and experiments. Okay. Then 2026, he's going to do a national show. He says, "Love you guys and all the knowledge." So, here's the experiment. Uh, three times a week, he's going to do 225 uh, excuse me, 75 test, 225 a week, 75 mass, 225 a week, 0.5 primo, 105, 150 per week. Tren ace uh 33.3 uh milligrams um and that's going to be 100 milligrams per week for a total of 700 milligrams. Pull everything a week out and add Winstrol. Is this a good plan guys? I wish he told us what his original thing was like. What was he doing before? You know well I don't think it really matters does it? Because this is just pure experimentation. So but it would help us to understand. You know what I mean? Like what if he says that like oh before I just was running uh TRT you know I'm sure he wasn't but you know what I mean it's like then it it dosing dosing seems sensible um in in the sense of total milligrams uh and and the split the drug choices I don't have any issue with it from a point of view of comp prep. Yeah. Um so yeah I don't I don't see anything there. Um, now this used to be a big difference between the UK and the States was the UK, going back some time, we used to always pull our injectables 10 days out and just run in on orals only. Yeah. Um, and and as a result, we tended to come in drier and harder, but not as full. where Americans used to always run their injectables right up to the show and they tended to come in fuller but maybe not quite as granely hard as their UK counterpart. So I think he'll probably find that he's as long as he's lean that he might look drier and harder but he may see some change in fullness from from that. Um other than that I don't really see an issue with it to be honest. I mean, I I tend to pull injectables out of strongman um or at least lower them a week out so that they come in fresher and less less drained. My main and that seems to work very very well. Sorry. Yeah. Go on. I thought I thought you were finished. Um I was just going to say that my main concern is getting lumps on stage with injections close to the show. So, Tuesday, Wednesday is usually the last time I would take a shot anyway. And sometimes we might even pull the test out. I don't usually go. It's funny because I I don't know. I I don't know if I'm alone in this now. I thought that a lot of people did this, but Andrew said on Blood, Sweat, and Gear the other day, he was like, "Well, traditionally most coaches, Skip and I will both go to probe, like fast acting test at the end. I generally keep it a long acting test and never have a problem with that as long as you're managing estrogen the way you want. Um, but you know, my thought is is that it's most of this gear is still going to be in his system. Yeah. You know, so it's not going to make a difference. And I, you know, guys who travel to shows and and they're coming in several days early, I'll tell them like, hey, you don't really don't just take your last shot before you leave. And then the orals are more important. um managing orals when you're doing four shows that's gets interesting. You know what I'm saying? So I definitely I have no problem with anything he's he's doing here. Guess nothing. And I think people forget I think I I see people ask this a lot that you know stop the injectables. Yeah, but I'm going to have nothing in my system. It's not leaving that fast. Even even as a prop, it's not leaving that fast. You've still got this 72 hours. You know, it it's it's not going to get out your system that quick. So, you know, when you when you are dropping injectables, don't think a week later there's going to be nothing there. There's still going to be a hell of a lot of gear circulating. Oh, yeah. I might have people not take uh tests because we already have all that test. So, like maybe we cut the test out Sunday before the show and then still run um Mast and Tren. I always go with Tren ace. So, if I can get that a little closer to the show, it's a good idea. I did have Dave one time and I may have told you this story before. I ran out of Tren like Sunday. Ran out of trend and I just needed to take that additional shot on Tuesday or Wednesday or whatever. And thankfully, I had a buddy at the gym who told me, "Oh man, I have some really good trend. I make it myself. It's real smooth. I'll bring you some. Guess what, dude? I took that shot and my glue freaking swelled up like a tennis ball was on it. See it on stage. Obviously, I don't judge anywhere near as much as I used to, so I don't see it as much as I did, but you used to see it on stage all the time. Weird lumps in shoulders and stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. Judges don't look too kindly on those things, you know. Scott, love the show. Love all the shows you produce. Uh, question about any of the shows, acne scars and what to do about them. Um, I thought he had something to do about getting on stage, but I guess not. Um, a question for any of the shows about acne scars and what to do to help them. Um, oh yeah, and not affect your look on stage. So, um, if he's talking about discoloration, you know, like a recent acne and now there's like a red spot, generally the tan is going to cover a lot of that up. You know, your skin is going to look more even with any discolorations. Um, would laser help? Yeah. Yeah. I had peel stuff and things like that potentially. I I don't know enough about skin care to to really know what you could do for acne scarring, but I I would have thought some uh cosmetic dermapeel type stuff might might help. I was very prone to acne as a kid. And it wasn't until I ran my second course of the Accutane as an adult that I actually got my skin to clear up. And I did do a high-end laser treatment. It was my friend. It was VJ, my friend uh partner in in in crime. VJ, his wife does that stuff. And she uh worked at a place where she had this like real fancy machine and they went in uh this is 10 years ago. And I think there was some change, some improvement. What do they do? Um look into dermar rolling. That could be something worth looking into. They're like uh it's like these little tiny micro needles on a roller, Dave. and you it basically um just basically like breaks up the surface of the skin calling for new collagen and it breaks down scar tissue over time. It's a long-term process, but you know, I'm I'm I'm confident with where I'm at at this point, but that those are options. But yeah, as far as the discoloration of like newer acne scarring, a lot of that is going to get covered up with the tan. uh why do AAS negatively impact lipids and cholesterol or lipids/ cholesterol? So from a point of view of increasing LDL um we use cholesterol as a raw material um to produce hormones. We're not producing hormones anymore. So we're not using it. So we end up with an excess. HDL adulteration um is more significant in drugs that lower estrogen. Um so AIS um with the exception of aromomasin um and and drugs like mast and primo have a significant impact on HDL because they lower estrogen in the liver and liver is um key management system in in supporting and managing our cholesterol levels. So there you go. Yeah, that's the best you're getting out of me today. It like basically there's an enzyme that catabolizes and breaks down HDL, right? Something like that. Yeah. Well, it's it's a lot of it's around estrogen levels as well. So, as as we lower estrogen, um that has a more significant impact on on HDL management as well. So, there's a couple of processes going on. Okay. We've got a guy who wants to do his first cycle who's on TRT at 200 a week. Um I think that's what you're saying. been on TRT 200 milligrams a week for 15 weeks and planning to ramp up to 500 milligrams a test increasing by a 100 milligrams each week. I'd like to add Masteron starting at 200 milligrams up to 400 milligrams and possibly Anavar for the last 6 weeks. I also have Proviron but uh unsure if I should include it. Provron you won't need when masked for the simple reason it's not going to do. All right, it's a mild AI, but the lowering of SHPG is going to be significant with master anyway. However, that's a total dosing of 900 a week, which I think is excessive for a first cycle. I would keep total anabolics to 500 at the max, not including orals. Don't mind a little bit of an oral on top. I don't see any real benefit to the progressive. Yes, that's what I was too. Apart from maybe a reduction in total anabolic exposure over the period of time, it depend how long he's planning on running for. I I would either go two 300 tests, 200 m or just go all test personally. Yeah. Yeah. The I think that people think that like they're going to take that test and all of a sudden like whoa, I'm feeling good. I'll try a little bit more and see how I feel on that. You know, but it's a process of you take that more. You take a hundred milligrams more and it's like you're not going to really, you know, actualize that for a few couple weeks of repeatedly doing it, you know. Yeah. And I I think we, you know, it's human nature. More is better. It's a base sort of thing we seem to have as humans is more is better. More is better. Um, and it's not always the case. Um and as doses get higher you'll find that the incre the increase required in doses see significant change in effects is much greater. Um the the difference in effects between 1 gram and 2 g total um is not the same as the difference in effects between 2 g and 1 gram total. Even though you've gone up a gram each time you'll see a smaller change in effects from two to three than you will from one to two. M um and and that gets progressively worse as the dose gets higher. So the change from three to four is significantly less from two to three and and again from one to two and and so on and so forth. Oh, I liked this comment. Now Dave, you missed out on being in the UK. You didn't have the the experience coming. You would have I'm sure you would have if you lived in the US in the 80s and 90s going down to Tijana to get your supplies. Uh, but this guy says, "If you're desperate for real gear, just go to Mexico. Mexican pharmaceuticals come from legit labs and they love American money." Just saying. I used to personally know the largest supplier to the States. She supplied the Chargers, the Raiders, 49ers, Cowboys, and the Rams. She also supplied WWF, WCW, Ohio, and a host of other areas. the state of Ohio. She was the the sponsor for gear for Ohio. Huh. She got busted because of two girls I knew that got caught walking across the border. She was extradited for to San Diego for 6 months. During her time in the Clink, those athletes suddenly got noticeably smaller and softer. There were stillarmacies willing to sell real stuff even without prescription. Um, or there are doctors down there that are willing to give prescriptions for whatever you need. Generally down there, the pharmacist will tell you, you tell them that you have an issue and they'll prescribe whatever you need. At least that's the way it was. And I guess it's not that way anymore though, Dave. I guess that there's a lot of fakes in Mexico. You what? I have no idea. It's completely Brick spoke about going down to Mexico in the early days to buy stuff. There's a lot of fakes now in Mexico and and there are underground labs that are on the shelves and some of them are fake underground labs. So it's especially at the border towns and if you get away from that you can get like real testosterone, real proviron you I but not a lot. It's not like it used to be. I knew people too who used to do that. I had a friend former training partner Dave and he told me stories of going down there and loading up on like the injectable dbol. He actually showed me a vial. It was like a long skinny vial and it was waterbased mixed in B12. I forget the name of it. Yeah, I remember the long 10 ms and 20 ms that were like really stupidly long skinny things. They were weird. Yeah. Yeah. I I suppose it's very similar to Turkey was for the UK. You used to be able to go to Turkey, go to the pharmacist. They had catalogs on the on the counters and you could just go through and pick what you wanted. Yeah. Um, and some still do that, but there again there is much more fake stuff uh creeping into Turkey. I actually know somebody who went to Turkey for some surgery and the hospital prescribed them growth. Oh, okay. Yeah. And and the growth was fake. Oh, you're kidding. You're kidding me. Cuz he messaged me and it was it was Lily and I know Andrew who does the investigations for Lily and he messaged me and said, "I've got this Lily, but all the reference numbers, all the serial numbers are the same." Oh, I said, "Send me some pictures." I sent them to Andrew. I said, "Look, this guy legit threw a script through a pharmacist and he's concerned this isn't legit." And Andrew looks into it and went, "No, that's all fake. We've we've we haven't produced that." Wow. So, yeah, it it's it's much more of a problem there as well. So, it seems like it's a very similar scenario. So, I recently heard about Turkey. Now, this is nothing I've done any research on. This is heard secondhand that uh a friend of mine has a client that was in Turkey for some other business thing. And she said, "Hey, you know, while I'm here, uh you know, should I pick up my my prescription estrogen and anything else, you know, cuz I can get it at the pharmacy." So then turns out she tried and there was no place that would give it to her without a prescription. And I guess once again guys, I'm not trying to spread any rumors here, but them having regulations against trans that they don't want to be responsible for facilitating that type of thing. So that the that because of that there has been crackdowns on the purchasing of hormones in Turkey. Correct. If I'm wrong, anybody, you guys tell us, you know, but that's what I heard. I I haven't spoke to anyone that's been over there for for sourcing for a while, but I I do know that fakes are definitely much more prevalent than they used to be. Okay. Um so yeah, it wouldn't surprise me. All right, we had some other questions, too. We can't get to all of them, guys. I wish we could uh you know, leave them again, though. If if we didn't get to your question, we'd be happy to tackle them. U we had a bunch of questions like this. Dave, what size Protrich charger are you trying to get and what platform are you running it on? Fellow gearhead here. So, what the plan is as it stands. So, I have a Dodge Ram 5.7 Hemi 2013 and and I I have replaced the internals. So, it's forg pistons, forg rods, everything else, ARP stood, uh, forge crank. Then I've added a cam, which is heavy on the exhaust side, so it's more compatible with supercharging. I've added a 6.4 intake manifold, 6.4 throttle body, and 6.4 cold air intake. And it's being tuned by FRP and he's a Hemi guy if anyone knows him. He's an American. So it's a remote tune. Okay. Um it's got long headers with an aftermarket custom system going back from there. So this is a truck you're telling us. This is a pickup truck, right? So there's two that's what that's the part I understood so far. There's two truck projects. So this is the first project. Okay. Uh, I'm going to be adding a upgraded fuel system from MMX and then I'm going to go with a stage two procharger setup. So, it will probably be um I'll get the code wrong as somebody will pull me, but I think it's a D1 SC. So, it's slightly above their standard procharger. Okay. with an intercooler um and balancer etc etc. That should give me in the region of around 650 rear wheel horsepower. What do you need that for? Because it's fun. Um I am going to do a transmission rebuild. Um in fact the [\h__\h] was supposed to ring me back and he hasn't done. Just reminded him. Um, so it's going to get a transmission rebuild, but the stock, it's got a 7H 70HP in it. So, the stock um transmission should handle the power as long as I'm not a [\h__\h] with it. And I don't end up. Now, a lot of people have said, "Why didn't I go Whipple? Why didn't I go root? Why have I gone pro?" Couple of reasons. I don't want loads of highend low-end torque because it's not going to hook anyway. It's a pickup. There's no weight over the axle, so there's no reason for it. So, it's more What I'm I'm going to end up doing with it more likely than not is I'll speak American. Freeway cruising, okay? When little people in their M3s and M5s think that they've got power, they're going to suddenly realize they're going to be embarrassed by a um 20 a 12y old pickup truck as it just uh shoots off and destroys them. So, that's the basic. Plus, because it's my daily, a procharger gives me much better fuel economy at normal driving. Ah, okay. Guys, I got to tell you, I've been in the car with Dave driving. It is I'm not going to say terrifying, but there I'm looking for a word that's less a little bit less than terrifying. That man whose t-shirt you're wearing, Alex. Yeah. Oh, no. He's terrifying, you guys. So, the other thing is too that when you're in the UK and you're on the freeway, their fast lane is our slow lane. So, they cut over to the right and then just freaking haul. And it's kind of terrifying because I'm used to that being the lane you want to be most careful on because I'm used to traffic coming in that side. Uh, yeah. So, it's very it's very interesting, man. I did consider pushing things further. Uh, but I don't know how much power I can shove through a stock transfer case and diffs. Get a new one. Uh, well, I don't know if there's an aftermarket transfer case. I I'd love to take the truck up to a th00and, but not rear wheel crank. So, a th00and at crank. Um, I'd love to take the truck up to a,000 at crank, but it's what I'd need to do transfer case, etc. diffs in order to handle that sort of power. Obviously, a transmission rebuild's an obvious one, but I don't know what I'd need to do to handle that power. And then the other project is the nolva. So, I've got a 72 Pro Street nolva. That's a cool car. I like it. Which is uh a 427 Big Block. And that's what I thought the the Procharger was going to be going in. Like, I got to charge that thing up or something. I want a Roost charger on that. I'm going to put a um a blower on that. Okay. Now the truck is going to be running about 10 10.1 10.4 compression whereas the 427 is running 11.4. Um it's running TSW pistons, so forge pistons. It's got Ohio Ohio Ohio crank, ARP heads, studs, and everything. It's an oval head that's already been ported. Um, I don't know what the cam is. I need to try and find out what the cam is in that, but I want to put a roots type blower on that. Okay. I don't even know the stuff you're saying, but I can imagine what it was. So, that that's the thing that sits on top with the big belt. That's what I thought it might have been. The the MadMax looking thing. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so I want to put an 871 on that. But the issue I have with that is that's only a twobolt main and I don't know if it will stand it. I'm sort of the thoughts that well sold it put it on anyway and if it tears if it tears the main bearings out then we we we we need a new block anyway. So might as well wreck that block and and get a new one. Um, but I don't know. Uh, I'm um and on that whether I go that far. And hey, shout out to Derek for helping you with the try to get a procharger. Derek has been amazing. He has been really, really helpful. And shout out to him and his boss. Um, just two seconds as well because I did want to say that um, and don't normally do this sort of [\h__\h] but he's stepped up and offered the support to us. So, I did want to say that Oh, he hasn't mentioned the company he works for, but if he does, then uh I I'd love to uh I'd love to give big him up because he's been really really helpful. Do you think that they want to be mentioned on our show? I don't know. That's the point. I never thought of that. Yeah. But yeah, so that's that's the daily uh we'll find out because I I know the website uh to his company, but I we'll find out before we you know, maybe they're like, "Well, thanks a lot, but can you erase that cuz we don't want to be tied to YouTube, you know." Yeah. And if that's the case, I'm glad I haven't said the company name. Um but yes, so that that's that's the basic plan is is is a stage two procharger set with a DS1C. So, intercooler, valve release, balancer. Um, I want to get an idea on something here. I want to try some nice power. Let me ask you. So, what's the what's the average speed limit on your freeways? 70. 70. And you guys are miles per hour, too, right? Mhm. So, and I'm just trying to get a feel, guys, to explain to you a little bit so we can all understand how Dave drives. So, if the speed limit is 70, what's a good average speed limit or speed to do in a 70? I generally drive at 75. You be Are you being truthful? No. If I if I'm if I'm on the motorway, I'll generally do 75. I I do go quicker, but I will generally sit on the cruise control at 75. If it's quiet, I'll push it up to 80. It just depends where the speed cameras are. And what about what about if you need to get around people? Say there's some people doing things you're like, "Oh, these guys are going slow and I need to zip." What's a reasonable amount to go in a 70 to get around people? You know, when you have justification to do so, hey, it all depends. Uh I've been known to clip 90 and 100 before now. I mean, there's when I run out to the lab, I've been known to to clip 140 going there and just cuz there's no speed cameras or copers on that road very often. That's what when I drove with Alex, they were like, "Go real fast, real fast, and then all of a sudden slow down." And they're like, "Oh, yeah. See that box up there? That's a camera." I If I know I'm on a camera road, I'll generally just sit at 75 because the cameras tend to give you 10%. Okay. So, I'll sit at 75 and and that way I don't get a flash. Um, if I'm on a non-came road, yeah, it all depends on what I'm doing and where I'm going. I'm quite happy to toddle along some days. Other days I'll give it some [\h__\h] I uh there was one one point when I was going to school in Ann Arbor and uh there's this long stretch of uh country road and there was never anybody on it and it usually was like a 25minute drive from where I lived to get to Ann Arbor and I found it and it was like A-50 mph road. There were times, Dave, that I was getting to Ann Arbor in like 15 minutes. This is years ago when I was like I was like 22 or something. Oh, I mean years ago you could get away with it a lot more. I ended up getting a ticket though, unfortunately. I deserved it, too. He was shocked. He was like, "Do you realize?" He was like a new cop. He said, "Do you realize how fast you were going?" I was like, "Oh, I must not have been paying attention." I don't know if you have it over there. We have what they call average speed cameras. We might. I don't know. So, what these are is cameras that are set up with a set distance in between them. Oh, so they take a they take a picture when you pass the first one and they take a picture when you pass the second one and they time difference that to work out your average speed. So, they're like, there's no way you could have gotten here if you were Yeah. So, so you can't speed. Whereas a a stock speed camera, all you do is slow down for it and then you can speed back up again if you wish. But an average you can't do that because it's based on the time difference between the two cameras. So you have to stick to the speed limit throughout. I could see that for sure. Well, we we generally have about a 10% leeway, so I usually will sit sort of 5% over the speed limit. Yeah, we're 70 as well on the freeway. And so you can do 75 all day. You really could get away with 80. A lot of people are driving. Nobody's driving 75 or nobody's driving 70. You know what I mean? It's all 75 80. I mean, I came I came back from Wales on Sunday and I pretty much sat at 75 most of the way. Okay. Yeah. Um but then I had to go to the lab Sunday night and bear in mind I'd already driven about 500 miles at this point. Uh so obviously I wanted that trip to be as short as I could. Yeah. So I sat 80 85 most of that. Your truck is not not a lot of people have full size US-made pickup trucks out there. is I wonder so here pickup trucks are not going to stand out. They blend right in because every third second or third person has one. Is that gonna does that stand out on the road there? Like do you think cops will notice it? Well, I said we don't tend to see a lot of cops on the roads anymore like we used to. We we have it's just the cameras. We have these traffic officers who are not police and therefore can't arrest you. They can they can record they can record evidence and record but then they're for traffic management and accidents and stuff like that. Oh actual highway cops which we used to have a fair chunk of um we don't we don't see them very often now to be honest. I mean as I say in that 600 miles I drove on Sunday I don't think I saw one patrolling police car on the motorways at all. What about local like city and stuff? They tend to not bother unless you're one because they're not quick cars so they can't catch you anyway. Okay. Uh but they will radio it radio it in. Um but um yeah, I mean what what you can get over here is now the public can record you and send that in and you can get prosecuted that way. You're kidding me. No. Now they can't prosecute they can't prosecute you for speed. Okay. because it's not a calibrated right speed check. So they can't pro but they can prosecute you for driving like a dick. Oh, okay. Yeah. So people will use webcams to get people prosecuted for driving like dicks. Wow. Huh. That's rotten, man. I need to get somebody else in trouble like that. Keep to yourself. I mean, I've I've opened up the nolva on the motorway before now quite a few times. And I would hope so. That's what it's made for, right? But I've only just, you know, little short blasts and little traffic light runs and stuff cuz I don't take it down the strip because it's just a it's a fun car. There's this these guys that I saw online that one of them got arrested. His name he called himself Speed Benz I think it was. And uh I might I might be wrong on that name. Something Benz, but he was intentionally getting chased by cops and he had a supercar. So these guys will drive very fast cars and get into situations where then they outrun the police and they're like talking about like even outr running like you can outrun a helicopter and a Lamborghini if you have freeway you know that you can continue driving on and they would record it all and then upload it. That's how one of them got caught. There's there's definitely young lads out here. Maybe I don't know if it's so much now. When I was growing up, there were definitely lads out here that would would get a chase off the old bill so they could test their driving skills and try and get away from him. What's the craziest thing you ever did on the road? Never really done. I've driven at speed, but I've always driven at speed where I felt it was safe enough to do so. I've never been one that that's particularly been been one for swerving in and out. Oh. Um yeah, I played chicken with a mate of mine. Um never never did anything really, you know, but I did watch this this one one thing I I I played chicken with a mate of mine on the motorway and I I I I pushed him off effectively. Yeah. Didn't actually touch him. He I probably because I was full of [\h__\h] gear. Um Oh, really? So how old were you during this? first of all in my 20s. Okay. Yeah. And I I pushed him off to the side of the road and lucky for him there happened to be a exit ramp so we just went up there. Okay. Yeah. This is a friend. This is a friend. Dumb dumbest [\h__\h] I've done. Yeah. Um but generally my my my driving is not being super stupid. Good. And and these days I I I use the speed when it is sensible to do so. Yeah. Yeah, I I did one really dumb thing one time and I had my I it was a a Nissan little Nissan and it wasn't like a nice car or anything and this is I was coming back from the gym and over on our fast lane it was backed up because there was an exit on that side and so you had to like stop and then go and then stop and then go and when it was time to go I try to leave space and stuff. This guy tried to cut through the line and he had this little convertible car and he pulled right in front of me and pushes his way in like to the point where I had to stop on my brake and all that. Dave, I got so mad at him and then he gives me the finger cuz I honk at him, right? So I wait and when we know now we're stopping and going and stopping and going and when it was time to go I drove around him on the shoulder and then pushed my way back in in front of him. He had so mad. He was like he pulled out next to me and he was like pull over pull over. He was like some 50-year-old dude. He was like dude he was upset. I I don't I like I would have hit like it was one of I guess kind of chicken cuz I was like I'm going to hit him if he doesn't move. He had to let me in. Yeah, there was uh that was a long time ago. There was one um it was raining. Uh I was in the fast lane. Um there was a car in front of me, so it wasn't like I could go much faster. Yeah. All right. I wasn't right up the car's ass. I was giving him plenty of room, but I was giving him plenty of room because it was pissing down with rain. Yeah. And this [\h__\h] came up the back of me and started riding my bumper. I just ignored him. He was like, "I can't go anywhere. So, where you going to go?" So, he undertook me. So, he pulled took me on the wrong side. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then started hurling abuse. Oh, okay. So, so he got it back. So, he signaled to come off the motorway. And I was like, "Yeah, you fucker." Right. So, I followed him off and he pulled up on the labor. Now, this guy's got a young kid in the car with him as well. This is the bit that I thought was just ridiculous. So I pulled off and he gets out being the big one. So I got out. So he got back in his car and tried to get me to follow him. It's like, "Yeah, right, dumb fuck." So he drove off and I just got back on the motorway and went on me way. But uh yeah, I I turn I don't Shre suffers with road rage. She's terrible for it. For me, it doesn't bother me. It's like you want to be a dick, be a dick. I I just let you be a dick. You know what I mean? That's That's pointless. I let it go nowadays, too, man. There's I just try to Yeah, there's no sense, dude. And plus, here you will you could get shot. You know what I'm saying? It's like Well, yeah. I mean, to be honest, it maybe not shot, but getting attacked is um definitely something that I'm more conscious of these days cuz little dicks carry knives and then they they It's not that they're brave enough to use them, they're just stupid enough to use them. They might. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but yeah, I mean the other thing is it's just like who cares? I mean, y I you end up and this this is sort of makes a little bit of life advice for today actually. All right. You end up creating more stress and negativity for yourself. Yeah. By getting wound up by this situation than you do for the person that's causing it. And if you just let them go, let them rant and rave and [\h__\h] have their anger day and just, you know, whatever. [\h__\h] off. I'm not interested. Yep. And then it doesn't cause you any harm, does it? Yeah, dude. Either way, you're going to Yeah, I I'm 100% with you. I try to do the same thing nowadays and not get involved in all that stuff cuz it Yeah. I mean, there's the I mean, it's going to be nice having a truck with that sort of power that if somebody in a semiquick car thinks they're clever, you can just go. So, are you going to be able to You'll be faster than most of those cars on the street then is what you're telling me. So, I granted it's a box on wheels and so they're taking that away, but I will have 650 horsepower going to the road. And what do you like what do you currently have now? 300 and a bit. Okay. So, literally more than No, not even that. Actually, it's 400 at the crank currently. That's a stock 5.7. It's 395. 40 or five at the crank or something. Okay. So, what you got to remember, I don't know how the power coming out the engine is significantly reduced by the time it gets to the wheel. Okay. The more mechanical you links you have in that, the more power you lose. Because my truck's four-wheel drive, it goes through a transmission, then it goes through a transfer case. I lose more power. Yeah. So, a 720 McLaren, it's a 720 McLaren because it has 720 horsepower at the crank and put somewhere between 650 and 680 on the road. Okay. So, I will have the equivalent power on the road as a 720 McLaren, which is a supercar. Yeah. Yeah. And granted, you're not in the light little supercar, but but but can you imagine a man that spent in excess of £150,000 on his super car to have an old American truck keep up with him? That is going to be funny as [\h__\h] It'll be good. You need to get those uh dash cams is what you need so you can record this stuff. 3D. What do they do? They have the 360 cams that float behind the car. You need one of those. Uh but yeah, so it's silly things like that that will amuse me. I appreciate that, guys. We appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for hanging with us. And of course, uh go to evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave. Go to supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Strongports.com. That's Strongportsnutrition. There's a little comment section there. When you place your order, you can tell them that Dave and Scott say hello or just give them some crap. Tell them what what should they say to Richard? I don't know. Something something mean, right? Something awful. Something to get under his skin, right? He's just Oh, tell him that MMA is just an excuse to sniff other men's crotches. There you go. That sounds good. And just, you know, he can't argue with you. You're his customer. The customer is always right. Also, go to true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. And uh we appreciate you tuning in and leave us questions for the next show. If you haven't subscribed yet, guys, what are you doing with your life? Hit the subscribe button, hit the bell for another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosslin. We will see you soon. Thanks, guys. And thanks, Dave. And don't forget to contribute to the Supercharger Fund because I can't afford it. So, I need to save up. So, any help. Poor man here, you know, needs speed.