 This focus on minutia, so to speak, those small rocks, can keep people away from avoiding the, answering the question, how small can you really be if you're absolutely strong as hell? If you're absolutely strong as hell? If you just get buck strong, where every time you go and get your working sets, people are stopping with their jaws dropped, you're going to be a big mofo, you're going to have some muscle mass there. And people got there in decades past without worrying about any of these little rocks for the most part. What's up guys. B-Y-O-B-B coach.com. Check out the book there. You can also check out his training plan, Fortitude Training, and you can hit Scott up too for consultations. We're going to have a conversation today. Exactly the type of format that if you are interested in deep diving on a topic, maybe it's something to do with training or whatever bodybuilding related that you want to talk to Scott about, you can definitely hire him for that. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK for 10% off all of your basic bodybuilding supplements like high-quality protein powder, creatine, everything that they have. It's all the stuff that you need to reach your goals. Of course, supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Scott, I'm excited to hear what you have to say about this. It almost is like let's ground ourselves is what this reminds me of. Yeah. Because here's the thing, man. Sometimes we get out into the weeds talking about the science of bodybuilding and like you've called it, you're like, this is brain candy. And it is fun to learn. Some of it has definitely shaped my personal bodybuilding in the way that I've coached people over the last decade. But then to a point, we also have to kind of pull ourselves back. So my thought was this, man. All the cues that we're using nowadays, like if you go on Instagram, everybody's going to tell you like you're lifting that wrong. You need to do it this way. You go to social media, people are going to say like, you've been doing the squat all wrong all your life. Here's one simple tip that you need to follow. Use this cue. So we're using cues. We're using cadences more than ever before. Dude, I think that it has. That's the answer as to why I was able to change my back training and grow my back. But are we getting lost in the weeds here, man? Yeah. What about just getting back in the gym and lifting? This is the kind of question I've almost I've almost gotten this question explicitly from clients have come to me who are confused by like, holy shit, man. I feel like I need to agree in rocket brain surgery just to do a bench press, right? Rocket engineering and brain surgery in order to figure out how I should lift, right? It gets really confusing. Yeah. So we had some technical issues. So I was able to kind of do what I would have maybe done with a consultation. I put together a couple slides. I do slides a good bit with depends on the person. But once they have a formalized question, which you did, which was pretty was pretty decent, a really good question, then I can I can help guide them through my thoughts on the thing. So I have a PowerPoint. This was it's not going to be I haven't even looked through this. I just put them together. It's gonna be tons of tons of typos and shit. But we will not hold it against you. People love this stuff, by the way. They're like, man, Scott has these cool because I think that to see a visual component helps for our audio listeners. I'm sure you guys are still going to pick it up. But you know, of course, you can always go to Spotify or YouTube to see the video version. Right. Okay. Don't forget to just train your ass off. New Year's Happy New Year's. It's going to be belated. This will probably take a little while to get out. But so given that question, like what I did, I just put together kind of a table here, move some things that way. So I got the way so I can see what I've written. They're kind of a way one way to look at this. I really like this. Is there a big rocks and their little rocks or the littler rocks? Not that these things, as you mentioned very astutely, that you were able to bring your backup by paying attention to your execution. Right. Those things can't. They absolutely utterly have their purpose. But at some point in time, there can be kind of an imbalance on where the focus is going. So what I did is I listed here some of the littler rocks. Let's see. Get my pen together. And these are still rocks that still would want to be turned over when you're turning over all your rocks to make sure you've dotted your I's and crossed your T's. So training in the stretch position. I remember when some of the data first came out and the picture's not as clear as people at once were saying it was or what the data was suggesting. Not a bad thing to do whatsoever. John Meadows has had that as one of the components of mountain dog training. Do an exercise that trains in the lengthened position. That's been part of his program for decades, his programs. Right. But a more important thing, perhaps, is, for instance, to maintain your range of motion over time and apply progressive overload. So if all you're doing is like, I'm going to just train everything in the stretch position, I would just doing that in excess, let's say, sort of almost blindly, as opposed to getting a full range of motion, maintaining that range of motion over time, and then progressively getting stronger. And that's going to come up as a theme here many times is progressive overload, I think, is the big rock. In fact, I'll just say it right now. It's the biggest rock, I would say. Yeah. And it's the one that isn't. It was funny back in the day. There's the old guy back in the day. We used to walk uphill to school both ways in the snow and the sleet in the rain all at the same time. On intense muscle, for instance, that's because Dante's influence was so big there. And the logbook is central to D.C. training. People would post their logbooks. Right. It's like, this is what's important. And they would post how they'd improved and how their loads were going up. And people had, of course, just training logs there and they were documenting. That was the that was the thing you don't see. People don't post logbooks. Right. You don't see that very often. Like, look how much I've gone up here. That's not that's not a badge of honor, so to speak, nowadays. So that's an important thing. It's like that because that will happen if your range of motion gets shorter, you can get more reps. You will apparently be getting stronger, which could deceivingly suggest that you're make your growing muscle mass when it's not actually the case. You've just changed your your execution. The next one here is and this is a huge topic, but people have leaned now towards trying to use as many isolation exercises as possible, stabilizing themselves. So, you know, they're a device you can get to lock yourself down for a knee extension. Yes, actually. There's and there's actually some studies suggesting the studies are a little bit wonky. We could maybe do an entire talk on these that when you when you and this is in the next the next line down is that when you have accessory or remote activation like hand gripping, you actually can get better activation in those muscles. You're kidding me. No, there's actually a pretty if you look at the evidence as a whole freeway training and doing compound exercises, which would which you could sort of extend this to when you activating more muscles as opposed to just trying to isolate. And what is really kind of almost a non physiological way of activating a muscle muscles act? They they they function in concert with one another. Right. Yeah. Yeah. You squat down, you stand back up. There seems there's some research that suggests you can actually get better activation when you have that could be anything from there's there's this idea of neural overflow that you get better activation when you when you basically just allow the nervous system to go full full all in and full bore. If you're just doing a knee extension, for instance, one study suggesting greater quad activation in squats versus knee extensions. Interestingly enough, that could be because you've got some posterior chain activation balancing the joint forces. So you don't have the sheer stress. If you've got some hamstring activation, that's something that's safer for the joint. And there are protective mechanisms to keep joints from being dislocated. It's not going to happen on the extension. That could be one reason. But back to the second point. The thing that's also important is you can also develop a mind muscle connection. Right. You can just learn how to do a bench press with your packs as opposed to having to find the machine that is that allows you to do that without having learning neurologically how to do it yourself. So there's absolutely a place for someone who has a weak muscle group that just doesn't want to come up finding exercises that get funky with it, as Dante says, that force your nervous system, disallow you to use anything other than the target muscle. But the big rock is like first try to get it and develop a mind muscle connection. Biomechanically, the exercise might not be right for you for whatever reason. But don't neglect that and just go to the go look for the easy way out. Always when there is. ! LLathek, which is there. I've got four of them suggesting that free weights or remote active hand gripping or jaw clenching. People get the mouthpieces too. Yeah. You've seen those. That's based on this idea. Can allow for greater activation. Can allow for greater activation. Or there's one study even when they said intentionally don't try to activate anything I think except the knee extensors. And when they did that they couldn't activate the knee extensors as much as much as they could when they were given free range. It makes sense. Not to do that. It makes sense. Not to do that. It makes sense. Not to do anything crazy. It makes sense. But yeah. But yeah. So the nervous system, there's some synchrony that happens there that probably releases some of the inhibition that might be in place. Yeah. And I kind of feel like just visualizing me doing a leg extension, me being like real careful with it versus me just like grabbing those handles next, you know, because I've got handles next to the seat on my leg extension and then just like cranking those things up. A lot more is getting activated to do that. But it's kind of like the difference of trying to like precisely drive yet driving fast as you can while moving through cones versus just hitting your foot to the floor. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. There's actually one study was kind of the details. They measured quad activation doing a knee extension where there was no stabilizing. Right. So you're just in the and when you of course when you knee extend your upper body comes off. Right. The chair. And of course that doesn't allow for maximal activation because you're completely unstable. Like on a BOSU ball or what have you. And those studies have been done as well. So in that case, it did help to hold yourself down. Right. But then the principle is that getting something to hold yourself down. I'd be interested to see because I haven't seen that study exactly. Maybe it's out there. There's a lot of studies that sort of touch on this area comparing when you are strapped down versus when you strap yourself down. I think if you if you are really, really strong and a massive amount of your effort is going to just holding yourself in place on the knee extension, that's definitely not OK. That's definitely counterproductive, I would say. So you want in that case to be stable in the exercise so that you're not just fighting tooth and nail to hold yourself in place because you're so because you're doing knee extension with the whole stack plus 245. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That's so there is a middle point in there. But avoiding free free weights just because those create more central fatigue and they're more fatiguing might mean that you're not getting the activation you could be getting by allowing yourself to use bring those accessory muscles into play that you do you use when you're using a free weight versus machine. Yeah. That makes sense. And here's my here's my big one. Like so there is so and I get this. There are so many I hear so often that we want to avoid the central nervous system load, avoid fatigue, use isolation exercise, etc. The thing is, by its very nature, training improves fatigue. Fatigue is trainable. Right. Yeah. OK. Yeah. And that's the thing. Like so imagine imagine this is, you know, this is sort of a it's a thought experiment here to some degree. It's maybe a little extreme, but someone who just avoids anything, you know, that feeling like when you do multiple sets of squats and you're just wrecked. Right. Oh, yeah. You're or deadless will just, you know, just drain you. But eventually that will that develops some fatigue resistance without a doubt, probably multiple ways. That is something that's then trainable. To what extent that carries over. I have the suspicion that it does just sort of anecdotally that. And of course, psychologically, there's an effect there, too. When you've done deadlifts, basically to where you're not moving the bar anymore or squats. If very few people can really do this, train us a barbell squat, for instance. Do that safely. If you're going to do that, that's that's an extreme one. But when you've gone to true failure with those big compound exercises that do create a massive amount of fatigue and require the use of a lot of recovery resources, you get better at that. That's something that's trainable. So so don't neglect that. If you in one case completely avoided all those scenarios and for lack of a better term, just baby yourself through trying to avoid CNS fatigue all the time. Then that never gets trained. Then you never have that resource. You never have that that reserve available to you because you've avoided it. Take the person then that smartly chooses their exercises and balances their stimulus to fatigue ratios, et cetera. But they they have those days where they just let loose. But John would call like a challenge set. Right. We just kind of go bonkers. And you know that you can't do too many of those because you won't recover from them. But you do train you can train your recoverability by fatiguing yourself and then adapting to that fatigue that's induced by those those really CNS fatiguing exercises and efforts. Then you get better at those things. So so so if by avoiding the hard stuff, you don't get better at the hard stuff and then you're limiting yourself to just doing the easy stuff, which in many cases is going to want to get you to where if you're trying to get to maximal muscle growth over time, you're probably missing out on on a little bit of what you could be otherwise having. So and this one I threw in like new machines. There's AI've been I've gotten like four or five messages at least on Instagram. Have you seen this new standing knee extension machine? I think it's not out of Scandinavia, I think, or maybe it's it's Denmark, Norway, Sweden. Oh, oh, maybe I have. Yeah, it's not that I think about it. Yeah, it's like a unilateral thing. And you're standing up, right? And you're completely upright and you do a knee extension. It's got you like I've seen the video on it. Like they it's you know, it took them a while. Several prototypes. There are some new machines, man. I'm going to tell you right now there. Have you seen that? I forget what it's called. Is it the flex something? It's like a row that's on tracks. And you basically it's you just lean. It's kind of like there's a you lean forward. And then I can't remember you guys in the comments know exactly what I'm talking about. They have it at a lot of gyms now, but it's it's basically like a row machine that you're just kind of fix yourself into. And then you're basically doing a barbell row, but it's on a track instead. It's it's just very cool. It's very cool. Yeah, the whole track machine, like a strive machine that I haven't seen the strive machine that would do that, but I'll find it. I'll send it to you. But I'm sure our listeners know what I'm talking about. Yeah. OK. Well, it's interesting. Like this one, like, oh, that's that's that's having those variations. You get different activation patterns. That's something that can that can push adaptation and produce having the variety. I think is definitely important. That's definitely a stone. It's definitely a rock. Yeah. But interestingly enough, the idea there is that with this with this standing knee extension machine is that you have extension at the hip. Right. And people have done that before. If you have the right knee extension machine, you could take the seat off the back. Right. Or if you have those old school combination knee flexion, knee extension machines, ham curl. Oh, yeah. Quad extension. And then you could lie all the way back and get into that position. Right. And you're getting more stretch on the rectus from Morris. So you got a different loading curve there. Blah, blah, blah. So that can be done in that old school way. But finding machines you can do that on is hard. But there's also this the the sissy squat. I said sissy hack variations. But there's the Smith sissy hack that I have a video on. It's been out there for like 12 or 15 years. And that's what sissy squats do. And Tom Platz used to do sissy squats in the hack squat machine. That's probably why I wrote that that way. I was thinking about that. That basically is affecting the same thing. You're getting knee extension without as you would with the squat without the hip extension because you're in that extended sissy squat position. Right. And you're extended at the hip during that. So this is an example. Like I imagine like you see you've probably seen this. Jim gets a new machine. Right. And no one's done it before. So just there's like a line you go in. Yeah. Everyone's doing that. Right. Yeah. But there's not a line for people doing sissy hack squats and that the hack squat machines that's in every gym. And you people could be doing those. And they're essentially doing very close to the same thing. Like it's not exactly the same. But that is what we look for something new and different. This is how the supplement industry works. Sure. To some degree. I got the new I got the I got the the magic bullet that's going to create the quad growth that you never would have had otherwise. And people don't look and say, you know what? You can do a Smith sissy hack. You can do a sissy squat with the dumbbell or the plate or with body weight or in a hack squat. You can do a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred or a hundred  Those things are already there. So it's to some degree, it's a reinvention of the wheel. This machine looks awesome, I would love to do it, right? So there's that. One thing that can occur to my mind is, you know, reps and reserve training, with the idea that using that as a main variable to manipulate when you're periodizing your training, there's definitely validity to doing that. So I'm not throwing the baby out with the bath water there. I mean, some of the advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced advanced And this is the change in muscle size and standardized mean change. So easier sets further from failure. And the closer you get to failure, this curve generally suggests that failure training is going to be better than training with reps and reserve. And this is, I mean, what you see here, these are very wide margins of error, right? And you see, you know, you see outlier studies all over the place, right? But in general, we have this here. So that's training to failure has worked for years and years and years. And if the eyes, ooh, sometimes people think, oh, well, I'm, you know, I'm, this is science-based training, you know, I'm basing this on the newest, the most recent current status of the scientific literature. Well, this is the, one of the best papers I know of, especially because they plotted and evaluated with a meta regression, this relationship. And this suggests actually that it, if you want to actually be science-based quote unquote, not training to failure to getting to zero reps reserve, you're missing out. And that's what people have been doing for forever. And so, and I've got another slide. This is the, one of the main topics I thought would be cool to cover today, but this idea of perfect execution, no cheating, no body English, et cetera. And the question that we can get into with the next slide is, does beyond failure cheating, so doing cheat reps, add quote unquote effective time under tension? That's for the next slide. We'll get to that. So all in all this focus on minutia, so to speak, the small rocks can keep people away from recognizing that, or avoiding the, answering the question, how small can you really be if you're absolutely strong as hell? If you just get buck strong, where every time you go and get to your working sets, people are stopping with their jaws dropped, you're going to be a big mofo. There's going to be some people who are stronger than what they look like they are and vice versa. But if you get to where you're inclined pressing 275 for reps, and you're pulling five plates, six plates from the floor and squatting something close to that, and you've done that, it doesn't have to be those exercises, but you're the guy who's loading up all the machines. You've got the pin in the weight stack to add plates. You're going to have some muscle mass there. And people got there in decades past without worrying about any of these little rocks for the most part. They might have done those things along the way. This is where John was so awesome because he, if you're thinking about like, you know, you want to pile as many rocks into your wheelbarrow, right? And the big rocks obviously do the best job of doing that. But the little rocks also add weight, right? But think about the big rocks. If you want to get that, get there and make sure you've got the heaviest wheelbarrow as possible, as much muscle mass as possible, the big rocks are the things that are going to make that happen in large part. The little rocks also add to it, but form follows function. That's kind of my idea is that if you're strong as hell, the muscle is going to be going to adapt over the course of years and years and years to be much, much bigger than when you started. So after 20 years of bodybuilding experience, plus coaching countless athletes, I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to drywall paste consistency. So when I say that I trust True Nutrition, I mean it. In fact, True Nutrition is one of the few companies that I trust. And trust in this industry, well, it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep. 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot. Yeah, I see you out there. What makes True Nutrition different? You get to pick your base. I'm a big fan of the way ISO. You get to pick your flavor. I like the cookie butter lately. You can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts. It's basically like the supplement version of Qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning. Oh my God, my insides are on foot. Plus, they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies. You can cut off the middleman and go straight to the source. No proprietary blend nonsense. They're third-party tested and in-house tested as well. There's no guessing game. It's literally just gains in a bag. If you want protein you can trust, go to truenutrition.com and use our code THINK after 20 years of bodybuilding, coaching, and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes. Believe me when I say this is the good stuff. Here's some insight into what happens during concentric and eccentric contractions. So I'm going to show some – let me first sort of contextualize this. So thinking now about the set where someone has perfect execution, they're clean, they're crisp, they're safe, they're not – they've got the same range of motion with every rep, they're not being sloppy, they've got good mind-muscle connection, they've got good range of motion. Everything's really, really on point throughout their set. And then they get to the end of their set, and they might be a little bit faster. They might, you know, fly into those last few reps. Or they might even use in exercises where that's something you can do safely, use a little body English. The best example would be like bicep curls, right? And you use a little body. So you do perfect form, and then all of a sudden you get where, you know, you come to failure and then you explicitly do cheat reps where you use a little body English to take the load off of the biceps, but you're already at maximal activation to the extent you can possibly do that. And then you allow yourself – because you've done a forced rep, basically, with your own help, and forced reps would fit into this paradigm as well. So then you can follow with eccentrics. This is where this information really applies. So one thing that's important to know is that maximal activation of muscle is inhibited during eccentric contractions. Okay? So that's just – the hypothesis has been maybe there's some protective feature that goes on there. Basically, what kind of has to be in place when you're picking loads up and putting them down is there has to be some interplay between the concentric contractions and the eccentric contractions. And there are actually different areas of the motor cortex that are involved that will be lit up doing a concentric-eccentric couple contractions. So different motor neurons are a different population of motor neurons in the brain when you're lifting up versus when you're lifting down. And that's because muscle is intrinsically stronger when it's contracting and lengthening. So if you lifted with X amount of muscle mass and then you wanted to put that muscle down, so you've gone from a concentric shortening contraction to a lengthening one, you need to use less muscle because the muscle that you would be using is stronger on the eccentric. You have to deactivate in order to lower that weight. Otherwise, it doesn't go down. You have to use less muscle, right? Yeah. So this is a figure from my mentor's work from 1990 here. And this is the good old force velocity curve, in this case for quadriceps, on an isokinetic device. In vivo, in this case, we're looking at voluntary activation. So this is what happens. You're doing any extension. They say, give me max effort, and you get this value. So this is your relative to your voluntary max here. And then they allow you to do contractions. There are some particulars as to how they do this. With increasing speed and the faster you go, the less force you can produce, right? And eventually, you'd be trying to push so quickly, move so quickly, you can't produce any force. I call this the merry-go-round effect. You ever been the guy who had to push people on the merry-go-round, right? When it's slow, you can push really, really hard. You can feel it in your hands, right? And as it goes faster and faster, eventually, you can't keep up with it. And you try to swing. You try to move it as it goes past you. You can't. You're not adding whatsoever. It's too fast. You can't produce any force. You can't.  that they can they can do they can do they can do they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they can they you can concentrically. You're just simply stronger. This is why you can lower a heavier load than you can lift. That's just the nature of the beast. So this is the curve you get when you have the individuals perform these efforts voluntarily. So it's just their brain controlling the muscle. And then they had two different conditions here where they'll use electrical stimulation. So this bypasses all the inhibitory mechanisms in the brain, in the spinal cord, that prevent more force being produced during the eccentrics and the concentrics. So we see a different curve and the details. Oops, sorry, this was the voluntary curve, not this one. Oops, they overlap there. So this is actually the voluntary curve. That part doesn't matter so much for what I'm getting into now. So when you bypass all that inhibition in the brain and you just say, how much force relative to an isometric can we produce during eccentric contractions? The relative amount of relative increase in force is much greater. It's like 10, some studies show 20% more during eccentrics versus an isometric. But here it's like 40% more. That's what the muscle can do. When the brain comes into play and you've got an intact human with a spinal cord that's working and a brain that's working, you're not as strong on those eccentrics, but you're still stronger. So that's worth knowing. You can lower more than you can lift. Think back, we'll bring it back to this cheat or forced rep scenario. You take your set to failure and let's say you've got a partner who do forced reps. You can do several negatives, forced reps. You can lower that load several more times actually. So what's interesting here, this is another study from Peritesh. I think Dudley was part of this study too. They had a same deal, knee extensions. Here's the torque that's produced. So basically the force in the quad. And each of these dots represents four contractions. So they did one, two, three, four, five, six, seven times four, 28 maximal contractions, three different bouts. Maybe they had a couple minutes in between. So these, this is what happens to force when they're doing concentrics. This is the average of the first four contractions, concentrics. So we're over here on this curve. Eccentrics, we're over here, much more force. So we're comparing something like this versus something like this. Much more force right out of the gate when you just, just have to resist the machine as it forces you down. It's a maximal effort as if you're doing a knee extension, your partner is pushing down on you. Much more force that could be produced. And then they got to do that 28 times. You just do concentrics. So just the lifting up and then they just bring you back to a start, lift up and you do 28 maximal efforts that way. There's considerable fatigue. We're losing here about 30, 40%. You come back, you're not completely recovered. You 28 more reps. You've got the same amount of fatigue and you never come back because there's not enough rest time between. You're down here at about, oh gosh, it looks like it's 60, not even 70 Newton meters. Whereas they started 130, 140. This is highly fatigued. This is brutal. This is just, all of those are maximal efforts because the machine will only move as fast as it, as you've set it to let you move. Okay. How about the eccentrics? All you're doing is the lowering portion. What would be the lowering? Machine forces you down and you resist it with all you can. First of all, you produce more force and look what happens over the course of 28 reps in terms of fatigue. Not a damn thing. The fatigue is zippo essentially here. In fact, you kind of get used to it a little bit. There's a little bit of an upswing even. This wasn't significant, I don't think. Right. It's kind of a shock. Right. To do that, especially having done a lot of contractions like that. I've done these before and it's like, oh shit, like this thing's laying into me. Right. And it's coming down. It's not slowing down. How do you push? It doesn't slow down. It just goes as fast as you've set the machine to go. So you can do maximal excentrics out the yin yang. Oops. Sorry. You can do tons and tons of these. No problem. No problemo. So let's say now you're doing your cheat. So we're back to, is it okay to get a little bit sloppy? Is it okay to do forced reps? Because it's often suggested, eh, you just train to failure and then you're done. And that's a whole other thing that I didn't have time to get into. But what happens here is that you can go to failure and then what you essentially do is with a cheat rep or with a training partner who really wants to work you is they give you chest enough help or you give enough body image to swing yourself back up. You still have a maximal effort, essentially close to failure repetition, even though you're weaker. And then you can lower that load almost as many times as you wanted to. If you were chest lowering, the fatigue would be nothing. So you can add on to a set and go beyond failure. And this makes sense because what that is, is very, very high tension in those motor units that are being activated. And we know that this is very, very high tension because we have the evidence from the force velocity curve that during eccentric activation, the fibers that are used, the muscle that's activated produces more force. So you actually are producing really, really potent contractions when you're, if, if you were to do this, big caveat has to be safe, right? You can't be trying to do this on squats. Not a smart idea, probably not even with the, with the spotter. You're just looking for a low back exercise, but on some exercises you can do this, right? And that is a way to effectively increase the effective time under tension. And if you look at the literature, I didn't have time to put these slides together, but studies are very mixed as to this effect, but I think it was a 2015, somewhere around there, meta-analysis that Brad Schoenfeld did suggested that eccentric, if you look at the big picture, eccentric only training is better than concentric in terms of muscle growth. So another meta-analysis came out more recently and it, it suggested that possibility, if anything, but if you, at least, at least if you compare concentric, and this is the kind of the important point, if you, if you look at the literature, concentric and eccentric, comparing those two, eccentric is at least as good as concentric contractions for producing muscle growth and potentially better. So what you could potentially effectively be doing here, I haven't seen, I haven't seen this studied with cheat reps, although I love to see it, or forced reps, not that I can recall offhand, but you basically can get zero, add zero reps and reserve repetitions by cheating your way up or using a partner to bring the weight up and then doing eccentrics because eccentrics are at least as effective as concentrics for producing muscle growth. And if we look here, this basically would be, if we could take this curve and extend it this way, this is what we are basically, this is where we're going. We're going beyond failure. We've been going beyond zero reps and reserve. At some point, this probably, this may taper off. If you just keep doing too many of those and you can't recover, then that's too much. Yeah. But in and of itself, there is a rationale for doing cheat reps and for going beyond failure. And part of that is that we know guys have been doing that for years, right? It's not a new thing. So there's some empirical evidence suggests that that makes sense as well. So that's all I got on that. But I wanted to elucidate that idea of what the eccentric can do and what's actually happening there. If you do cheat reps is you're allowing yourself to go beyond failure and accumulate effective time under tension in a way that is likely very, very potent. But the devil's in the dose. You don't want to do too much. The dose makes the poison, so to speak. Yeah. So I will close this out so we can talk. So in short, yes, just train. There is there. There is.  Yeah. Yeah. And then also overturn all the little stones too. They gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta gotta on yourself. That would be not, there would be no evolutionary advantage to just uselessly expending energy because we expended plenty of energy. So take that into the future. And you're looking around like, oh, I can just, these little rocks, those will fill up the wheelbarrow. I'll just pick up all the little rocks. And you don't want to pick up the big rocks, right? But weight training, it's a very unnatural act, as I keep on saying, and picking up the big rocks is the most efficient way. In some cases, I really believe to get your wheelbarrow as full as possible. The little rocks might be neat, what you need to do. Once you run up, you hit a wall, you got a weak muscle group, things aren't working. Those things all have their role. But as you were saying, Scott, I think people have gone so far, like they're just focusing on the little rocks, right? And then the field's like, okay, we got all the little rocks taken care of. But you're still curling the 35-pound dumbbells, right? Or the 20-pound dumbbells. Pick up the big ones. The field's full of big rocks that you may not have considered. You may not have turned those over and put those in your wheelbarrow. So yeah, that was an awesome question, man. I can see how a lot of this stuff relates and ties in. And it really, I feel like we've kind of answered this question a number of times or aspects of it too. I remember one aspect of it being somebody that I work with, and this was a couple of years ago, we talked about it, but it was like, gosh, what was it? That somebody was just like being real careful with their stiff leg dead, because they felt like they weren't activating the hamstring properly if they just drove it up hard, you know? So they needed to like take it very slow and keep it all focused on the hamstring all the way through. And we had a whole conversation about if you've always done that, then the benefit of just putting your foot to the floor and trusting, there's something else to it is like trusting that the body, that like your body is going to work the way it's supposed to work. Like you have chains of muscles that are all going to work together. You don't have to tell those muscles like, okay, turn on the glutes, turn on the lower back. Like those things are all, it's all going to happen naturally, right? Yeah. The thing that happens to some degree too, the people we, this is, this has almost always been the case. The people that we look to, influencers, are the people that have the most impressive physiques. Sure. And there's genetics that plays an absolutely massive role there. Some people just look at the weights. Like one thing I saw with Dave, Dave was naturally athletic. And I, from the very first time Dave Henry, IPB pro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. And you could just tell he knew how to activate the muscle, the target muscle. He just had that natural athletic ability to do that. Right. So, I mean, I did this, I've mentioned this before too, like barbell back squats. I don't have the great, greatest biomechanics for those. And when I do do them, try to do them super deep and in a way that is more of a quad focused thing. I can't move nearly as much weight as I can if I just do a powerlifting. And I got up to doing six plates on a side for 10 reps. And I got a giant ass from doing it. And then I, but I spent 10 years getting there. Yeah. Yeah. I did it for 10 years. Right. And so that was the case that, you know, where it's like, okay, I think I need to change something here, change my foot position, you know, use a Smith machine, which works great then. But I gave that a go and I kind of learned that the hard way. I think you don't, I don't know if you need to do 10 years of that. Yeah. But I tell you what, I think I benefited from, from doing like, you know, there were times when range of motion was crap. But at one point I, I, I pulled eight Oh five on a rack dead for like five or six reps or something like that. It was just stupid. Right. Okay. But, but, but when you go back then to, you know, five 85, it was like a tingly wink. It ain't nothing but a peanut. So there, there's something to going down that path and seeing what happens and, you know, knocking on that door, going inside and saying, okay, this didn't work for me. So what your client was saying, like there, it makes sense in that, but that is one thing to consider. But if that's all you're considering is like, I'm not feeling it in the hamstrings. Well then feel it in the hamstrings and then keep doing that and keep getting stronger. And I don't think there's anything too terribly wrong with taking that one 35 and making it one 85 and making it two and a quarter. And then as long as you're safe with your low back and your execution and maybe doing, you know, getting to like two 45 and you don't feel it quite in your hamstrings, but you did, but, but you got a lot stronger and then go back to an 85 and you can do one 85 now with that mind muscle connection in place. And the nervous system does adapt to it. And this is part of what I was getting at in that, in that second slide is that, um, you, you will develop a fatigue resistance. Yeah. Yeah. That specific example. Right. So you knew you have been doing two 45, right. Uh, and with not the most perfect focus, mind muscle connection on your hamstrings, it's not absolutely ideal, but those sets are brutal. And you've developed an overall fatigue resistance and you reset. We, we talked before about some psychological things. You're rating up perceived exertion, what your standard is, the whole thing with the central governor. That was, those are brutal sets, right? And now when you go back to one 85 and you're getting to the end of that set where you've got this really, really focused mind muscle connection, you have a much clearer mindset because compared to the exertion level of doing two 45, maybe with not so much mind muscle connection, that's that doesn't compare. So now you can execute that set with that really good mind muscle connection because you have that comparator from having done those heavier sets when you let loose a little bit more. Yeah. So going back and forth between perfect, perfect execution, perfect mind muscle connection, and just then just getting stronger and particularly on the exercises that you do feel if, if you feel like, you know, whatever I do with a stiff legged deadlift, which I can't really imagine if you really, really do those strictly, you can, you know, if you're bending your knees and you're turning it into a deadlift, that's pretty clear. You can have, you can film yourself. You can have someone watch. It's like that. That's not really a stiff, that's not a Romanian. That's not a stiff legged deadlift. That's just sort of a, a deadlift with your legs that aren't playing as much. That's not really what you're trying to do. Your form is just off. You just need to get your form on, on, on par, but getting a little sloppy here and there, like, okay, yeah, I gotta be honest with myself. I broke form at the end of there. That became more of a deadlift and then just keep bringing it back home and you just keep going back and forth and back and forth until eventually you're brutally strong with the right form. Sorry, go ahead. I'm just going to say too, though, just another, another thought. And this is, so we, we texted about this yesterday and I sent my texts to you as I was on the treadmill doing my cardio and I do some warmup cardio now. So I was getting ready to work out and I was training back, happened to be back yesterday. And I was thinking about this topic while I was training. I'm not using nearly the same level of control that I was to, to like learn how to get the lats activated the way I wanted to. But for me, it, it kind of became a more like, um, training my back and doing a pull down, doing a row. It was more like a mechanically awkward thing at first because I was trying to do something I wasn't, I didn't normally do, you know, I was trying to retrain myself, but now it's at a point where it's just my second nature and, um, I'm, I'm not training hard. I'm not training to failure. And I'm also not using any kind of like specific cadence or control. I'm just doing the reps and using a decent, you know, like, like two, two, two count, one count, or excuse me, three count, two count type, excuse me, two count down, three count back up, you know, so you're using some level of control. But, uh, I'll tell you what, man, from having backed off and used cues and retraining myself. Now, when I go back to just like standard training, run of the mill exercise, you could video it and it just looks like nothing special, but oh my gosh, man, I'm sitting here talking to you today and my lats are so sore in the places I would want them to be sore. Like I, I retrained myself, you know, and now I just do it as a normal exercise. I'm not continuing on with that cadence, at least at this time. The, the, the mental picture that I use sometime and it's a mechanical mechanical mechanical mechanical mechanical mechanical mechanical mechanical mechanical  and this is a similar thing to what my dissertation research was based on. high, it, it, it, it, it, it, it parte parte parte, being super strict. And now what you can do, just like an e-stem machine, your brain can just switch the back on. That's your target muscle. It stays contracting. And all you do is, and you add with some body English, so it doesn't look, it's not like, you know, perfect, like straight out of some, you know, you're not a robot here, but that muscle is contracting. And basically what you're doing is flipping back and forth along that length tension curve, right? And you're, sorry, that's length tension, the force velocity curve, right? So the muscle is contracting with the perfect mind muscle connection, and you're not losing any potential tension except for the maybe change in velocity by having body English. But what that does is when you then do the eccentric, you, you don't lose the mind muscle connection because you've already trained that. Right. This is what I think people watch like Ronnie Coleman. Yeah. Like when he's doing Rose in the Corner, right? And Ronnie's back, you know, injuries aside, Ronnie's back was probably the best back, you know, Joel Stubbs, Ronnie Coleman, like, you know, but Ronnie's back was probably the best back ever to step on stage. His back was just tremendous, right? Insane. Absolutely insane. And I always had the sense in watching him, although he was using body English, you know, to help him with the weight up, he still got, he was, that was allowing to have a maximal voluntary activation of those lats and bringing the weight up. So assisting on the weight up, he was giving himself, even at the beginning of those sets, somewhat of a forced rep so that he could maintain that really strong contraction on the way down as well. Your average person who, who doesn't have, and Ronnie was an athlete who played football in college. Dave, Dave was naturally athletic. Without that, either training experience or the natural athleticism, your average person is just flop. They're just throwing the weight around. They don't have that mind muscle connection. But if you, just like having E-STEM on that muscle, you could literally do that. Let's take an example. Imagine a quad extension. You put, you put quads, you put electrodes on your quad, right? And so the quad gets activated and then you just hold it and you, you let it come up and then you push it down and you let it come up and you push it down. That's what we did in the E-STEM. We set up the, we, we, we, with the isochemic dynamometer in my dissertation study, we turned the quad on and the machine would let the knee extension happen. And then it would force the, the knee to come back down, or the ankle to come back down. It just allowed, and the quad was going the whole time, full bore, right? We actually put pauses between the reps because otherwise you get too much fatigue, but you could have done that. Turn the quad on and machine lets, it lets you knee extend and then it would force you back down. And then the next rep and the reps could just go. You can just do that with, and it stays on the entire time. Yeah. With a good mind muscle connection, you can have form where you're assisting on the way up with body English and maintaining a really, really strong contraction on the way down. Right. Like we talked about within context of the cheat rep and you just, and you're keeping the contraction as if you had E-STEM on that muscle the entire time. Yeah. That's a little bit over-exaggerated in terms of what a mind muscle connection could probably do. There's lots of things. There's lots of interplay there. But it makes sense. But that's the kind of idea is that Ronnie was, you know, it looks like, ah, he didn't have great control on, on those negatives, but he only got that weight up by having some knee drive and some body English to do that. And he had, if he tried to like, instead of what do you have? Like 12 plates on the rows in the corner, like just some crazy, he could have done those cleanly with eight. But what that allowed him to do was force rep himself on the way up with 12 plates and then have a massive eccentric overload and lower a weight that he could have never been lowering if he used strict form and still maintain that, that mind muscle connection and contraction during the lengthening phase when the weight was coming back down. So he was actually a lot by using knee drive, body English, and a good mind muscle connection. I'm hypothesizing, there's no EMG measurements or whatever, is that he was basically allowing him to overload that muscle, which he could keep contracting the entire time, rep after rep in a way that most people couldn't probably unless they're brawny or they're that advanced or that athletic and use heavier weight than he could have used before. Right. And that's why one reason why I think his back was so badass is because he could have a good mind muscle connection while he was being quote unquote sloppy with the form. And the force velocity curve suggests that such a thing is entirely possible. It makes total sense. Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad. I'm glad it's kind of complex, but that's always, that's always in the back of my mind, you know, is that, and you can do sets like that. I've talked this before where you, you have crystal clear, perfect focus, mind muscle connection. And then you say, okay, I got my 10 or 12 reps and now I'm going to let myself do three or four cheat reps until I can no longer control the, I'm literally, I, I can't safely give myself enough body in which to get the weight back down or back up. Um, and I can't control it, um, on the way down and then you're done. Then there's nothing left. Yeah. Then you're just being stupid and asking for an injury and wherever, where that point lies depends on the person and the exercise and whether they can even do that. Yeah. That's the thing too, is that to get to the end of your set. And if you've been doing reps and reserve, um, or, or you're not used to training that hard, you may not have the psychological wherewithal to, to make those an effective at additional effective test time under tension. Just, you just can't do it because it's just too hard. Yeah. And that's coming back to Hunter Labrada when we had him on this past year saying that like, you know, you train a failure as long as you can, you should train to failure. He said at least, at least seven years, the first seven years of your bodybuilding, if you had to put a number on it, he said five to seven years trained to hard failure at least. So that's a long time, man. That's longer than some of the people listening have been training for now. Yeah. It, yeah, it's, and some people like, like we talked about before, like people top out, this was in a couple of podcasts back at an RPE of seven to eight. You're only willing to trade as hard as you're willing to train, you know, until you've reset your bar, like the guy, you know, who'd been all those, had those, all those injuries when as a kid and his perception of pain was totally different or, you know, um, with the, uh, the cluster headaches, people have had cluster headaches. They rank everything else. being lesser. So it takes those years and years, seven years, let's say that's a, that's a good solid number. That's a good estimate. I would say to, of realizing like, yeah, I got a little bit more and you have, and if you completely, totally avoid those really CNS, um, stressing recovery, inhibiting potential, potential recovery inhibiting, if you don't play your play thing, your cards properly exercises that really, really push you, you don't bump yourself up to where, you're, you're kind of like the person who's, you know, I've had a cluster headache, right? Right. I've done deadlifts until like, there's absolutely nothing rep or I've done quadruple drop sets or whatever crazy, stupid shit. So now when I, I can train biceps to failure and it's like a walk in the park or, or I can do, you know, a hack, some of the hack squat sets and use reps in reserve as a way to periodize the effort of my training, or I'm coming, I'm going from being on cycle to off cycle. I'm going to not going to, cause I know I won't recover. So you, you actually have that variable available to you to modulate the dose of your training. But if you only know a hundred milligrams, all right, then doing two reps in reserve and getting 80 milligrams isn't, you don't have the play in there is if you know, 500 milligrams because you've done the 500 milligram sets, you've done the killer sets that reset the bar for what really hard training is and gives you that, that play in your, in your, um, in your program, uh, in program modification and adjustment. So, well, here's my thought. I hope that the listeners pick something up from this and I hope they can take it into 2026 and literally make the best games they have made in their lives. That would be sweet. Yep. That would be cool. Wouldn't it? Yeah.  I mean, I mean, law of diminishing returns plays a role, but if there's someone, you know, someone who realizes, you know what, like, that's been kind of the theme for like the formal presentation before and this one is that there's an extra gear that people have that they may aren't aware of, they haven't tapped into. So my thought would be like, how do you figure this out is like, go train with that crazy mofo, you know, who's not just complete, like literally complete lunatic. Right. Not that guy. Not that guy. Not that guy. Not that guy. Not that guy. Not that guy. Not that guy. Not that guy. Right. But train with someone, you know, or see if you can work in with someone or whatever, someone who will help you reset your bar. Yeah. And then it makes a difference. Yeah. Then you have a new person. I think so. Absolutely. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to byobcoach.com. Get Scott's book. Get the Fortitude Training Book while you're at it, too. Yeah. It's pretty cheap. Check it out. And once you've got it, you can also then join Scott's group, right? You've got the message. Totally free form. Answer questions for free. Yeah. And that's once you buy the book, you can, you've got a lifetime membership to that, right? As long as I'm alive and as long as I'm still in. And even probably, at least probably like the next, you know, 11 months after that, assuming you paid your bill. Right. You know, something for a year. I'll clone myself. There'll be an AI, Scott, that'll be as good as me, you know? AI, Scott. That'd be good. That'd be maybe even better. That shit's coming, man. Yeah. We appreciate you guys tuning in. Definitely check it out. Byobcoach.com. Just such a wealth of information in that book. And of course, go to truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements and supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They've got great deals on label change, short-dated products, stuff like that. So definitely get some good deals over there if you're in Canada. And of course, Patreon. I think we do have a couple of Patreon questions. So let's be sure that we wrap back around. We've got the one about the dizziness. We should tackle that. Yeah. We've got, I know another question came up on the latest episode that we released that we can tackle. Okay. And guys, leave us questions for the next show. Leave us questions on Patreon. I'm going to put up a new winter thread over there. You're welcome to ask questions for all the shows, but let me know which one you want it to be on. Definitely post some for Muscle Minds. Always a pleasure. And I think as of this year, we literally have been doing this show for a decade. Wow. Can you believe that? That's cool. Yeah. I didn't, you know, I was thinking about, I believe it. Yeah. That's awesome. That's crazy, man. Yeah. And that's why I said like for the last, the last 10 years now, and I thought about it, I was like, wow, it has been 10 years, man. It's, I tell you what, guys, if you go back and you listen to all the episodes of Muscle Minds, you won't be able to be helped, but your training will change. I promise you that. And it'll be a good change for the good too. So there's that. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, that's crazy. Right on. Guys, for another episode of Muscle Minds, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Scott. You got it, brother. Always my pleasure.