Favorite body part to train? Calfs. You can laugh at that if it's funny. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Parlo. I'm here with Dusty Handshaw and the producer Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. Remember your codes, Dusty and Big Ron. And we actually have another code in the house. We have mutant athlete and wheelchair pro bodybuilder and Olympia competitor James Burger. How's it going, my friend? That's good, man. I'm thoroughly happy to be on the show. And what's your code? Uh my code's uh J Ber WCB. Yeah. There you go. There you go. Okay. So, you can use that one if you want. J Ber WCBB. Okay. So, James, we're happy to have you on the show. We've been talking about bringing you on. Um Yeah. Happy to join, man. Yeah. Yeah. I'll I'll just give a quick 30 second preamble here for probably the last like five or six years. I don't know. Time blurs with how many years I've been with Mutant, but we've been sponsoring the wheelchair division of the Arnold and the Olympia. So I I always run down at the expo. I run down and I help give out the awards. Dusty's been coming with me the last little while. We hand out the, you know, the first place wheelchair Olympia championship or the Arnold title or whatever. And so we've been really back in the wheelchair division. We think it's awesome. And um and of course we wanted a wheelchair athlete on the team. And so why don't you tell us like how did how did you know joining Mutant and all that kind of happened? Um, well, uh, I basically introduced myself to George at the the Arnold back in 25. Was it 25? 24. Yeah. When I when I did that did my first Arnold there and it just kind of like things took off from there. And I know him and Chad, they were talking Chad McGomery, they were all talking. Uh, man, was it I was trying to put my foot in the door pretty much or front wheel if you want to say. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But uh no, I I ended up uh signing Chad and like I was super excited for Chad. Then terribly Chad passed away and then George reached out to me and was like, "Hey, do you want to join?" And I was more than happy to. I've been super excited about it ever since. I've freaking love all you guys. Like this is a huge family that I didn't know I needed and had. No, man. It's been great to have you around. and we've had you at the booth a few times at the big expose and um it's we usually have to wait for him because he's a little busy competing. Yeah, Ron and I can always be counted on to not make the Olympia or Arnold. So, we are at the booth at all times. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And like a lot of back and forth. Yeah. No, it's good. So, for the people just tune to tuning in like um you know, let let everyone know, you know, how did you wind up here as a wheelchair pro bodybuilder? I mean, the story of James Burger, you must have told it before. Oh, I love telling it. So, okay. So, starting off like, uh, I haven't always been in a wheelchair. Uh, I ended up having a car accident back in, uh, two or May 29th, 2010. As I do the drinking and driving, don't do that. You get a cool green wheelchair, but it's not fun, let me tell you. But, uh, the, uh, let's see. I was leading down a bad path and all that before the wheelchair and after my accident everything just kind of like you know abruptly you had to change life really quick like you don't get a choice you have to make it or break it type of thing and uh well let's see I sat there continued to drink kind of masking the pain because I refused to kind of take the anti-depressants or the painkillers and everything so I just kind of I drank as a anti-depressant but something oh yes uh one they uh just something clicked and uh told me to give it up and find something else to do with my life. And at first I started off wanting to do uh the parolympics like the powerlifting and stuff because I seen a guy in a wheelchair bench pressing like over 500 lb. I was like that's cool. I want to do that and right so I got started into that training for that trying to qualify for that kind of stuff and then uh bench pressing started hurting my shoulders and I am deathly afraid of pushing my butt around in a circle because I refused to go to an electric chair. So that's kind of one of the thing and then uh one day so I was on YouTube and I found Nick Scott on uh YouTube as the motivational speaker and sat there and just started watching all his stuff and then the wheelchair bodybuilding popped up and then I seen Harold and Gabriel and all them I was like well if these guys are looking like this in a wheelchair I want to do that. So back in 16 15 I started uh transit I transitioned over to uh bodybuilding and I did my first show in 2017 at the battle of Texas. I won that one and then I took some time off. I had to deal with some like health issues. I developed like a pressure sore from sitting down in my chair way too much and it opened up like a big hole underneath my skin on my hips. So it's like trying to stay off of it and not train and I got bad thing is I got like terribly sick and I basically hospital stay sick and it was not fun. So I ended up having to have a surgery to uh fix that whole issue and it was like a 12week like laying in bed type of thing and not moving or getting up like I couldn't even raise up like 10 degrees. So like having to lay down for 12 weeks in a bed is possibly the worst thing ever. Like no kidding. Um because I'm one of them guys that's like I have to get up and go. Like I'm on the move all the time and being like staying and still in one spot just really sucks. And what's bad was is like I had to stay in a skilled nursing unit but was a basically a nursing home for 12 weeks. I will never go back to a nursing home. I get blazed glory if I have to go back type thing. Right. But uh then back in 22 I uh went and did uh wheelchair nationals down in West Palm Beach and I ended up winning there and got the uh what was it placing overall for the uh incomplete spinal cord injury. So I'm an incomplete break. So I have what was it? I broke T10, 11, and 12. So like our so each level of the vertebrae affects each spot on our body. So it's like the lower down the the more you have. So it's like I'm a since I'm an incomplete I have my hip flexors but I stopped losing feel I stopped losing feeling and function about the top of my hips but I'm able to like kind of like hike my leg up and everything but like say like Nick and I are the same level but he's an incomplete but he uh is able to stand up with leg braces. Huh. Right. Where it locks his ankles and stuff but he's able to like flex his quads and keep him standing up for like a little bit of a time. with me. I can get up with like KFOS, like the leg braces that lock my knees out and everything. And I kind of like penguin walk with those, but that is so hard to do. So, I rocked the chair. And um then after that, I just have to kind of smash the gas ever since then and just been competing. And I took what was it done? That's a very bodybuilding way to put it. Yeah. Right. That means a lot of things. Yeah. Yeah. A lot. Let's unpack that. the T3 and the T4 and then Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're speaking our language. Yeah. Yeah. Anyways, you're shredded. I'm getting there. I'm getting there. So, like right Well, right now I'm what is it? Five weeks out. Five weeks. Yeah. Five weeks out from the Texas Pro. Going to do that one and hope you get that for sure Olympia qualifier is what I'm hoping for. Hell yeah. So, what's your best your best placing so far? take us through your your best placing so far. So, my best placing so far was here at this past Arnold and I placed second. Like that was like a huge step because like at Olympia last year I placed eight and then just turn around and like just kept in it and I turned around and placed second and like I beat Harold and Gabriel like the two OGs of like the you know the wheelchair class and like I was super ecstatic about that and like I'm still kind of clad back for that. Yeah. Yeah. Those two guys really kind of built that division, didn't they? They they really have. Especially Harold. Yeah. Yeah. Like they are the face of the wheelchair class and it's just kind of like I want to be one of those guys type of thing. It's what I'm striving for. Yeah. Yeah. What what what was the hardest thing? I know these are these are questions like Oh, you're fine. you must have you must have answered them a million times. But, you know, looking back, what you know, I mean, we we talk a lot about challenges here and overcoming stuff and all that sort of thing. And I think to a lot of people, you've gone through one of the ultimate challenges, you know, and and I mean, I think a lot of people feel that way. And so, what what can you say would be some of the hardest transitions that you've had to make since your accident? And and what do you think bodybuilding has done to help you through that? Dumb. The hardest part to transition was literally trying to readjust to life. Like I literally like after an accident like this, you literally have to relearn everything. Like they even had to like retach me how to brush my teeth from sitting down in a chair. Like that is the weirdest. Like it's just brushing your teeth. But no, it's like you really have to like sit sideways next to a sink and it's like lean over and brush your teeth like and try to keep your balance without falling over into the counter. I mean, it's little things that you take like abled body you take for advantage. But whenever you lose all of that, like you have to have a whole different perspective on life. Like you really appreciate the little things. It's like the one thing I get asked the most is what do I miss most about walking around? It's putting my hands in my pockets. H because like how awkward is that? Like you're sitting down and putting your hands in your pockets. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Valid point. Things you wouldn't think about. No. It's like that is like one of the mo because walking around I'd always have like my hand in like one pocket or at least my thumb on my pocket, you know, always or in your hoodie or something. Yeah. Right. But now it's like eh what do I do with my hands? You know, like the Ricky Bobby thing just kind of Right. Your hands are what you get around with. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And it's like the cool thing is you got like a grip strength. I broke I crushed an apple once. That was like the cool Oh, [\h__\h] I'm curious about training, you know? How how is that different? And did you train did you lift before the injury or is it something that you found the passion for afterward? So, like in during high school and everything, I played football. I did the whole sport thing. Rain track did all that and power and I did powerlifting in high school. Oh. Okay. So, but um after high school I kind of like got away from it but I was always super active and I was always just kind of like that farm boy strength like super strong like because as uh that right but like I did I was a uh I worked on the road as a welder. So like constantly had to picking up heavy things and all of that but then by accident kind of like I saw a strong back but um and I was like what is it kind of struck tracking thought um but uh no I've always kind of been into the fitness stuff but just not as much as I have been until like now. So that's why you had that immediate attraction to the powerlifting because you'd already done some of it. Yeah, I was like super familiar with it, but it's kind of like uh bench pressing from like this really thin bench like not having that balance. Ah really it's really hard. Oh yeah. Like that's like you see the guys like put their feet up on the bench and do like a bench press with their feet up like in the air and stuff. I'm like yeah we have to do that but you still have more balance than I do. You're still using your feet to balance. You're not Yeah. Yeah. Like I'm literally trying to like balance myself with like my shoulder blades like crammed down onto the bench trying to like squeeze with my shoulder blades and still push weight. That's hard. Oh yeah. Yeah. No kidding, man. Yeah. And leave it, by the way, just to back up for a second. Leave it to the south. It's only kids from the south that were like, "Well, I did powerlifting in high school." Us up in Detroit, like none of us had power. That was not even a thing. So that's that's definitely a southern thing. It feels like the more south you go, the more manly high school gets. Yeah. Oh yeah. It's a rough life in the south if you're not tough. Yeah. So benching is very different. And that makes sense to me because like I'm thinking of how I was taught to bench and they're like, you know, use your feet, you know, drive through the feet, you know, drive through the floor. And I and I think about like you're doing that with a lot of exercises and you don't have that. So there's got to be like way more core stability than in everything you're doing. Oh yeah. So it's like my core and stuff like I have to do like a cable crunch like Yeah. to actually overload my abs because like I'm upright. I'm never leaning against the back of my chair. I'm always sitting straight up and down. So like this is me like you can see me lean back but like this feels more comfortable because I'm straight up and down because even at like the expose you guys can sit there and see that I'm not leaning up back against my chair at all. It's just a posture thing cuz like as soon as I start slouching my back starts to hurt like it's just those little things like I start hurting like really bad. But um the whole balance issue that's that's that was a really hard thing to overcome and try to figure out. But like once you kind of figure it out, it just clicks and it's Don't you use your belt for things too? I think at the Olympia you did some stuff where you wrapped your belt around the bench and yourself like on an on a seated bench. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah. I do use that like so if I'm doing like say a dumbbell like shoulder press like I'll use I got a really long like or I said an extra large like velc belt the big one I'm just a little guy but um I used one of those belts and it keeps my core and everything like in place so I'm not necessarily having to worry so much about my balance like I'm still having a balance but it's just like it's kind of like a piece of mind type of thing. Yeah. Yeah, it's it kind of keeps me upright and not falling over because like once I start like tipping, I'll just I'll go. There's no stopping. Yeah. There's no foot to pushed in. I thought that was really cool when we were at the uh your photo shoot after the Olympia. I saw that and I was like, it's funny because it's a very obvious solution that when you don't have that, you don't think about like the amount of things you don't think about. Like you said in training, I mean we tell I mean all athletes when they set up for any lift, you're like start at your foundation, start at your feet. Yeah. And now you're like, okay, I have to do the same stability somehow. Mhm. And start at my hips and glutes. Yeah. You know, which is it's wild to see. I'm fascinated with the the physique that you and and you guys have built because if you were to just see your upper body, no one would know. I mean, like your upper body can hang with anyone in any gym and it's just one of those things. Do you find a lot of people ask you questions um to kind of help them get through trivial [\h__\h] in comparison to what you've done and and and use you as a a motivation or something to kind of help them understand like you know like we had Joe on that had been that had lost his vision uh in war and it was like he's like things could always be worse and and when you hear stories like his and yours you kind of go well damn I mean if he can build that physique with a hundred reasons that makes it more hard. Why can't I? Um I get that question a lot. It's just like uh they sit there and they tell me like I'm super inspirational and I get that but it's like you know I'm the same as you guys. I'm just doing everything setting down right is the way I think of it as it's like I don't think I don't set my me personally I don't set myself apart from anybody else. I just have a place to set everywhere type thing. It's like I don't mind waiting in line because I got a seat. I don't but uh no the uh but um no like trying to well use all of using the chair as a motivational thing. I mean, I love inspiring other people. Just basically, it's like, you know, if I can do this from sitting down and having to change my life drastically for literally down to everything, like going to the bathroom, like it's like everything changes so much. Like, but it's just like if I can do this and I have all these excuses that I can use to not get out of bed, right? Yeah. What's your excuse? Mhm. And it just kind of like it dawns on him like, "Oh, well, I I I don't really have one. I just didn't feel like doing that today." I'm like, "I don't feel like getting out of bed, but I still do it because I know I have to," What What do you think are some of the things that um you have to do differently when it comes to getting in condition? Because I mean, you were in great shape at the Arnold. Like, you were ripped. So, like, you know, cuz I'm thinking, you know, resting metabolic rate, yours must be lower because you have less activity in your in half of your body, so there's less calories being burned at rest. So, you must diet on lower calories. That's what I was wondering, too. Right. And and and then what about cardio? Do you count your like your do you count your steps like how many cranks you take on your wheels or do you do are you doing handbike cardio? or you going doing laps around the track? Like help help the other bodybuilders kind of understand, you know, compared to their 2500 calorie diets with their 40 minutes of cardio. Kind of help help us understand what you do to get in shape. Okay. So, so um I would love to eat 2500 calories. I'd be so happy. So happy. But no, I have to do it. Basically, the best way I can think of it is is that I ate almost like the same portions as almost as like a bikini competitor. That's what I was going to say. In their in their offse. So, it's like like I literally do like was it I measure everything out. So, it's like 4 ounces of protein and it's two and a half ounces of carbs and half an ounce of fats. That is literally what I eat every day. Every meal. Every meal. Right now I get some oats in the morning. So I'm still excited about that. Like I feel like those are going to be pulled like anytime. Right. But all the numbers would be thrown out for you. All the all this kind of standard formula thinking would just be out the window. Oh yeah. But it's like for like my cardio and stuff like so far like I I had to do what is it an hour of cardio whether it be on a handbike or a ski urg. Okay. part where you pull the steel. Yeah. Have you ever done that for an hour? No. For 30 seconds once just to try it out. Tell people what I thought of it. Yeah. It's it's awful. It's a whole other level of it's a whole other level of self- freaking harm in my opinion. Yeah. But uh no, like I would have to do that for like an hour if I don't have access to a handbike. I go find a skier again and like I black out about 10 minutes in and like I I hope that I make an hour but it's like my uh even it's like on a handbike my Apple Watch counts my pushes. Okay. So it's like you got it counts your guys' steps. It counts how many times I'm I'm physically just pushing. I I average about 2,000 pushes a day. Okay. So, but on a handbike I'm doing what is it basically was it a five or 10 I'm doing like almost 12 miles in an hour just to get my heart rate like move like I'm trucking it like just because my shoulders and everything I'm so used to this motion it takes a lot just to get me burning right everything but so far like this prep since after the Arnold I haven't had to do any cardio and I'm so happy about that because that's a really long hour. Oh yeah, no doubt. So what would your calories be? Do you like how how low do you does your carbs get and stuff like that? Like give us the give us the bad sort of four weeks out diet. So like leading to the Arnold where you were peeled. Yeah. Yeah. You were peeled at the Arnold. So how low were you there? So there I was doing. So what what I do is I uh for so this week I got this week left and I I could do still do ground turkey and chicken, but like four weeks out I switch over to fish. Mhm. Because then it doesn't set on me. It doesn't bloat me. My body digests it so fast that I'm really I don't even know what the calorie count is. My coach just tells me to eat it. Um yeah, we do a good Our clients don't know either. We don't know. I don't know. So much easier. But no. Um, so I'll end up doing I think was it at the Arnold I dropped down to three ounces. Oh my god. of fish per meal. Per meal. And I was doing um two weeks out I was down to three ounces of fish and like 2 ounces of greens. And uh what was it? My fat source. I was doing uh what was it? I want to say it was a large egg. one large like a day like one one five five grams of fat 10 of those a day every meal each meal each meal each meal got after that like I he pulled like my my oats and my protein powder and stuff. So it's like I was just I felt like I was dying. Yeah. Yeah. But like I but I felt really good like clearminded and everything. It was really weird. Usually I get that prep brain and just kind of like in and out and not I'm there but I'm not there type of thing. Oh yeah. But this past one like I felt like really good. But uh I know the week before it's like that's whenever we started like carb loading or like three three or four days like right before we started carb loading and um I use this stuff called uh rice and grinds and I don't know if you guys have have you guys I don't know if you guys Yeah. Yeah. But with me it digests so fast and it doesn't set on me like at all. Like otherwise I was have to do like rice. But now I got the rice and grinds and it was just like night and day difference. And I was like each morning like each day I was like waking up like fuller and tighter. I was like this is sweet. But um I know like the before the show before I even went on stage at the Arnold shoot I ate three times and it was like basically loaded up on rice and grinds and bunch of rice and Right. Just clean carbs and Oh yeah. So, it's like I I don't get to do the uh my coach calls it the circus stuff in the back like the rice the rice cakes with the jelly and all that. Yeah. None of us do that either. Like ah I'm like watching other competitors like eating like Snickers or like a freaking drinking Mountain Dew and I'm back going, "Man, I want one of those." He's like, "Absolutely not." Like fine. They all got called out before you, meaning you you were still waiting to be placed. I don't think their stickers were that good. No. No. Yeah, second place probably tasted a little better. So, did you guys see the uh what was it? Whenever after the comparisons, whenever they did the first call out, they forgot me. Yeah, I know. There was a weird call and then they added you, right? Yeah. It's like it I went to the side and then like just paused for a long time and then like then they called me back out. I'm like, "Okay, I feel better now." Yeah. That was a long break for you. Even if it was 2 minutes or a minute, it was Yeah, it it felt like forever. And I knew that you had gotten eighth before. So when Dusty and I went down to give the awards, like we were backstage, we couldn't really see everything, right? But they started to announce placings and I was like, "Oh jeez, James is second. Like we're handing out the awards." I'm like, "Oh." You know, like it was awesome. It was good to see. I know. I was so pumped. Like it's like whenever they me from like at the end at the first call out, they moved me like next to Harold. See, it's like the thing is whenever I'm up there, I'm not paying attention to who I'm next to. It's just I pay attention to or anybody's chairs. I pay attention to everybody's shoes. Okay. I have I have a shoe thing. Is that a big thing? Is that a thing with with the guys? It's It's an unwritten rule in the wheelchair class. You better have your shoe game like on point. That's why I wear that's why I wear my green ones to match my chair, right? Ah, okay. Yeah. So, it's kind of like kind of like, you know, picking posing trunks and all that stuff. if you want or like a physique guy's really concerned about his shorts and all that stuff, right? Mustache. I got to pay attention to this now. That was Yeah. Now I'm going to be aware of I know I'm going to be so focused on the shoes. It's like It's like if you look at like Nick Scott, you ever notice his shoes? Yeah. Okay. I haven't I never noticed his shoes. Never have. I don't know how you couldn't notice his They're so bright. They're gold. Yeah. And his chair is all lit up. He's got like the we used to call them uh when you're you know underneath your pickup truck you put the like purple lights that glow on the road and we used to call those the sex lights and I thought he's got he's got sex lights on his chair as rolling across the stage with that purple glow seen. Yeah, but he's he's done amazing he's done an amazing job to promote the wheelchair division. I mean, I think it takes it takes a guy like Nick who's just going to be out there. The silver sequin jacket, the gold shoes, like look at me. Look what we're doing. Oh, yeah. If it wasn't for him, we wouldn't be anywhere near where we're at right now. Like even on the Arnold, the crowd of the Arnold was insane when you guys Oh, yeah. cuz we walked out and we Ron and I got there a little too early, so we waited for a while. We had to watch the bikini girls. And then when you when we came out on stage, I was like, "Ron, look at the crowd." He's like, "Oh, I saw I mean it was standing room only." It was massive. Yeah. And that's a thing that because I've been doing like Dusty started coming with me lately, but I've been doing that now for like years and I used to go to hand out the wheelchair award and the crowd was really thin by then because everyone had seen Bumstead and stuff and they'd all kind of screwed off. Yeah. And but this last year like we were like there's packed. Yeah. That's like it's a So going from like at Olympia this past year, dude, it was like a ghost town when we were on stage. Like really because they put us on like right after Bikini and then after watching 80 bikini girls go on stage. You're just kind of done. Everyone's got to pee. Yeah. Everyone's got to pee and like doesn't come back type of thing. But it's like we're sitting out on stage and it's like I go out on stage like you know do the front those first comparisons and it's like there's nobody in the crowd. I'm like well this kind of sucks, you know? It's just kind of like it's hard it's what is it? It's kind it's hard to stay motivated whenever it's something like that. But we just keep we just keep pushing because I know it's going to get better. Then whenever the Arnold came around like it was a whole like literally a night and day difference for us. Like it was I I was feeding off the whole energy in the whole crowd. Like it was great. What What are the What are the mandatory poses like? Do they ask you all the same poses basically? Like how modded has it been? It's literally It's all the same. I mean, we do all our quarter turns. I mean, we do the what is it? Front double. Front lat. Do we do uh rear double, rear lat, tricep, ab side chest? It would do side chest and then um ab and then most muscular. Is your um chair does is it the same chair you use all the time and the back comes off or is a separate chair? No, it's the uh same chair. So like what I do is is like since I set my chair like kind of erggo sitting. So it's like I set like this. I sit down into it whenever I'm like I'm training or every day type of thing because like I got more stability and like I don't have to worry so much. So your butt drops really drops into it. Yeah. But whenever like I'm on stage and everything, I have a towel and stuff and I put underneath my cushion which picks me up level so I look taller. There's a trick with And it would show more of your back then because you'd come up higher out of the chair. Right. Because like I have more detail in my back in my lower back than what like you could see like right now if I spun around. Right. Right. Right. Right. Um now what about the ab shot? Do they I know some guys have better control of their abs. Right. Mhm. Right. They do. So, is it just kind of luck of the draw? Like if you got better control of your abs, you're going to do better in the ab shot like So each So like each one of us is like a different level injury, right? Yeah. So that affects our abs, right? So if like say that so since I'm a T10, I have my hips. So I have all of my abs, But say if you look at say Bradley Betts, he's got he's a higher level, but he's only got the first row of abs. So, he's able to flex the top two or the top row, but nothing else down below. But it's all in our conditioning. So, it's like Brad beat me the first time I went and did the Arnold like it's not just about abs. It's all about the It's the conditioning that we can bring. Yeah. Yeah. That's interesting cuz like in a say traditional like just open bodybuilding, if one guy doesn't have the same amount of abs, let's say, you'd just be like his abs aren't there. to be like, "Oh, well, he he automatically is not as good as this guy." So, is it then judged slightly differently in this case because he literally can't have abs like or does that give you an instant advantage? Because I feel like if you got all the abs and I'm like, man, that guy's abs look great. I'm going for that guy, you know? So like from a judge's point of view, I would like to think that they see us differently because they see they know our injury level because Nick Nick goes up and explains to explains to them, hey, our injury levels up and down type of thing. But u but for say like somebody watching in the crowd, they're not going to understand that. And that's why um Nick does the uh stories, right? Yeah. Nick always explains for those who haven't seen Nick always gives a little like 20 second sort of roll out for every competitor before you guys come out and pose right kind of gives us look gives a little background of what happened to us and then like some of our stories are crazy but it's like uh then but each and it tells which level we are so it kind of explains like hey this guy may not only have like two rows of abs this guy has but it's like literally the judges I feel like end up coming down to like the conditioning and the like the fullness of the size, the overall look. Yeah. What What about I What about I I got to take us to the gym. Um we're in the gym. Like what body parts do you think you have to mod your training the most? I mean I like how I mean you know I I mean everything's modded. Obviously you're doing it from from a chair and you're strapping yourself into machines and stuff, but um you know like what what are your kind of core exercises and and you know how are you training your back? how you training your chest, you know, what what do you use typically? So, back day is probably my most complicated day for me to train because I'm strong and I can move a lot of freaking weight, but it's really the setup and strapping myself in and like say like so I do like a a uh a row, but I used on a cable machine. Mhm. But I'll pull the stack type of thing, but I'm having to strap myself to a bench that like a adjustable bench. Yeah. So, I'm sitting low enough where the my center of gravity's digging into the ground. And then I got that bench like basically in my face the whole time, but I'm strapped to it so the the cable doesn't yank me around the side of it, right? You have somebody that goes to gym with you and like hands you the cable to start and does all that. Either my coach or my training partner, whichever one's not busy that day type of thing, right? But now I got a compet I got a competitor and he's uh basically my training partner and everything. So he's we kind of work out together, but he's pretty hands-on. He'll make sure that I don't fall and hit the floor, but if I do, we just kind of laugh about it. It's just right. It's just one of those things. So you got the bench, you got the bench rows, the bench rows. I do uh like I basically I'll hop down I'll hop on another like I can transfer in and out of my chair pretty easy. Some of us Some of us in the chairs we can't. So it's trying to have to modify to that is really hard. So it's like even doing like a a pullover like you see the guys doing like a cable pullover. Yeah, I can do that too. It's just I have to set it up a little more different. Like I have to literally back further away and just to get it like a re get a good reach because I have a ridiculously long reach for how short I look in my chair. I reach the top of the cable all the way up and I'm just like well this sucks. So, I have to bring my chair all the way back and have to figure out how to roll up my chest and angle just right just to make sure that I'm hitting. So, you do that in your chair, just your wheels are locked or something? Yeah, my wheels are locked and if I'm picking up or pulling down like a heavier weight, I'll take one of those chain belts and I'll put AI'll put a 45 or two of them and I'll drop it behind me and it'll just anchor me to the ground like an anchor. That's wild. Oh, yeah. And I'll put like was it those T- bars, you know, like little A-frame little T- bar handle? Yeah. Yeah. handlebars. So, like if I'm doing a uh upward cable row or fly crossover thing, um I'll put those in behind my wheels so I don't roll backwards because even though I have brakes, it doesn't hold the whole thing with the brakes. Yeah. Yeah. It just rolls the wheels with it. So, like I have to have like wheel chocks pretty much, right? You're putting boots like the ones the police put on your car. Pretty much. Pretty much. Yeah, man. And then what about arms? Are you curling dumbbells? Are you on machines or what are you doing? So, uh I do a lot lot of cables. I do a lot of cables for like little tricep. I do a lot of cables. Um biceps. I'll hop over to a machine or I'll uh dumbbell and I'll do even I'll get up on a bench and like do what is it I call like a strict curl, but I'll get up on a bench and I'll slide all the way up and I'll have like the top of the bench like up here on my chest and I'll let my arms hang down and I can the spider curl pretty much. Yeah. Right. Right. I could do that. That's pretty fun. That's fun. Without it trying to like yank me over the top of the bench is, you know, fun to watch. Yeah. Because I can crawl a lot. I I can't stop mentally like as you're explaining this, I'm I'm doing it in my head. I'm like, you know, mentally my eyes are closed going, "Okay, now Dusty, don't use your feet this in the setup, you know, cuz like, you know, there's a lot when you vision someone doing what you just said." Like we've all done it, but our feet are like cemented to hold balance. So your core is just working. Oh yeah. The whole time because you have to be twice as strict, right? It's twice as strict. And it's like I I can move a lot of weight, but like also if I don't want to be sloppy about it, I drop down the weight and I really can focus on where I need to control and get that muscle mind connection. like given the situation that I'm in like you get that muscle mind connection like super quick. It's I feel like it's easier for me to find than somebody else. Right. Yeah. Right. You you know what else I think on so like on a positive side, we talk about recoverability and you only have so much recovery in your body to give to everything. If you're not training legs, then that's that much more recovery that can go to your upper body. I almost, you know, you see the guys that don't train legs and they've got the jacked upper body. Like, like, you really can grow upper body faster if you're not training legs. Do you feel like you've gotten I mean, and I I know you weren't lifting hardcore before the accident, but do you feel like you've gotten like good development? And what does your split look like since legs isn't going to be a part of that? Yeah. I actually feel like uh I got some really good development. And I've changed up my split from whenever I started. And I just felt like it just like I wasn't progressing any. Like I'd work out three days a week like Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, like for years. And I was just like that's what my first coach would tell me to do. And he's like, "Hey, this is all you need to do." And I'm like, I was not getting anything from it. Like I'm not wasn't even I was at the point where I wasn't even sweating. Like it was okay. But then u but now with my coach that I have now, we have it set up to where I work out six days a week. I take one day off. Okay. I do. So I was it uh today I will hit back. Uh tomorrow, Tuesday, I will do uh chest. Wednesday I will hit arms and then I repeat. So it's just like I don't I basically was I'll do it chest and shoulders pretty much same day. I'll do back row delts this next and then I'll hit bicep tricep and then I just literally repeat the cycle over and over. You just take Sundays off. This Sunday is my one day off. Damn. Nice. So you're on like So So you got to push pull arms. Yeah. Yeah, pretty much. Push push pull arms. That's That's everybody's favorite split. Yeah. So easy. It's like push pull arms. I can do that twice a week, too. This is easy. No, it's like I know I do. I have noticed that uh I know um like my arm day I do switch it up like I'll do but I'll start say like to whenever I do arms I'll do biceps first and then whenever I come back to arms I'll start with triceps right so I just now do you have any I'm just thinking of like you know things that would get used constantly like your elbows your tricep tendons and your hands I'm thinking of like video gamers getting carpal tunnel and some of the drummers I know that have had to have surgery on their wrist You're using your freaking hands and your triceps and your pecs constantly way more way more than anything else. Do you have the same like like you know I know people that hike a lot they get foot problems and their ankles oh my ankle hurts and like do you have a lot of that that you have to manage in your in your arms? I I used to until I changed up my training split if that's oddly if that if that sounds oddly enough but it's like I used to deal with wrist issues because like since I'm constantly using my hands and pushing my wrist would kill me like I used to have to wear like wrist wraps and everything like now I don't have to I don't know what I did where I don't have to do that anymore but it's like my wrist would kill me and then it's like I was dealing with like a tenonitis like or elbow t elbow tenant or tennis elbow that's it but I would deal with that, but that's a grip issue. Yeah. So, my grip has gotten really strong, a lot stronger. So, I don't have that issue anymore. But I do notice it's like uh a break radiialis that pull and hold up muscle like hammer curls. Is excruciating painful for me. Just because I think it's the motion of me literally pushing all the time and I'm like stretch I'm squeezing stretching that muscle out all the time. Yeah. Right. Right. So what about what about I know that a lot of people listening especially our degenerate crowd I know they're wondering like what are these guys doing for peeds like how does that change what's the landscape like there what's what's the thinking my thinking of it is is less is more like I wouldn't have to necessar I don't have to necessarily run as much as an able body person cuz I got half of me to worry about Right. Okay. To grow type of thing. So it's like I've it's really extremely like low dose of everything. But it's not like trying to think. Do you think that standard protocol like when you talk to the other guys? You got the other guys are you think it's pretty kind of a wheelchair division thing. You guys are each one each one of us I know is different, right? Like I know some I know some guys run way more than I do and it's like okay why it's like you can tell like they're super watery and everything like that. Like why would you just back that down? No, you got to run this just like any other division, you know? It really is. It's like no sounds like bikini. Yeah. Yeah, it's bikini. But no, no, it's it's really one of those things where we have to uh you have to find that happy middle ground. And I think my coach, he's like, "H, we're gonna just like sprinkle gas on it is what we're doing." Like, we just like slowly upped it and then we found like the spot and then we backed it off just like a tad and it's just like I've progressed so much. Do you do you think I don't know this fair question, but I sort of think there might be two schools of thought. There'd be the guys that are like, "Well, I really got to take care of myself." And then there might be the guys that are like, "Well, kamicazi." Yeah, I'm already right. I'm already in a wheelchair. Let's just go for it. Like, so I I imagine that might be a thing. I sort of see that as a thing, you know? I feel like it is, but a lot of us like, we take our our health like down like very serious type of thing. I mean, there's some guys that run a lot of stuff to get as shredded as they possibly can. And I'm like, how are you not dead? You know, that type of thing. Like, this would kill somebody. But no, um I feel like a lot of us like since we already deal with so many health issues anyways just from the situation that we're in like we really have to take all all that into consideration just to keep us healthy and like for the next day type of thing. Yeah. What what are some of those challenges? It's like what are the things that people don't think I mean we're thinking about your training, your cardio, your diet, but those other things that people don't realize like the leaning over your sink to brush your teeth. We get Oh, yeah. I have to a different position. But what are these other challenges? Some of them that really shock people. Um I always get a lot of people just stop and watch me get in and out of my car. Like they will literally ask me if I need help after the fact that I put my chair back in my car because because they do they stand back and like this is the coolest thing ever. But it's like this. No, this is a a whole entire workout just to get in and out of the car. So, do you have your car modded up? Is that Are you driving with hand toggles and stuff? I'm driving it's so think like a four-wheeler. It's thumb thro. It's thumb throttle. All right. So the gas is for my my thumb and then like I push the floor with the handle to the brake. It's all attached to one thing. So I drive a ch I drive a Challenger. So it's like it's a really fast four-wheeler. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. You know, you know Jack, right? Yeah. Yeah. Jack, the older guy been in the chair. He's always at the Olympia. Well, he he's he's from a city I used to live in. Yeah. So, I used to see Jack at the supplement store all the time, and he had a beautiful big I don't know if it was a Dodge Ram or an F-150 or whatever, but he had it all modded up, right? He had the the electric uh staircase out the side that were the the thing that would lift him into his seat, and he had the hand driver, the hand shifters, and everything. Oh, yeah. It was like a a $100,000 truck with another like I don't know how much he spent to get all that stuff set up, but it was cool. It's like the craziest thing is like this whole the wheelchair situation, just this aspect of stuff, it gets so expensive. Like people don't realize like our chairs that you see us on stage are $9,000 $15,000. Like really? Yeah. That's more than I would have guessed. I would I would have been like, "Yeah, you know, a fancy chair, it' be a couple grand, you know?" Yeah. Oh, it's like it's all made specifically like for us type of and and I bet they're super light and strong and never break, right? Like is that the thing? Oh, I wish. Oh, okay. You're dreaming. I was like mine mine is like uh it's made out of uh oh the magnesium like titanium. It's super light. It weighs like 15 pounds if that. Okay. With the wheels on and cush on it's like 15 pounds. But um I have another chair like you ever see like the guy do like the back flip in the wheelchair on like that bigger ramp? Yeah, I I have that exact same chair. I used to train in that one because it's got shocks in the back of it because I don't have to worry about bending it because it's like it's X-framed and like it's a beefy chair. It weighs 40 lbs. So like trying to pick that up sucks, right? Like picking that up one-handed and trying to get in the car, that's a whole other level. type of thing. But no, like our chairs, I know with mine, like I really have to watch how much weight I actually put into the chair because it's weighted for 100 or with 250 lbs is what my chair is rated for and I weigh what was I this morning? 138. This morning. You weigh 138. Yeah, I was 128. I was 128 at the Arnold. You cuz you look like a like a middleweight, light heavyweight bodybuilder. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I'm that like from my hips up though. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just I I has a hard time. Yeah. It's just the number. Yeah. Cuz like for people that have never seen James in person like you look like a shredded guy that you'd see doing I mean I sort of thought you look like a 190 pound body. Yeah. I was going to say like 185 190 somewhere in there. He's good with that. Yeah. I just and like of course it makes sense but just then hearing the number like what you were 12 what 120 what eight 128 at the island. Wow. So yeah the bikini diet is really making sense now. Right. Right. So it's like I was uh 12 three at the Olympia and the low doses. That makes sense too. Yeah dude. So my mind is still struggling with these numbers because you look and you're thinking Mhm. 128 pounds like so what's an offseason weight then? Like if if you took let's say you weren't competing every six months the way you do like and you wanted to progress and put on size. What would be the comfortable line of where you're heavy enough to gain at an excess? Is that 150? Is that 160? What is it? So I want to say it's like so after the Arnold I had a you know a couple is it few weeks off for about a month or so off and I got up to 48 pounds. Okay. And I was and I was comfortable and I was still you still look great I bet. And I was still like kind of lean I was filled out like leanish. But um no, I think like between 150 160 I would be comfortable, but I feel like I I would be a little too fluffy and then would have to start prep even sooner, right? Yeah. Tire thing. Oh man. Okay. Yeah. So it's like I try to find that happy medium. It's like I'll get up. I'll try to gain like five, six pounds, 10 pounds and then suck back down. Yeah. So far just kind of like stair step it. Mhm. Yeah. Yep. And that's why I put on some size since the Arnold and I just fuller and everywhere. Yeah. And five, six pounds on you is going to be a lot, you know, cuz it's all upper body, you know, that that's that's a lot going to the places we want to see it, you know? It's like I don't ever like see myself being I'm not big. Like I think I feel like it's just a bodybuilder thing. We never think we're big enough. Yeah. None of us do. No, no, we're not big enough. I need to be bigger. But no, it's uh I went I help out with like the NPC Oklahoma. I go out like I help with all out with all the shows. Like I'm the one I'm basically the MPC of Nick Scott like rolling around at the shows type of thing, right, for the amateurs and everything trying to build the wheelchair class and scene here in Oklahoma. But we have competitors that compete and I'll hand out the awards and I'll be ne I'll see a picture of me next to them and say we have a men's physique guy that was 210 and I'm bigger than he is. Right. Right. I'm like, "No way. This dude's like 6'2" and I'm like, "I look bigger." Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Take your wins. Oh, yeah. Right. Yeah. Sorry. I We had some uh like kind of impact questions like Yeah. I I've heard other people in in your situation talk about sort of being thrust into the role of being motivational or inspirational and um and were you uncomfortable with that at first? Did you sort of see that as like yeah this is something I I should do to kind of you know help you know spread the word and all that. Is it hard or did it come natural? So with me, I was kind of in that middle ground. Like it came natural, but it was like something I did not expect to like come natural type of thing. It's a um it was very uncomfortable at first because like in my mind I'm like, I'm just going outside like the rest of you. Why am I so inspirational for getting out of the house? Right? Type of that. That was my mindset. But now it's just kind of like, hey, this is natural. Hey, if I can inspire you with inspire you with you just seeing me out doing something, I'm doing my job, right? It's like that that's what I'm here for. That's what it's what I do. And it's like we come to terms with it. And now there are some guys that I've been around that's in chairs and like they are not motivational at all. Like you hardly see them. They they're like recluses. I mean they just they they just sit back and they don't want to be seen type of thing. me. I like to be out there like, "Hey, look at me." type of thing, but um because I find it fun and I'd say it's life's too short to hide, right? H how do you feel the bodybuilding community has treated you uh in general? Like, you know, I guess over time, everything like we said, the division has gained more respect and more awareness, so that's probably improved. And what are some of the, you know, things that runins you've had with the other guys? you know, anything they've said to you about this, you know, how do you feel about this? No, it's like um I think since we're like I'm coming into everything like on the since I turned pro, everything's been kind of on the uprise or the wheelchair class. Since 22, everything just kind of like shot up because we just had the wheel the guys on the Olympia stage that was that was new. So, it's like we're getting more noticed and it's like I think most of the other competitors are seeing us not as a uh I hate saying it but like as a sideeshow, right? Right. Like, oh, come look at these guys. They're super motivational. Now, let's go pay attention to CBUB, you know, that type of thing. You know, it's like, but no, it's like we put in just as much work as an able-bodied person, but I feel like and all the other competitors, we work just as just as hard, if not harder. I hate to say it, sometimes we do work out harder because considering the training that we have to do and the way that we have to modify everything. Well, your cardio sounds worse. Yes, it's awful. I don't worry anybody. I might, if a client pisses me off, we might start adding that in. Yeah. Yeah. Right. skier for an hour. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Skier for 10 minutes would be a threat to an able body person. Trust me. No. No. It's full body full body workout. But yeah, you know, the uh but all the other competitors and stuff like the big open bodybuilder guys like and all that like they're taking notice of us like and I'm starting to notice that like they come up to us and you know they they talk to us not and they they don't come some of them come up to us and say hey you guys are super inspirational and you know keep it up type of thing. But then some of them come up to us and literally just talk to us. and have like a legitimate conversation like this. And it's that's really what it means the world to me and the other guys. It's like we're not seen as somebody different. Right. We're seen as a normal competitor. We're backstage with you. We're going to go on stage. You know, we're doing the exact same thing you are. We're just not showing off our legs. That type of thing. And I feel like they're they're taking notice of us growing and actually we we're showing up big and legit. Well, the amount of people competing seems to be like the the awareness is going through the roof because at, you know, even at the local level, I'm seeing more wheelchair competitors come in. Yeah. Um, and I think you're right because it used to be, you know, it was kind of like if somebody came out uh with an injury like, you know, what was that guy's name, Ron, that had the um the accident and was missing a leg that did the Olympia. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Uh I can't remember. He was ridiculous. Oh, I remember you talking about. But um at any rate, as soon as you see somebody who's put in the work and has the look, I would I genuinely would forget he was missing a leg. Yeah. Right. Like you just don't. And same with you guys. Like I don't say like when I say wheelchair division, it's like me saying classic it's just a division. It's not like oh them. I feel like more and more people are like it's just a division of athletes, you know? Yeah. And and that's the point that we want to get to. Like we want to be able to draw more people in to come actually watch us. That type of thing. It's just kind of like, hey, these guys are legit people. we're not they're just not like a sob story come watch them get on stage you know bless their heart type of thing and I'm just like right and as soon as like we get even further away from that we've been taking off ever since then but it's like so whenever I I went down to the South American did the uh Arnold Classic down there when they did the uh first when they had the first wheelchair pro class down there now the South American people love bodybuilders like it's a whole other world. It's crazy. But they um I learned a word down there and it's like we use it differently than what they use and it's like um when they say they have a special class. So what do you guys automatically think of special class? Like oh bless his heart type of thing. Well down there it's when they say special they mean it as in they're one step closer to God. Huh. Okay. So like if we could get everybody to think like that, they would see everything so much differently. They would see us differently as a competitor, right? They just see us like, hey, we got an advantage instead of a disadvantage, right? If that makes a great way to look at it. That's really cool. Yeah. So it's like every whenever somebody says special, like I don't I don't hear it the same anymore. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah, it's like the the people down there would literally aren't so freaking nice. Like I don't have handles on the back of my chair because I don't like to be pushed around. I like to have full control of my chair. Yeah, that's why that's why I don't have handles. Now at Olympia, I had my training partner. They like pushed me around because like Vegas is a lot and Vegas is a lot. They and my arms were done. But uh Vegas is where regular people think I can walk to that hotel. Yeah. They are wrong. Everyone goes through that at Vegas. But no, u but the guys at down in South America, they ke would come up to me and say, "Tori that competes in the wheelchair like came up to us and like where's your handles?" Like they would ask like we don't have any. Like we push like no get out of my bubble type of thing. Like I don't like people that close to me. But but Right. No, that's the general like get I don't know you get away. And but they took offense to it that we wouldn't let them help us. Huh. Right. Like they they know they are supposed to help us type of thing. Like they people like not even working the show with like in the crowd. We help. No, I'm I'm good. They know. It's like they they took offense that we wouldn't like allow them to help us out. Like that people down there is just it's a huge difference down there. Wow. But like that show was huge. Like the crowd that at this Arnold was just as big as the one down there and like it was massive. Yeah. I got some uh rapid fire stuff for you here. Okay. Okay. Scott put these together. I think it was Scott. Was it Scott? Yeah. Who's your biggest inspiration in bodybuilding? Uh crap. Biggest inspiration. It's gonna have to be Nick Scott. Okay. Okay. He's starting it out for me. Okay. Okay. Cheap meal of choice. Oh, man. That is so hard. There's so many choices. Let's see. I would have to Oh, shoot. Cheat meal. Choice. Waffles. Waffles. Waffles like a lot. Or pancakes. The two. Okay. Okay. And we kind of touched on this one. Cardio. Love it or hate it. Um, you have to love it to hate. It's He loves to hate it. I love to I love to hate it. Yeah. Um, I I don't mind it. Let's I'll put it that way. Like I know I have to do it, so it's just I just do it. Like I don't hate it that much. It's just time consuming and a long push. Favorite body part to train? H calves. You can laugh at that. It's funny. Is it bad? I was thinking legs the whole time. I was like, "Not a boy." And he went there. I have a whole day of forearms and calves. That's it. But no, uh I do uh my favorite part to train, I want to say, is shoulders. I love shoulders. I love I love a shoulder pump. It shows. Okay. One right now. The J the James Burger signature pushpull arm split will be available to download. Yes. Okay. It is fun. If you if you could train with one person, living or not, who would it be? Oh, train with one person. You can even time travel to do it if you have to. I would want to train with uh Dorian Yates back in his prime. Who would? That'd be awesome. Like I feel like because that's whenever I first started bodybuilding, that's the style of training I was doing. Right. Right. Okay. And I would love to train with him at least once, especially in his prime. Right. Like, ah, it's fun. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um, what what message do you want to leave anyone facing setbacks? We we get a lot of messages from people that say, I don't know, we Dusty and Scott and I have talked about You know, we get messages from people that are having bad times, coming out of tough stuff, dealing with, you know, addiction and tragedy and all that stuff. And, you know, they it always blows us away when they say they listen to the show to, you know, I don't know, Dusty, what are they doing listening to us? Get getting They're They're realizing it could be worse. It could be worse. Yeah. Always be worse. I could You know what I mean? Um, so you know, and and having gone through like the challenges and stuff, what what do you tell people? You know, what what's kind of your your main message? My main thing that I tell people is that don't be a half empty or a half full type of person. Be someone that is happy to have a glass. If you can grasp onto that idea, life is a lot better. Be happy to have something that you can fill others full. That's our whole mission in life is to fill others, to support others, right? Make other make the world a better place is what we're all trying to do. So, leave no excuses. You have a glass. Use it. I like that. Awesome. That's great. Thank you. Where can people follow you? What's your Instagram? We'll make sure Scott gets it up on the screen here. Uh my Instagram is IFBB uh Pro_James_B and that's the same on my Tik Tok and Jamesburgger on my Facebook. Okay, I'll be sure to put that in the description, guys. All right. Yeah. Thanks, man. When's the next time we're going to see you? I guess we'll we're going to see you. Are you going to be at the O? Are you going to be at the O? Well, I just seen where was it? Uh the Battle of Productions Pug where Mutants a uh platinum sponsor, whatever that is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if one of you guys are going to be there. I don't know if Luke or is going to be there. Oh yeah, we'll be there. So So at the Texas Pro. Okay. Yeah. Well, that that's who they just announced it. So they announced that this morning, I guess, but um supposed to be some titled sponsor and Yeah, I'll definitely be there representing that. So, okay. Awesome. Win for that. And it's the first year they're having the wheelchair class. Fantastic. That's a great show, too. Like, that's a great It's like they like say it's like it's Texas. It's Texas's Olympia. Yep. Yeah. Because there's so many freaking classes. It's insane. It's a crazy show. It's a huge venue. They have a massive backstage area. It's really great. So, I'm excited about it. I know Sean, he'll be there, so it'll be It'll be fun. I got I like I'd like to train with Sean though, too. Go back to that other question. I'd like Yeah. He's only like a four hour drive for me since like I'm just waiting for him to invite me down. And and and and both of you guys have something in common is that you're very unique to train with. Yes. Right. I mean, with Sean, you have to lower the seat on everything, right? Or or raise the seat on everything, I guess. It's like it'd be like an up and down that like that would be fun to like film and watch. Yeah, it would be. It would be like Sean, we're the same height, but we still have to move the seat, you know? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Awesome, man. Well, thanks, James. I mean, we're really happy to have have you on. We wanted to appreciate an hour of your time here. I love Thank you very much. Love to be back on. So, any anytime. Yeah. Yeah. And we fully encourage anyone who's at the at the Arnold or the Olympia Expo and and you're you're watching the classes roll by stick around for the wheelchair division because it it's it's I mean I remember when there used to be three or four guys. Mhm. Right. The first couple years I handed out awards and now there's like two rows of you and all these call outs happening. Olympia there's 13 of us. Yeah. It was great. It was great. And not to mention too, all now that everybody who listens to the show knows James with, you know, we meet everybody at the booth and everything, now they get to come up and meet James. Now they know you as well. So be sure to say hi to him there. Oh yeah, for sure. I love meeting everybody. Like I love working in the booth. Like that is fun for me. Yeah, it's a good time. We like handing out the awards. We also get to see Steve Weinberger every time we hand out the awards because he's always gives out the award, too. So it's good to see Steve. I don't get to see him like it's a busy weekend, right? So, oh yeah. Okay. Okay. Thanks, James. We appreciate having you on. James Burger, IFBB Pro, Wheelchair Division. Fantastic to have you on, man. Remember, um, uh, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. That's right. And remember, immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ISO search, get your allin, and everyone should get on the gear. Code Dusty, code big Ron, and code I what was your code? Uh JB. There you go. All right. You can use that one, too. Okay. Thanks, man. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.