I think it's really important to consistently romanticize your life. I think it's important to romanticize your life, your relationship, the business that you've created because it doesn't matter what business you guys are thinking of creating or that you are in right now. It all turns into a job if you don't choose to romanticize it and remember that it's [\h__\h] awesome that you started it. Sometimes we just look at it as this week was hard. It's a headache. Oh my god, I'm so challenged right now. So, connection questions like this really help you romanticize your life. >> And we're back >> with another episode of He Said, She Said. >> And before we dive into the three questions that we used on date night, which were really awesome last night, this is your like last warning. Oh my god, who's going to get it? One seat left notice that if you want to come to our house in mid-occtober, just a couple weeks away. and do deep deep deep strategy on your business with Lori and I and nine other businesses sitting around our table looking at 180°ree ocean views having good meals together making new relationships with like high performers. >> This is your last chance. Literally one seat became available and so if you want it you definitely have to go over to chrisarter.me/we. Lori, what else do they get besides the strategy? Okay, one of the coolest features which if I was on my come up and had this from one of my mentors, I literally would have lost my mind. So, you get to be on our podcast, which they are. So, you know, we have such established podcasts. I have a top 25 entrepreneurial Apple podcast. Chris has a massive podcast and you get to be on them on a shared segment, but you get 20 minutes of that segment to have us ask you questions in your zone of genius and share with our audience about how you're building, what you're building, what's working, what's not working. And we create these questions with you beforehand. You actually submit questions. So, it's not like you're going to be blindsided with questions. This is actually so curated to spotlight you in such an incredible way that you really are an expert in your field. So, it's one of the most exciting features. And I'm telling you, the price alone pays for being on these podcasts. >> And because we've already done this, we have empirical proof that it gets you business and it gets you new opportunities. Like, oh my god, I would have given anything to be on two shows of this size when I was kind of on my come up a little bit. So if you are a solarpreneur, if you have a store, it doesn't matter what kind of business you have because all types of business came to the last one. All types of business are coming to this one. Hit pause right now and go to chrisarter.me/we. That's chrisarter.me.me/we. It's like ready, set, go. Cuz whichever of you does that right now first actually gets the very last spot and then they're all sold out. And by the way, we're not doing this anymore this year. Maybe we'll do one next year, but there's no more of these this year. >> Mhm. >> All right. So, >> and we only have so many spots around our dining room table. >> Yeah. Yeah. And they're like, "How come there only 10 businesses?" It's because we sit around a dining room table. We have 10 chairs. Okay. Um last night Lori and I do our typical Friday night date night. >> And we don't do the same Friday night all the time, but we're usually tired on a Friday. And we usually want to have like that local uh like comfy food feeling. And so there's one of two places we'll go on a Friday. It's either a place called Bandera in, you know, Newport Beach there, here, or it's a place called, actually, I don't want to tell you this name of the sushi place because I don't want anyone to go. It's a tiny hole in the wall neighborhood joint. I'm not going to tell you where it is. It's awesome, but it's like your perfect neighborhood sushi joint where you walk in, they yell, "Hey," and they know you, and the waiters and waitresses know you, and it's the best sushi on the planet. And so, anyways, um, yeah, I'm going to gatekeep that one. So, we go there last night and Lori and I have always been very good at asking each other questions >> and we've been very good at like, hey, let's reflect on your week. And you already know that we have the power nine, which is three things you're grateful for, three things you're excited about, three things that uh you're trying to manifest, right? Right. We do that in the mornings. But last night in particular, we asked each other three questions. They just kind of happened organically and it led to the best conversations. So, we're going to share those three questions with you right now because whether it's a date night, whether it is you and some business partners, whether it's you and some people you're trying to get to know, this is the best weekly recap template ever. >> I love asking different questions because at the end of the day, there were so many things that happened in Chris's week that I don't know about. >> Like, even though we go on walks and we ask questions and things like that, we're tired sometimes on our walks. Sometimes we don't talk a lot. And I think it's really important to consistently romanticize your life. I think it's important to romanticize your life, your relationship, the job you have, the business that you've created because it doesn't matter what business you guys are thinking of creating or that you are in right now. It all turns into a job if you don't choose to romanticize it. and remember that it's [\h__\h] awesome that you started it and that you still have it and that you're growing it and that you've put so much effort towards it. And sometimes we just look at it as this week was hard. It's a headache. Oh my god, I'm so challenged right now. So I think it's important to romanticize your life and I you do that through questions. You do that through connecting with other people. you know, obviously through changing your attitude and your perspective and all of those things, but I really think connection questions like this really help you romanticize your life. >> So, I think you recognize the first one, but the second two are pretty awesome. The first one was this. I said, "Hey, what are three wins from the week?" You know, we always ask, "What are three wins at the end of each day?" >> But when you say, "Hey, what are three wins from the week?" It forces you to go back and remember some of the awesome things that happened that week that you otherwise don't take inventory of. And I'm such a huge believer. Matter of fact, if you're in any of our masterminds, we start every single call out. We're like, "All right, share your wins. We're going to we're not going to answer any questions. We're not going to have the guests come on. We're not going to do anything until we hear five or 10 wins from you as individuals." And it's weird because people like they have a hard time thinking of them at first. And then when they think of they're like, "Oh yeah, I'm proud of this. Oh yeah, I'm proud of that." Right? So we always started with or last night we started with, "Hey, what were three wins this week?" Like what were accomplishments? And it just it allowed us to reflect and be like, "Oh, that's right. this happened. Oh, that's right. That happened. Oh, that's right. This thing finally came true. >> Like, I'm doing really big things in my business right now. And because it's just kind of like big thing after big thing, if I'm being completely honest, it can start to feel like stressful projects. And I would have dreamed of do I just did a massive photo shoot for our rebrand and new flavor launches. And I'm like, "Oh my god, I want to really sit in that and think of the day and what I, you know, what that felt like and share with Chris about how that felt and like, you know, what it was like and who was there and all of the things." And these are things that I just would have kind of like, "Oh my god, I'm tired. It's Friday. I'm exhausted." Like, when you're constantly busy, it's easy just to get caught up in the momentum of things. >> More importantly, I wouldn't have known how awesome the photo shoot is, guys. even though we live under the same roof, we don't see what each other's doing all week because we're so busy with our company. So, I got to sit there and get like a playbyplay like, "Oh my god, here's the first bits we shot." And it was so cool. And look at the some of And you pulled out your phone. You're like, "Here, look at how some of the photos turned out." And you're like, "Oh, here's the next place we shot." Oh, and we're in this celebrities home and I didn't realize I was her home until I was in the home and I remembered the pictures and you're like, "Look at this. Look at" and all of a sudden it was exciting. I was like felt like I was there with Lori and the models and the photographers and everything >> literally in the photo shoot. >> Realize what he's saying and it just sounds so funny. >> Um anyhow it was so freaking cool because that was a big expensive awesome shoot and we wouldn't have even talked about it as if it never happened if that wasn't one of her answers to hey what were one of your wins this week? So that was the first question. >> Yep. Second question that we pulled out was what was a moment that you were really proud of yourself this week? And this is different than a win. This is like when did you show up in a way that you were so proud? When did you overcome something? When did >> like when did you pull out a win when it was headed for a loss? When did you keep your [\h__\h] together when you were about to lose it? And so I love this question because it really makes the other person think, "Oh, when was I proud of how I showed up?" >> And so, you know, Lori asked me, I asked her, and for me, it was a leadership moment. And I won't get into the details, but I was like, "Oh, when this thing happened, instead of me flying off the handle or being negative or doing a one of my do this or else type things, I showed up in a really cool way. Mhm. >> I said, "Hey, you know what? I believe in you individuals. I believe you're going to figure this out. I believe this is going to turn out really, really freaking awesome. Here's a couple of ideas that I have and here's a few reasons I believe that you are the people for the job." >> Mhm. >> And then it turned out really, really good. and the response we got different results because right so I was my answer to Lori is like I was really proud of the way I showed up as a leader in this one particular moment this week and then Lori had a cool one to share as well >> impact moment as well I also don't want to share details because it's people in our life but it was like a a really awesome moment of wow I'm at this point in life where I really get to make some really cool impact and if I don't sit and notice it it's like these things would just go by And I want to really focus on the fact that I get to make impact on people and that every day, no matter where we show up, somebody's watching. Somebody's watching. It was just kind of a moment of somebody saying something back to me of like learning from how I show up. And that is just a moment of, wow, this is so cool that I get to do this. And it made me want to be an even better person now to go, what's the type of just like legacy and impact that I want to leave? And I just want I want to truly leave people better. I want to teach them how to make money and I want to leave them better. >> Yep. Yep. And then the third question, this was kind of fun. >> Okay. I have to tell you about one of my top dream trips on my bucket list. That is Japan. And I swear to you, so many of my friends who have gone have told me it is their favorite place they've ever visited. And I've been dreaming about this trip for a while because of the food, the fashion, the culture, the cherry blossoms. I literally want the whole experience. I already have a vision of Chris and I walking through Kyoto in the spring, sipping matcha, going to little cafes, doing a full wellness day at an onsen, which is a natural hotring, and then heading to Tokyo for the energy and the next level design inspo. So, I know when I finally go, I'm going to come back with so many ideas for life and business because travel always does that for me, getting outside of my life and my bubble. So, if you're like me and you have a handful of dream trips on your list, and you love a great way to make some extra money while you travel, that is why I love Airbnb. Most of us have stayed in a ton of Airbnbs, but have you ever thought about hosting your own home? Airbnb hosts are just like us. They're real people with homes that sit empty while they're away. So, if you've got a trip on your vision board, like for me, Japan, hosting your home on Airbnb while you're gone could be the perfect way to add some cash back into your travel fund. Your home might be worth more than you think. Find out how much at Airbnb.com/host. >> It was, "What was something that totally surprised you this week?" And it's a great question because, you know, a lot of times we'll talk about wins or a lot of times we talk about something you're proud of, but to say, "Hey, what was a time this week that you were just straight up surprised? what surprised you this week? And that prompted two really good conversations, >> you know, with what what surprised you this week. I had to dig really deep for that one. And I have to tell you, I actually had a realization when he asked me that question that I was like, "Oh gosh, I might need to kind of like do some some more different things. I do a lot of, you know, newer different things in my life, but I mean, I might have to do some more either challenging things or some things even further outside of my comfort zone so that I can be more surprised. >> Yeah. >> By experiences or surprised at how I show up or surprised at how I handle things because I realized I'm actually in a place where I do a lot. I'm I'm getting very comfortable with the uncomfortable. And so I had a moment of ah crap, I have to go get uncomfortable in some places again somewhere. Yeah, >> which sucks but is also great. >> Listen, that's the routine of life. If you're if you're not constantly doing something that makes you uncomfortable, then you're falling behind and you don't realize it. It's the weirdest joke of life of all. Like when you're sitting there like, "Hey, everything feels good. I'm not doing anything that's uncomfortable." You're actually slipping behind a little bit and you just don't realize it yet. But when you're out there like, "Okay, what's the next uncomfortable step? What's the next uncomfortable conversation? What's the next uncomfortable I don't know, hire? What's the next most uncomfortable investment? What's the next?" Then you're actually getting ahead. Mh. >> And I'm a big believer in life, you're never staying the same ever. You there's no such thing as staying the same. Even though it might feel like it just cuz you're zoomed in at the moment. You're either falling behind and you don't know it or maybe you do >> or you're getting ahead, but there is no staying the same. Anyhow, that's a tangent. The three questions, try them out with your business partners, try them out with your friends, try them out with a significant other. It's >> them. Trying them. Yeah, it's an awesome weekly recap. What are three wins from the week? What was a time that you were surprised this week? And what was a moment that you were really proud of yourself this week? >> And if you guys have some cool ones, share them with us. We love when you DM us questions. >> Yeah, we love them. >> Uh that and don't forget to rush over chrisarter.me/weend. I can't wait to see who gets the last spot to come to our home, be on our podcast, strategize for two days, last chance this year. >> And you guys send us voice note questions. Like if you have questions, this is so crazy. We found out that a lot of people who were like, "Man, I wanted to come to our last one, but I was so intimidated." I'm like, "Oh my gosh, send us voice notes. We're like the least intimidating people in person." And we've gotten that feedback and we're so welcoming. We want people to come into the house like immediately. We're going to make you feel welcome. We're going to make you feel excited and comforted around the podcast. Literally everything. like send us voice notes so that we can answer any questions around maybe an obstacle that you have in your brain about oh I want to do that but maybe you're telling yourself a story in your head so let's answer it we'll tell you if you're a fit or not like we don't want you here if you're not a fit >> that may be uncomfortable for us >> yeah if we can't help you or your business is not a fit like we actually don't want you here yet you know that's for the future but we'll we'll for sure tell you so shoot us some voice notes >> DM us okay chrisarterme/we Again, thanks for listening. We love and appreciate you.