These are my three rich girl rules that I will never stop doing and that have made me a ton of money and that I know will absolutely help you guys become a magnet for all of the things that you want, but also just the person who has the identity of a winner and that is what's going to change the game for you. Hey everyone, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. It's time for another quickie because there's always time to fit in inspiration and nice work you for getting this in. This podcast is my three rich girl rules that I refuse to break. So, there is a reason some women create extraordinary success while others are going to keep spinning in circles. You know who I'm talking about. And you want to save them, but you literally can't. You guys, it's not look, it's standards that you hold for yourself. And today, I am sharing three rich girl rules, habits, you could say that I refuse to break. These are habits that have built my business, my network, and my peace. And I want to say that when I say rich girl, I don't just mean money. I mean rich in peace, energy, time, and purpose. But I also mean money, honey, because it makes the world go round. And let me just tell you that money has given me the freedom and the ability to help more people and my family than I can possibly tell you. So honey, you want that money and I want you to want it. So I want to share some of these habits because I think that they are so important for all of you. these standards to have for yourself and to understand. The first rich girl standard is to not do it all. And I know that this might feel a little counterintuitive because in the beginning I did have to do it all, but you can't do it all forever. You have to start finding people who are going to be able to help you because you are literally going to run out of your most important asset and that is your energy. So balance is an absolute myth. You have to trade it for really intentional imbalance because the 80% rule is what you're going to want to strive for. You need to give your energy to the most important areas and let the rest be good enough. I cannot tell you how many people have asked me, "How do you do it all?" And I'm like, "Well, I don't do it all." And number two, there are plenty of things that I'm doing that I'm just literally letting them be the bare minimum. Aka literally right now, just being completely honest, my podcast is not getting a lot of attention. It is not in growth mode yet, but it will be because there are other things in my life that are in growth mode like Glossy Literally right now with my company Glossy. If you don't know what it is, it is a skin and gut daily beauty supplement that you drink. It's like a picture a um hydration stick that you pour into water except it has all of these incredible things for your skin and your gut. You definitely want to be on it. Let me tell you, it's life-changing. If you want, you know, amazing skin and to be regular every day and to feel incredible, let me just say. But with that said, that is getting all of my time and my energy right now. So, until I can stabilize that more and get that to really really be in rocket ship mode, which we're getting close, then I'm going to have to put most all of my energy there, which means the podcast is not going to get all of the energy. So, I have to intentionally imbalance my life right now and be okay with that fact. Whereas some people would be like, "Oh my god, this isn't doing well or these numbers went down." And I'm okay with it because I understand that you actually have to sometimes take your foot off the gas in a lot of areas in your life in order to be able to floor it in others in order to be super successful in others. And success loves speed and it loves focus even more. So doing it all is going to dilute your power. But doing a few things really well is going to expand it. So you guys, I want you to look at your life and I want to challenge you to pick two to three categories to give your 80% to and let the other things literally let them even fall behind or let the numbers go down because that's just how it's going to have to be until you can figure out either another team to do it or if it was that important in the first place, if the other two to three things really took off. This is where you really start to get your wheels turning and go, "Okay, I'm giving my focus to these things and they're really starting to grow. Were these other things actually important in the first place?" So, for example, if Glossy just took off beyond my wildest, would I still keep the podcast? Now, I actually for sure would because it served so many other things for me, but there are things in my life that I'm like, would I keep that other thing? Would I keep this thing? because if I really focus there, that's going to take the place of a lot of things and it'll expand even more. So, it'll make all of these other things seem unimportant. All right, so the next one is number two rich girl rule that I will never break. Number two, I build my network before I need it. I have always done this because your network is your insurance policy and it is your path. It is your map. They will tell you where to go. they will bring the right people to you. If you have it and you've built it and you know how to use it. So when I'm thinking of um raising money for Glossy when I wanted to start this company and it's you know product companies tend to be really cash intensive because once they start to grow especially you have to place a large product orders. When I say large product orders these could literally be anywhere from 200 grand to a million dollars or more. And that is a really cash intensive place that if you want to grow it in a fast way and you want to be hiring a lot of people, you're going to want investors on. This is a whole other rule you guys that we'll talk about another day. But not only using your money into your company, you want to make sure that you're also putting your own personal money into other places that it's also going to grow and work for you while you grow your company. So with that said, this became really valuable to me when I had already spent years and years building my network through the podcast and through networking events and through going to masterminds and through going to big entrepreneurial events and putting myself out there that I found it not super challenging to raise money. Now, was it easy? Absolutely not. But did I feel like I had people to reach out to? Yes. I felt like I had people to ask. And even once I hit my first million and felt like I had run out of those people, I learned really quickly that those people know people. So I had to go back and ask again, which is that challenging? Absolutely. And I had to meet brand new people and have this conversation immediately before I even knew who they were. That is very challenging. But you can't say that I didn't have the network. And so by the time you need the network, it's too late. I need you to know, okay, first of all, it's never too late. But we don't want it to be too late. So, we want you to start building it now. And you need to do that by being the woman who adds value first. You need to send that DM first. You need to see how you can help someone. You need to share a resource without getting anything in return. You need to cheer people on publicly. The power is literally not just in your mentors, but it's also in your peers. Like, you want to build your network with other peers. You guys, so many times I watch people who are at like, let's just say when I was in the beginning of launching things or before I had my book or, you know, before I did a lot, the place where I went wrong is I really spent a lot of time trying to make my mentors my friends. And it wasn't my mentors who were going to be really the people who were going to be cheering me on and introducing me to a ton of people. Now, this does happen. Absolutely. They did open a lot of doors for me, but at the same time, I would say it was a lot of my peers who were in those mentors rooms with me who really ended up being people who opened doors for me later. And we would just trade favors back and forth, back and forth all of the time with what can I do for you? How could you come on my show? I'll go on your show. What course do you have that you're launching right now? How can I help with your launch? Could I email for you? Like what does that look like? Can I share on social? You have a big event coming up. Let me share on social. You'll see that I do that for a lot of my friends. Like try to fill their events, try to share their stuff long before they even ask me, you guys. So, one of the most important things, I don't want you to forget this sentence. I need this plastered on your mirror. This is the whole map. This is the whole key. This is the whole takeaway that I need you to get from this podcast. Are you ready? Do you have a pen? If you don't have a pen, I'm going to let it go this time. You need to learn how to become a person of value in valuable rooms. Now, this is so important because the key word here is valuable rooms. So, you need to find your way into valuable rooms, whether that is a mastermind or an event or somebody that you know who is far ahead of you that you need to start seeing how you can get in their atmosphere. start seeing how you can add value, whatever that looks like. Then once you get in the value valuable rooms, this is where everybody goes wrong. They walk in and they say, "Here I am, and here's what I need." If you want your life to [\h__\h] change, get yourself into the valuable rooms and say, "There you are, and how can I help you?" Watch how quickly your life is going to change. Now, some of you are like, "So, I just spend my time doing [\h__\h] for other people?" Yes, you do. Because you're going to find that number one, I would say one out of four people are going to reciprocate. And they're going to reciprocate really well. And then you're just going to start getting this reputation where people are like, "Oh my god, I love her. Like, I love her. I'll do anything for her." So, when your name drops in a valuable circle, all of a sudden it's she's amazing. Oh my god, this is what she did for me. This is how she went out of her way. This person is amazing. And then someone remembers that and says, "Yeah, you know what? Let's get her on the podcast. You know what? Let's help her with her book. Let's like get her on a stage." This is how it works, you guys. And it's years and years and years of this. So when people are like, "Okay, I got to work this system fast." It's just not going to happen fast. This is the identity and the person that you need to become. So when I say be a person of valuable in a valuable room, make that your identity that you get in valuable rooms and that you add value in them. And that's who you are and that's what you do and that's what you're known for. So I encourage you to make a bold connection this week. Like show up, reach out, collaborate without expectation. Like let them know what you want to do for them or just do it. Don't even ask. Honestly, don't even ask. Just tag them. And if they don't acknowledge you, great. Keep doing it. That's the whole point. Just keep showing up without acknowledgement. This is the person that I want you to start becoming. And doors are going to start flying open for you after you become this person. Not right away. Once you become this person, you're like, "This is just who I am. Like, I don't have an expectation around it." Are you ready to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM. Reach your audience through email and SMS and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24/7. And of course, Prevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi- channelannel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com/happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. So, after living in about five different places in the past 5 years and having to do all of the window treatments myself and have to source that, I can tell you that I've had a plethora of bad experiences. And I decided to try Blinds.com. So, Blinds.com calls out the window treatment industry for what it was. Outdated, overpriced, and built to serve salespeople, not customers. So, they flipped it. While others may overpromise or overcharge, Blinds.com delivers custom window treatments for your space your way at your convenience. You guys, I've had times where I have been waiting and waiting and waiting for my appointment and no one shows up that day. So, unlike some other competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees and zero pressure. Whether you want to DIY it, let the pros handle it, or maybe something in between, blinds.com gives you options so you're in control. And I will tell you that I went with the help. Need help picking the right look? Blinds.com. Design experts are available on your schedule with free consultations. And if you want the full white glove treatment, they even schedule licensed vetted pros to measure your windows at no cost. And they'll install everything for one low price. And this is exactly what I did. It's all backed by Blinds.com's 100% satisfaction guarantee. So you know you're covered literally and figuratively. Because at blinds.com, the only thing they treat better than windows is you. Right now, Blinds.com is giving our listeners an exclusive $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout. Limited time offer. Rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. And so, the rich girl rule number three is to play the long game. So, your sustained consistent momentum is going to beat a fast win any day. I want you to really think about this podcast, you guys, is I think is nine years old now. Nine years. And I'm finally getting paid really, really well for this podcast. But it took me nine years. And it took me I don't think I started monetizing it until year five. So five years of showing up on this microphone three times a week, almost four. I started four I think on year five or six. four times a week, showing up on this podcast microphone three times a week consistently. Not missing one of those for five years for free. Like, no, not even for free. Are you ready for this [\h__\h] For paying for the team. So, a few thousand a month to have a podcast that doesn't pay me jack [\h__\h] in order to now get paid a lot for this podcast. Capiche, you dig? Are you willing to do that? play the long game, you will be rewarded for it. So, yes, you can manifest big wins quickly. I believe that. I don't ever want to get into your head that things can't happen quickly and easily because I [\h__\h] believe that to my core. But the people who get lucky are the ones who stay in the game the longest because quick wins will really burn you out if that's what you're going for. You need to build systems that keep you in the game. You need to build a team around you that keeps you going, keeps your podcast going, keeps your programs going, keeps whatever you have going, keep your workouts going, like accountability partners, whatever you need to keep yourself in the game. You guys, companies and people fail when they run out of staying power. Not talent, not money. Like literally, they lose the game when they run out of staying power and getting scrappy and trying to figure out how in the hell you're going to stay in the game. So success is never a little single moment thing. It's never like, "Oh my god, this person made our business. Oh my god, this marketing idea just [\h__\h] crushed it for us." It's thousands of those. It's thousands of those that you're going to put together. And this is why I always talk about falling in love with your life, falling in love with a game, because it's never going to stop. And the only way to win is to keep on going. So, these are my three rich girl rules of my life that I will never stop doing and that have made me a ton of money and that I know will absolutely help you guys become a magnet for all of the things that you want, but also just the person who has the identity of a winner and that is what's going to change the game for you. So, you guys, I'm sending you so much love. I have two new flavors out with Glossy and I can't wait to tell you what they are. I'll probably tell you in about a week, but if you want to get on the wait list for these new flavors, we did not do a massive drop of them because we don't know if these are going to be the flavors we're going to stick with forever. We want your feedback. So, if you want to be the first people to get these flavors, I want to make sure that you do. Two new incredible flavors, guys. They're mind-blowing. We also did a little rebrand and rename, and it is so sexy. Like I'm so obsessed. It's so chic. You're going to love it. And the formula changed just a tiny bit because we wanted to make it even better to get you even better results. So you guys can go down to the show notes. You can click where it says glow list and you can get on the wait list for the new flavors so that you don't miss out. We launched two days earlier to that weight list than everyone else. And I am actually praying that we totally sell out of some of the flavors. So definitely get on there and until next time you guys. I just can't wait for you to try these new flavors. Like my mouth is actually watering thinking about it. They are literally outrageous. So I'm sending you so much love. Please get on that weight list. Please, please, please. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.