This episode of Earn Your Happy is sponsored in part by Shopify, Constant Contact, Cozy Earth, Airbnb, and Open Phone. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Constant Contacts award-winning marketing platform is here to make marketing way easier and way more effective. Try Constant Contact free for 30 days at constant contact.com. Where would you live for a year if you hosted your home on Airbnb and went on an adventure? Find a co-host at Airbnb.com/host. Sleep cooler, lounge lighter, stay cozy. Go to cozyearth.com and use code earn for 40% off. Open phone. No missed calls, no missed customers. Open is offering my listeners 20% off of your first 6 months at openphone.com/earn. You guys, I built my wings on the way down. And the reason that things started working out is because I was shooting my shot a hundred different ways until one landed. It wasn't because I was amazing at making baskets. It was because I was amazing at never stopping throwing the baskets, right? Hey everyone, welcome back to the podcast. It's time for another quickie because there's always time to fit in inspiration and I want to talk to you about what it's taken every single time that I have made a quantum leap. It's never been because of the times that I've really leaned into ease and it's never been in a soft girl era. Now, I will say that those things all have their place and I don't believe that you can have quantum leaps without those moments because those can provide a lot of value. They can provide a lot of rest and they can provide a lot of answers, but I haven't gotten to really reap the fruits of all of the labor of all of that without the quantum leap rocket ship season. I'm talking about this a lot lately, but I have to tell you in those seasons a lot comes up. A lot of resistance is going to come up. But I want to share the three things that I really do during my quantum leap seasons. But before I do that, I have to tell you, I had this major to-do list today on all of the content that I needed to film. And I have to tell you that the biggest thing that has resistance around it for me right now, it's not even the fundraising that I'm doing. It is not the asking people to get involved with Gloy and asking for money. That doesn't even feel crazy to me right now. That feels actually really good and exciting because I'm so excited about this company. But you think it would be something big like that, like, oh, maybe it's all of the big things that you're doing, the hosting events or fundraising for Glossy. No, no, that is not where all of my resistance is. All of my resistance is around social media and content. And for some reason, it feels like one of the most challenging things for me. And I'm telling you, I'm going to get through it. You're going to continue to watch me thrive. I'm going to continue to grow. I'm going to blow my own damn mind. I'm going to just You're going to be like, "Who are you? This is insane. You're crushing it with your content." And I get that maybe if you're doing no content, maybe you feel like I am. But I also just feel like I'm not. So, that's like a major thing that I'm working on right now. But, I have to tell you, I went to go sit down to record content, which I still did, but I was putting Glossy into a glass and like drinking it, and I didn't stir it up good enough because it was on film, you know? I'm like doing this for a real. And I got one of those like little powdery balls and I sucked it up through a straw and literally turned into the coughing fit of my life. Like not the ones that pass in like 2 to 3 minutes, but the ones that you think you may have to seek medical attention for because you're having the worst coughing fit of your life and feel like you're never going to stop coughing. It went on for like 20 minutes and every time I went to go sit down again, I couldn't even speak. I was like coughing out the words and I just had this like chuckle to the universe of okay there must be something so good on the other side of me figuring out this content that you are legitimately trying to stop me at every turn. So that's you know that's just one of those things that comes up when you go try to do the thing that you need to do the most but the most resistance is around it. And I was like seriously seriously had to choke on this little powder ball right now and set myself back. Okay. So, what I want to share with you is the three things I've done during my quantum leaps that have really changed the trajectory of my life. And that is to go allin. It doesn't mean that you have to go all in forever, but go allin for a while. Like I said, I love a soft girl moment, but I've never shattered a ceiling by doing a lot of the same thing, hoping something that would change. You guys, I truly had to get so focused and obsessed. I'm going to use the word obsessed here. Not everybody loves it, but I also think that people who have broken through massive ceilings are obsessed with the word obsessed. So, I'm inviting you to allow you to become obsessed because that means it's taken over your brain and it's taken over your life and I should see that it takes over your calendar. I should have one or two or three of your friends ask you if you are okay because they're worried about how obsessed you are with building this thing. Now, they're not necessarily the friends who are going to help propel you into the next season, but I do want people in your life to start getting concerned over your obsession. That is what I'm talking about. That is when you know that everything that you're doing and everything that you're talking about is creating a vortex around what is about to propel you because it is what you're calling in. It's what you're saying. It's what you're seeing. It's what you're talking about. It's who you're attracting. It's the network you're attracting. No one can deny you. No one can deny this is what you're talking about. You're [\h__\h] obsessed. And that is when you know things are going to start shifting. That's when the tides start turning. is when people start acknowledging this about you. So, go allin for a while. You guys, I built my wings on the way down. And the reason that things started working out is because I was shooting my shot a hundred different ways until one landed. It wasn't because I was amazing at making baskets. It was because I was amazing at never stopping throwing the baskets. Right? So, you have to be extreme for a season. And that is literally going to change the tides and rewire your reality because you are shifting the way that you are showing up. You're telling people you're telling people who you are, what you are, and what that goal is. Number two, as always, get in the rooms. I will say this till the day I die. I will probably write another book on this. Maybe I'll write two books. I don't know. But it is all about the network. I do not have the education of someone who should be where I'm at with the bank account that I have. I did not graduate high school. I was not raised in a network with an educated family or an educated network that they had. I was not plugged in, you guys. I decided to plug myself in and it was the most uncomfortable thing that I've ever done. I'm still choosing to not only put myself in the rooms with women who are way ahead of me, but I personally am starting to throw dinners where I am paying for the dinners to invite people to come and put myself at the seat at the table. So, I'm not just building the table. I'm legitimately building it and paying for it and inviting people to come to it. If this feels like a stretch for you guys, it [\h__\h] should because it is. And this is what it's going to take for you to get to the next level is you're going to have to potentially pay for that mentorship, pay for that dinner, pay for that event, pay for that thing to invite people to. And even though I'm doing these dinners and paying and they're just very unique, special, awesome, I'm still getting told no. I'm still getting totally ghosted in the DMs. I'm still having people saying like, "No, thank you." So you guys, it doesn't matter who you are. When you are reaching for the next level, you're going to get rejected and that is okay and that's where you should be. You should simultaneously be stretching and also be getting rejected or you did not stretch far enough. So, a lot of you may have seen that my husband Chris and I run masterminds. And with that, we get to help scale entrepreneurs businesses, but we also get to see the inside of their businesses and what they struggle with the most. From software to onboarding employees and creating a company culture, that's typically one of the biggest things. And Bamboo HR is a powerful yet flexible all-in-one HR solution for growing your business. Stop spending countless hours on payroll, time tracking, benefits, performance management. With Bamboo HR, those hours are shaved down to minutes so you can go and do what you do best. Bamboo HR also has robust hiring and onboarding tools that will streamline the process, thus creating much better first days and first impressions for those new hires. Plus, Bamboo HR prides itself on being super easy, easy to use, easy to learn, easy to implement, and very easy to love. Take a couple minutes to check out the free demo and see how nimble and affordable this valuable tool can be. HR is hard, but Bamboo HR is easy. I can't recommend Bamboo HR enough. Check it out for yourself with a free demo at bamboohr.comfree demo. That's bamboohr.com/free demo. bamboohr.comfree demo. As many of you know, Chris and I run entrepreneurial masterminds, which means we not only run our own businesses, which we have multiple of, and our personal brands, but we also get to be inside of hundreds of entrepreneurial businesses a year, if not thousands, with our online businesses as well. So with that we totally understand that all of us are facing so many challenges whether it's AI or inflation or political decisions so many things feel out of your control and that's why growing your business is the only way forward it's so important to grow grow especially your email list you guys and Constant Contacts award-winning marketing platform is here to make marketing way easier and way more effective for a small business like yours. The best part, you don't need to know anything about marketing. You struggle with expensive, slow, and unmeasurable marketing is over. With their all-in-one platform, you can create and manage attention grabbing campaigns in just a few clicks. Email, text, social media, events, landing pages, you name it. It's all in one place. No more juggling dozens of different tools. You also get automated sending, real-time reporting, and tools that actually help drive sales. So, you're not just marketing your business, you're growing it. And if you ever get stuck, friendly phone support is included with every plan. That's why over half a million small businesses trust Constant Contact to stay connected, top of mind, and ahead of the competition. Constant Contact, helping the small stand tall. You guys, I'm so glad I found Constant Contact and can't wait to get started. Get a free 30-day trial when you go to constantcont.com. Try Constant free for 30 days at constantcont.com. Number three, most important, I can't even say most important. I take that back. Number three, equally as important, say the scary thing out loud and proclaim it. So, when I worked at LA Fitness, when I hadn't graduated, when I wanted to be or when I had just become a brand new personal trainer after flunking that test twice, you guys, so when I finally became a personal trainer and I started working at LA Fitness, I was making $6 per 30 minute session. Now, I used to tell every single client my big dream, and that was to own my own gym. I wanted to later be on magazine covers, but I really felt like owning my own gym and studio and small personal uh training space would be the first jumping off point for me to really get my reps in and start making money because at the time, as some of you already know, Chris and I uh were married for a little while. We ended up losing everything and he was the main bread winner. So, we lost our home, we lost our cars, we were about $300,000 in debt. We borrowed some money from his parents which wiped out their retirement account because we borrowed all of it to get back on our feet. So there was a lot of risk and guilt riding on us being successful and trying to figure it out. So when I started at LA Fitness and I was making $6 per 30-minut session, I was like, I'm never going to get out of debt this way. Like I'm gonna be 80 years old by the time I even pay off this debt with my living expenses, etc. And so I just had to lean into the the fear that comes with telling people what feels so inauthentic. So I'm making $6 per 30 minute session. I hadn't graduated high school, which I was still lying about not telling anyone about. And I was saying, "I want to own a gym. I want to be on magazine covers." And even though it felt so like out far outside of my reality, I just kept saying it to everyone. And fast forward a year or maybe a little more than a year. I had a woman who was a little older than me, not by much. She was like 27 or 28 years old and I was around 26 and she owned a chiropractic. She just opened a brand new chiropractic center. So this was a big leap for her and a big risk and I'd trained her for a while all like very frequently. So we knew each other pretty well. And she said, "Hey, I know what your big dream is. Like you always tell me. I have this lower level of my chiropractic center. It's an unfinished basement and you know totally unfinished like 2x4s and you can see the wiring and all that stuff but it's a big space and it's yours if you train me for free and I think I trained some of her employees as well but she's like it's yours in exchange for training for a little while which ended up being like I think it was probably a month or two until I get on my feet, get clients and can pay her rent. So I don't think it was more than two weeks later that I was in that lower level of that unfinished basement. I immediately said yes, even though I was freaked out, took my ass to Walmart and bought really cheap equipment because I had your girl had no money. So, I bought a bunch of cheap equipment. I got those little squares that you put down in like a playroom, you know, that like clip all together. So, it looked like some kind of, you know, jigsaw puzzle down there with some mirrors that you stick on the back of a door. Um, that are like $8 each from Walmart. You know what I'm talking about? And I started training people. And if I wouldn't have told everyone I come in contact with what my big dream was, even though it felt so inauthentic, even though I felt like a total fraud, even though it felt so far out of reach, I would have never ever ever ever been or gotten to where I'm at today. So, this is your sign to make sure that you are saying your dream out loud. And those people, all of my clients knew I was obsessed with this. They knew my goal was to get on magazine covers, to be a celebrity trainer, and to have my own space. And they all got on board with me, you guys. So many of them ended up coming over to where I was without me saying anything. And so many people ended up starting to train with me. So, you have to give off that energy. People want to be with obsessive energy because it's clear. It's clear. You know where you're going. And like Tony Robbins says, the most certain person in the room will win. And I was the most certain person on that vision, even though it wasn't totally certain inside of me, I made sure when I said it, it felt good. It felt right, and I knew where I was going. So you guys, I hope that this helps. I love you so much. And again, if you guys don't know, I'm going to be that 25% off coupon for Glossy is going to be going away. You will still get a discount, but it's going to pop down to 15%. So, if you have not tried Glossy yet, you can go to getloscey.com and use code happy for 25% off right now. And that is just for you, my amazing podcast listeners. And I'm so grateful for you. I hope that you love it because I am obsessed. What you're about to see come from this company within the next year is going to legitimately blow your mind because it has become an obsession. I have remembered what it takes to make something huge. So, I'm excited for you to follow along the journey. I'm excited for you to be a part of it. I hope that you are. I hope that you're one of those essentially first customers who are going to try Glossy and be a part of this journey because if you're in my community, you're obviously getting all of my awesome newsletters. And also, I do an amazing monthly call every single month with this Glossy community. And I'm telling you, it's popping off. It is so incredible. And the women in there are blowing my mind and they're becoming amazing friends. and it's one of the most beautiful things that I've gotten to do. So, go and check it out. And that happens when you become a subscriber. So, go to get glossy.com, use code happy for 25% off, become a subscriber, become a part of that community. Get in my world and let's make it happen. I want to make those big dreams happen simultaneously with you you guys. And this is how we do it. So, until next time, earn your happy. Bye, everyone.