Hi everyone, I'm Luri Harter and this is your spot to reconnect to your soul and get the tips and inspiration that you need to fall in love with your life. So today I want to talk to you guys about a question that keeps coming up from a lot of people and that is how do I bust out of a funk? So, I know a lot of people are either in one right now or it's something that maybe happens to you quite often. And I'm going to tell you that even the most successful people fall into a crazy funk more often than you would ever ever guess. But the difference is that we have our funkbusting rituals and we know exactly what to do to get out of a funk. So, does this happen all the time to a lot of people? Of course it does. It's just that we don't exactly wake up every single day and put on our social media, "Oh man, I'm in a funk again." We just know what to do and we take those steps and we take the action to get it done. So, what are some of the things that you can do to make sure that if you can tell that you have one of those funky days coming on or those funky feelings coming on and you know that your day could spiral downward real fast, what are some of the things that you can do? Well, I have some major go-to things that I do every single day. Uh because today was actually one of those funky days where I woke up and I just was not feeling it. I I if I would have had my way, I would have crawled underneath a blanket and ate 27 bags of Pop Chips and maybe thrown in a side of Doritos. So, instead of doing that, because that's not going to get me close to my goals, and that's not going to make me feel good, and that certainly is not going to make me want to inspire you guys to tell you what I did. So my five things that I do are moving my body, getting outside, meditation, reading, and connecting with people. So those are the five things that I try to do on a daily basis in order to stay out of a funk or get out of a funk. So, what I would do if I were you and you have not implemented any of these yet is to pick maybe two or three and try to implement them every day. So, if it's overwhelming to you, do the bare minimum. So, if you want to start meditating, try five minutes. Look up a free meditation. Maybe if you don't meditate, try praying for five minutes. I like to combine the two in about a 20 minute meditation and prayer session and that works great for me. How about moving your body? This is my number one to be honest with you. Um, if I'm feeling funky, if I'm feeling extra tired or groggy or like I just cannot shake that off, I absolutely make it my number one plan to move my body. And if you can move your body outside, that is even better. So, this is what I want you to do. I want you to pick your top two or three. If you're a pro at this and this is not new to you, I want you to pick your five and implement them every day. Otherwise, pick your top two or three. Do the bare minimum and see if you can bust out of your funk. But I will tell you if you're not doing these and you're still asking this question, this is your reason why you are still stuck. So do it. Do it every day. These are called rituals because it's something I do every day. And then when I feel funky and I haven't done these, I know that I'm to blame. So taking responsibility for that is huge. So get your rituals. I want to hear about them. Put them in the comments. And I am doing something really, really fun this week. I am going to send somebody a personalized cookbook and here's how you can get it. All you have to do is comment below as usual. Let me know what three to five rituals you're using and how they're working for you. And make sure that you click share and share this on Facebook with your friends who you know you need it. And I'm going to pick one person and send that out to you. So you guys, I cannot wait to see the comments. I can't wait to see the shares. And thank you guys so much. I will see you next week. Mwah. Bye-bye.