You're going to hear things like, "Oh, that's risky. Are you sure you want to do that? What if it doesn't work out?" And it sounds protective, but it's really their anxiety being handed to you, and you're carrying it after that. The people who love us the most are often the ones who unintentionally hold us back the most. And it's not because they don't love us. It's because our dreams feel unsafe to them. Welcome back to the podcast. It's time for another quickie because there's always time to fit in inspiration. And today I want to chat with you about how your family, your partner, and maybe even some of your best friends are unintentionally or maybe even a little bit intentional sabotaging you. And it's usually the people that we care about the most when we set out to go for our big dreams that are going to be the people who actually end up making a dent in having us do it or not do it. And we can't ever blame anybody else at all. That is not what this podcast is about. I want you to be aware of where your best friends, your partner, your family are human and where you can sort of be prepared and safeguard yourself and work through these conversations. So, number one, we can keep them in our lives. We can grow together, but so we can be aware that this is a very, very normal thing that's going to happen because it is. I know so many women who always try to come into our masterminds or groups and I swear to you, one of the main conversations is that their husband kind of minimizes or makes fun of what they're doing or doesn't think they can do it and I never see them again. They just kind of disappear out into the ether because somebody said something to them that didn't feel good or struck fear in them and they let it get to them and completely take over. And look, I I totally get it because my husband actually did this to me in the beginning and we talk about it all the time now because he used to say, "Oh, when is this little expensive hobby of yours going to finally make money?" And he even said, "If this doesn't start, you know, making the type of money that we need, like you need to piss or get off the pot and let this little hobby go." And so, you know, in the beginning that can feel really, really threatening. It can feel really scary. It can feel demeaning. It can make you feel shameful. It can make you feel selfish. It can make you be like, "Oh my gosh, of course I need to be realistic. What am I thinking? Who am I to think that? Oh my god, the audacity to think that I even could have done this." Right? So, it's definitely going to come and I just want you to be prepared for it. And what we don't want is for you to get all frustrated and buttth hurt by the people that you love the most. Because what I want you to know is they still love you, but they may not support you or be able to understand where your dreams are coming from or even know if you are capable of doing them. That's what you have to know. So, let's talk about how the people that you love the most might be sabotaging your big dreams. Because let's be honest, the people who love us the most are often the ones who unintentionally hold us back the most. And it's not because they don't love us. It's because our dreams feel unsafe to them. So, let's talk about the sneaky little ways that our partners, parents, and even our best friends might be sabotaging us without knowing it. So, the first one is fear projection. This is such a human thing to do. They project their fear onto you. And you're going to hear things like, "Ooh, that's risky. Are you sure you want to do that? what if it doesn't work out? And it sounds protective, but it's really their anxiety being handed to you and you're carrying it after that. So, one of the reframes that you can just really sit in is realizing that that is actually their fear. They don't have the plan that you have. They don't see the vision that you can see. The fear is on them. And what you can do is you can thank them for caring. And then you can keep going like I I thank you. I see you. I appreciate you caring, but I'm going to keep on going. Number two is withholding support. So, they don't actively discourage you, but they also don't cheer you on. And a lot of times when people are waiting for people to cheer them on, this is almost a personal form of sabotage where it's like, well, if they don't support me, if they don't cheer me on, then I'm upset with them and I don't have the support from my family and this is why I can't do it. Right? Maybe they change the subject when you talk about your goals or act like it's not a big deal. And that silence is going to make you question yourself. So the reframe can be not everyone is meant to be your hype squad. Not everyone is going to understand. What you have to do is you have to find the people who light up when you talk about your big dreams and have the answers to help you with your big dreams and normalize any of these fears and any of these risks and also normalize the path and how challenging that path is going to be. This is why I pay to be in masterminds. This is why I pay a shitload for coaches. This is why you see me going to things all the time and putting myself around huge thinkers is they normalize the process where you guys I went to coffee with some people the other day who were not entrepreneurs and I was like holy [\h__\h] like I can't even talk about what my life looks like every day because they couldn't even fathom like the things that I do on a daily basis. I am not making them bad. They just live in a very different world where if I said the risks that I carry, the decisions that I make, and the things that I do, and how fast I move and ask for really big things or go for big things on a daily basis, it was not even comprehendable to them. And I didn't love the feedback that I was getting. So, I had this realization just like all of you right now or you've had in the past. I'm like, "Ooh, I really have to be careful what circles I'm speaking this massive dream into because if people don't get it, the feeling that they deflect back on to you is pretty intense. Like energy is a real thing." And I'm like, "Oh, you know what? We're just going to we're going to talk about we're going to find some common ground. We're going to talk about something totally different." So, number three is guilt tripping. They make you feel guilty for putting time, energy, or money into your dream by saying you're never around anymore. Or it must be nice to just focus on yourself. And you know, I hope that you're loving that little business and all the time that you're putting into it because we sure haven't gotten to see you or I sure hope that pays off because I really noticed that it's putting a strain on your relationships or I feel like it's putting a strain on our relationship. And I think the reframe with this is really important to know where boundaries matter because your dreams are going to require investment and most of the time those dreams are going to benefit the person who's probably saying it. So, I think bringing them in, inviting them along, telling them why it's important that you're doing it and the fact that you do want to grow something and grow something for the family or you have big visions for your life or maybe you just have not felt good or happy without doing these things for yourself and it's starting to reflect in how you show up in the family. Like, really bring them along and tell them why this is so important to you. Most times stuff like this is just a communication problem. And if they don't have the vision and if they don't necessarily have the capacity to understand, you need to explain it to them in a way that is so loving and brings them along. Because if you know that you're the person who maybe has a little bit more emotional capacity in this particular experience, then you're the one who has to kind of buck up and turn the other cheek and carry that. I know that doesn't seem fair, but if you're talking to someone who doesn't have the capacity to understand what you're doing, don't argue with someone who's not going to listen and give you a chance to really talk. So, it is your responsibility to kind of take them along. Or if you have to, you might have to cut this person out for a little while if it is someone that you can kind of hold to arms length for a little bit. Number four, they're probably going to highlight worst case scenarios. I've had this so many times. So, they're going to play devil's advocate over and over again. They're going to say, "Let me tell you why I don't think this is going to work." Or, "Let me tell you about your cousin who did this or your sister, or remember what happened to this person. Oh, I heard a story about this and they lost all this money or maybe this person's going to jail." You guys, I don't know. They say the craziest things sometimes and I'm like, where did this even come from? But you have to decide yourself what worst case scenario is. Are people going to say stuff about you? Could you lose everything? Could you be okay with that? If that does happen, these are the questions that you have to ask yourself when you go into entrepreneurship. How far are you willing to go? And what is that line that maybe you put on yourself of here's how far I'm going to go? Here's the line I'm not going to cross. Here's the nest egg I'm always going to keep no matter what because it's very different if you have a family. I totally understand that. And those are the decisions that you have to make. So the reframe on this though is what if it works? What if someone has to hold the vision for best case scenario, you guys? And that someone always has to be you. You always have to know, okay, what's the worst that could happen? Can I handle that? And then what is best case scenario? And once you've already covered what's worst case scenario, you can toss that out the window because you know you're set, right? And now the only vision I want you guys to hold or the only vision that's going to hold you and get you to the finish line is bestcase scenario. And as a visionary, as an entrepreneur, you have to always be holding that. Number five, they're going to sabotage you through subtle little undermining jokes or sarcasm. They're going to say things like, "Oh, here comes the entrepreneur of the year." And it feels playful, but it's actually really shitty when it lands on your heart. And we have to remember that the reframe is that jokes are often truth in disguise. and it's probably kind of pinging them in a way that they realize they did not go after what they wanted to do. So don't take them as truth, you guys. Take them as fuel. Like go and just take so much action that one day you can say, "Remember that little business?" Yeah. Well, that little business is going to take you on the trip of a lifetime or that little business mom is going to buy you a house or whatever you want. Whatever feels good, whatever sort of thing in your mind actually fuels you. Or maybe you're feeling opposite and you're like, remember that little business? Yeah, I'm out of here. Whatever it is, you guys, whatever fuels you in a loving, beautiful way to keep going for your big dream, that's what we want to hold on to. Number six, the last way, which there's plenty of more ways, but this is my last and final one, is that they're going to overemphasize stability. They're going to push you toward this safer, more traditional path because it's what they know. They're always going to say something like, "You really need to get a stable job or don't you just want something where you know your retirement is good?" And the reframe on that is stability for them doesn't equal fulfillment for you. And you're not here to repeat their path and their cycle. You're here to create your own path and your own life. And also stability does not exist. Let me tell you a little story about stability. And that is my husband was in the most incredible job in the financial industry and the entire mortgage and finance industry in 2008 completely collapsed to the point where there were no jobs. So, we went from making a ton of money and overspending when we were in our 20s to completely in debt with him no place to go, no jobs in actual existence of what he was doing in that time period from a job where everyone said, "Oh, it's banking. I mean, it's homes. It's I mean, it's the most stable thing out there to completely losing it." So, nothing nothing is stable. And I will say I will always bet on myself. And if for any reason anyone ever needs to go and find a job, let me just tell you there are jobs available, especially for people who are willing to hustle. Like I love the creator economy. I love the fact that you could pick up a Uber or Door Dash or Instacart or anything like that for extra cash at the flip of turning something on on your phone. It's actually quite mindblowing. So the way that I look at the world is just the endless opportunities are out there. So I am going to bet on myself first. If nothing is stable, I have the most control over me. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with your customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24/7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every single time. Get started for free today or use codeappy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com/happy brevo.com/happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. One of the most stressful things about moving into a new home is all the little details you don't think about at first, like window treatments. In our last home, I used blinds.com for our blinds and our curtains, and it was honestly such a seamless experience. They sent me samples super fast. They helped me choose what would look best, and the turnaround time was fast. Thank God because our windows weren't covered. Everything was easy, beautiful, and done without the headache that I expected. That's why I'm so excited to share blinds.com with you because they've truly reinvented the way we shop for custom window treatments. So maybe you even just want to upgrade what you have right now. There's no more waiting around all day for an in-home designer just to get an overpriced quote. So with blinds.com, you can shop 100% online or get expert advice through virtual design consultations, all on your schedule. Whether you know exactly what you want or you need help deciding, blinds.com makes it simple, you can do it yourself or you can let their pros handle everything from measure to install. Either way, you'll have experts by your side every step. And you'll get the same designer look that you see in a showroom without the showroom prices. Plus, they've got so much more than blinds. Think bamboo shades, shutters, even outdoor patio shades. And every order is backed by their 100% satisfaction guarantee. With 29 years in business and over 25 million windows covered, they're the number one online retailer for a reason. Right now, Blinds.com is giving our listeners an exclusive $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout. Limited time offer. Rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. So, I hope that this helps because I have been through each and every one of these with pretty much every single person that I love in my life. And it can either bring you closer because you're going to have a hard conversation and you're going to say why this stuff matters and why you know you'd appreciate if you could just go and do your thing and not have them say the comments anymore. Or you can also just deal with it and know that this is such a human thing and let it be okay that you don't share the same views and that it's okay that they're more risk averse than you. like be the bigger person in this scenario and know that you got blessed with maybe a little more vision and a little bit more capacity and you can also show them what's possible for them. I know this is hard. I know it's not fun when it happens. I know it feels like a single person in your life who means a lot to you can completely take you down and demolish your dreams. But this is the path. The second you say you want to do something, people you love are going to come in and it's going to cut you at the knees. Like it's going to take you down. And that's literally the first step of if you should be an entrepreneur or not. Like if you can't handle that, you should not be in entrepreneurship. And it's okay if you felt it. But now I want you to move through it and I want you to do these reframes and I want you to understand that you got the [\h__\h] initiation. So congratulations. And I still get like things like this in my family. Like there's still people who totally don't understand or make fun of what I do or oh, you just have to film yourself for your career or what whatever it is. And people who get totally cringed out by the fact that I'm filming parts of my life and they literally can't believe it and it's so off-putting and they think it's horrible. And I've had different people unfollow me who are close to me, family members and people in my life. So you guys, it's just the initiation and it just says that you're on the path to breaking a pattern. If it ruffles feathers in your family, it's because you're doing something different that is going to get a different result because if you did everything they liked, you'd have the same results. So you guys, I'm sending you so much love. And the 25% off discount for Glossy is going to go away very, very soon. I know I've been saying that, but we're keeping it a little longer. So, if you want to try it, you can go to getglose.com and use code happy for 25% off. I swear to you, I have never felt better in my entire life. And of course, I work out and I take different supplements and I try to eat right, but Glossy is one of the main things that makes me wake up in the morning and feel amazing with a flat stomach, less bloated. I just know that taking that probiotic, that magnesium, drinking all of the water with it, vitamin C, especially the hyaluronic acid for my skin. You guys, I'm 44 years old and I am putting so much energy into my skin at this point because, you know, we're getting older and things happen to your skin and collagen decreases and hyaluronic acid in your body that you create decreases. So, I am ramping all of that up more than I ever have and you guys should go and check it out because it makes a massive difference. So, thank you guys so much for tuning in and I know that you are in a place where you are going to do big things cuz you listen to this podcast and it's never been more exciting for me to hear all of the people who have taken big leaps, big risks because they've been listening and they have borrowed the stories and borrowed the belief of this podcast. So, I'm grateful for you guys and until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.