This podcast is sponsored by the following sponsors. The Real Real. Buy and sell luxury clothing, bags, and more on The Real Real. Get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. Shopify, the e-commerce platform I trust for Glossy. Sign up for your $1 a month trial period at shopify.com/happy. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit northwestregistered agent.com/earn Airbnb. Start making money by listing your home on Airbnb with the support of an experienced co-host. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/host. Get Notion mail for free right now at notion.com/earn. And try the inbox that thinks like you. That's all lowercase letters. Notion.com to get notion mail for free right now. I just for some reason can see exactly the missing opportunity that other people can't see that's right in front of them. And I just I think it's a fun thing to do. And so I'm going to give some ideas part-time. You know, they might be an extra grand or two a month. I'm going to give some ideas that are, you know, could be full-time. I'm going to give some ideas that could be six figures, but you're doing it part-time, but it's going to take a lot of work. I'm going to give some online, some in person. So, if you hear the first couple and they're not for you, stick with us because these are some really diverse types of ideas. Some online, some in person, etc. And we're back with another episode of He Said, She said Said. And we are back in the space serving businesses from 0 to $500,000. I guess really we say $25,000 to $500,000. But we haven't been in this space for over four years. And we just launched the new product, the mentor collector mastermind. And it's going so freaking awesome. I think what's most exciting about working with this group of people is that there's usually so much lowhanging fruit that you and I can do and that our coaches can do because there's so much room to grow. Yep. Absolutely. And listen, I don't want to turn this into some big long ad. But here's why we're bringing it up. There's only a few days left. Matter of fact, when this thing comes out, there's only a couple days left probably to get the founder pricing right. We just launched it. That means it's thousands and thousands of dollars off right now with the founders pricing sales. So all the original members are going to get into it. So it's a massive savings. Uh rush over to chrishearter.mme/mentor or loryhearter.com/metor. They both go to the same place and grab a seat before it's too late. And by the way, when I say it's thousands and thousands of dollars off, that's not to scare you, make you think, "Oh my god, it must be really expensive." You can get started for as low as like $850 a month, I believe it is. And then you have a 30-day money back guarantee. So you can literally be like, "All right, here's my 850. Do I like it or not?" And then peace, I'm out if I don't like it, or I'm staying if I absolutely love it. And just to to bring you up to speed in case you're like, "Oh, wait. What is it? I haven't heard this." It's literally the most supportive mastermind on the entire internet. And the way we achieved that is we went out and hired coaches for every part of business you would ever, ever need. And so if you need a legal coach because you have a question about, you know, should I have a contract here or am I do I need a trademark here or if you need a social media coach or if you need a a podcast coach or a tech an AI coach or any of those things, we put them on salary. So now you get to ask them as many one-on-one questions as you want on demand. And we call it questions on demand. It's freaking awesome. And then we support that by creating community. And Lori and I working on your business, there's weekly calls. And so, uh, one out of every two weeks, so mean every other week, Lori and I are answering your business questions directly. And then the other weeks, the coaches are answering your businesses, uh, directly, plus teaching you. Everything about it is so supportive and awesome. So, go to chrisarter.me/metor or lorihartter.com/metor because the founder pricing is going to go away at the end of this week coming up. Wild. Okay, so speaking of businesses, you and I dream up more businesses than we know what to do with. like, "Wait, why don't we share some of these on an episode and just like here's some of the cool money-making ideas for 2025." Every single walk. It's like a real It's actually sometimes a problem and we're like, "Okay, we're not starting any of these, but it's so fun to talk about." So, we're going to share them with you because we really want you to understand how people are making money right now and how they're starting to make money. Because I think in the past, it was really like, "Okay, what am I going to do? What's my full-time gig?" And now people are piecing together money from so many different areas. And if you've listened to this podcast at all throughout the years, Chris and I are massive advocates for multiple income streams. Chris and I right now, if you saw all of the different income streams that come in, you'd be like, "Holy crap, I had no idea they were getting paid in all of these different ways." And it's vital, you guys, because at any given time, your biggest income stream could go away. And we have experienced this. We've experienced big income streams going away. We've experienced small income streams going away, middle income streams going away. And this is why we have so many different ones and why we're always focused on other ways that we can make money. Now, I don't want you guys to get so overloaded that you're kind of not making any money anywhere because you're so scattered. But what we want this to be today is a brain jogger, a creative jogger for you to understand that it's not bleak out there. There's actually so many different ways for you to piece together hundreds of dollars here, thousands of dollars there, tens of thousands of dollars here. It's very important that you start opening up your mind to the new way of things getting done. I saw something really cool. It was a stat and uh it was not not like a madeup stat like a Harvard study that kind of thing and it said by 2027 50% of the workforce will be working from home or as a gig worker. Like let that sink in. So think of all the employees that work as a W2 employee right now. They're all being shifted real quickly especially because of AI. Yeah. Uh to really work from home like hey if you're a graphic artist do that from home. If you're a copywriter do it from home. Uh, and 50% of the workforce is going to be that in just a few years. That's wild. I just interviewed an eight figureure founder. She is literally gonna hit eight figures this year. And I was asking her who she uses, if she has in-house employees for like some of her really big stuff, like her website person for when they're running sales and doing different things and just I asked her a ton of different questions about who she uses and she said, "You're not going to believe this. I literally still to this day get most of my people to help me with those things from Upwork and Fiverr. Mhm. And I was blown away. She's like, "It's gotten so good and so much better and you can see their work." And she's like, "I try not to have these people on my payroll because as a startup, sorry, she's not a startup, but as somebody when she was starting up, she just got used to working this way and now she loves it." Yeah. I mean, I don't want to say who, but we have a friend, a company we invested in, you know, eight figure company, and the bulk majority of his workforce is all gig workers, right? And he's like, "Oh, I just need this designer for a month here. Oh, I just need this customer service thing for this influx here. I just need," Right? So, that's the new workforce, guys. You already know that. We're not telling you anything new, but the point is there's opportunity all around you because you think it's that way now. It's about to be that way on steroids. And Lori mentioned like Etsy, Upwork, Fiverr, you know, Uber, Instacart. Shout out to the OGs that really created the gig economy. We're not going to go over those today, even though those are all great, viable options. Uh, but those are just a tip of the iceberg, right? They've been around for a while. And I think most of you listening, you're even more entrepreneurial than the traditional side hustler. You're not like, "Oh, I want to go drive a little bit in the evenings," which is super cool and totally awesome, by the way. But that's not the kind of ideas we're going to give. These are going to be a little bit more like one more step, two more steps, three more steps into being a real entrepreneur in these types of of ideas. But man, shout out to like Chris, the guy that we met on TaskRabbit, who's really a handyman. He makes a killing, a really good living, literally advertising on TaskRabbit. That's how we found him. And then letting people know all the things he can do. He's a jack of all all trades. He, a buddy, and a truck makes six figures each. and they don't work any other jobs and they're crushing it and they love it. He spent no less than four full days at our house doing things when we first moved in and this guy could literally do everything. But we want you to think in terms of that if you're someone with the skill, you could literally be making what they're making. Um, depending on where you live especially cuz there's such a demand you guys for handyman work out and handy woman. Way to be sexist, Lori. I'm just handy. You're the handy one in a couple. I truly am. I need to I'm the handsy one and you're the handy one. Great. Is that on Upwork? Um, okay. So, what's so cool, Chris, is you are like you are an insane strategist to the point where I feel like you could literally monetize anything. I mean, you're going to be real about it. You're not going to, you know, tell people that they're going to be able to monetize something that you don't see could actually be monetized. But why don't we start rolling um talking about what you think especially for the future and the way things are going. It really is a superpower, right? I just for some reason can see exactly the missing opportunity that other people can't see that's right in front of them. And I just I think it's a fun thing to do. And so I'm going to give some ideas are part-time. You know, they might be an extra grand or two a month. I'm going to give some ideas that are, you know, could be full-time. I'm going to give some ideas that could be six figures, but you're doing it part-time, but it's going to take a lot of work. I'm going to give some online, some in person. So if you hear the first couple and they're not for you, stick with us because these are some really diverse types of ideas. Some online, some in person, etc. So the first one is this. Now obviously AI is changing everything right now. And it's an AI prompt maker. What the heck is an AI prompt maker? People are making a killing right now creating these series of prompts to use AI to get certain outcomes. Here's an example. Uh, traditionally people that have sold therapy or coaching in the past, the smart ones now instead of trading their time for money, they're selling these series of specific prompts or prompt packages that turns chat GPT into like your therapist or into your coach. And now they don't have to do it, but instead you literally upload like, okay, uh, first tell chat GPT what type of therapist you want to be or coach. then tell it you uh to ask you these five sentences in this order and uh ask it not to move on until you get to blah blah blah and they always put some of their IP in there to make a special and you follow this map of prompts and it's awesome. Yeah. Somebody um who is doing this right now is story brand has actually decided to turn a lot of their stuff into prompts because they can see the future. And so this is really cool. Think of if you have something that you're putting people through some sort of big session and you're like, "Oh my god, this is maybe going away because of chat GBT can do it." Well, it can, but it can't quite do it exactly the way that maybe you can or these other companies can. So looking at something that you see could go away in the future and either creating their prompts for them or taking what you have and creating prompts. So for example, when I was listening to this podcast, I was like, "This is insane. I can literally put my company Glossy through these this story brand prompt but I need all the prompts. Like even me doing it myself isn't exactly like I wasn't getting the outcomes that I really wanted. I was getting some great ones but I was like man if I could have you know from the company these prompts that would rock. Yeah. So be a prompt maker. Like for anything you guys I've seen prompt packages and I want you to think courses right people used to sell courses now they're selling prompt packages. Uh, so I've seen packages for prompts that build a budget for you or prompts that get you out of debt. I've seen them for creating like healthy menus based on specific like I'm a diabetic. Here's your set of diabetic prompts to have a full month worth of menus. You know what I mean? I've seen it for legal docs like to create standard contracts. I've seen it for pet training. I've seen it for, you know, far more complex things like how to build and train an AI agent and which is like an assistant or somebody who can like uh create a summary of your emails. People know that chat GPT and Lauri, you already said this, and Perplexity and all the other ones out there, they know that they're available to do these things, but 99% of people, including us, don't know the right prompts to get the exact outcome. So, they try it and they get frustrated and they say, "I don't understand this AI thing." But if you give them a prompts package, and you guys, people are paying $19, $29 up to I've seen $99, $199, $199 for prompt packages. So if you give them these, you can make a killing helping other people navigate AI. These are great optins as well, you guys, because let me just tell you, it is all about building that email list and that text list because uh social media is being shown to people less and less right now, honestly. Yep. and we have to be better. You have to do it more. You have to really understand social media and you have to make really good content. So, I would say really uh get yourself some amazing opt-ins and this is a great idea. Yeah. So, monetize it or use it as an opt-in, but this is big big business for the next four to five years. Okay. Next business idea. Should we do another one? Go for it. All right. Sticking with AI for a minute. Don't worry. We're going to get out of AI here in a moment, but this is really relevant to the world right now. a digital clone builder or a digital clone consultant. So, here's what I mean. Yeah, I'll explain this. Uh Lori and I have digital clones of oursel. You can literally go on and ask it anything and it'll answer as though it was Lori in her real brain. It'll answer as though it was me in my real brain. And we have tried it and it's insane. But they've been highly trained and curated to get them there. And the person that builds this clone and trains it to be exactly like you. That's what I mean by a digital clone consultant or a digital clone uh builder or creator. Takes a lot to train it. Like you literally have to go back through everything you've ever put out essentially on the internet in order to train this. Yep. And now this might sound intimidating, right? You're like, "Oh, I don't know how to do that." But it's actually easy because the software is already built. Like go to Deli, deli.AI, I think it is. The software is already built. So, you're not building software. You're the person that's getting paid to take the time to be like, "Okay, Lori, you want to be one? I've got to upload all of your podcasts. I've got to upload all of your YouTube that's out there. I've got to upload all of your social media posts that are out there. I've got to train it on all the books that you've ever read." Right? So, Lori, what books have you ever read? I've got to train it on your favorite podcasts that you listen to. What are your favorite podcasts? the more information that is specific to quote unquote the lorries of the world who thinks certain things, publishes certain things, says certain things, right? They had to pull your book in everything. That's a lot of work, guys. But the people that do this, they're charging5 to$10,000 to take the, you know, the the Dely software and do this for people like Lori and I. So, this is big money. Anyone can learn to do this. It's really just admin work. It's lots and lots of admin work that you can capitalize on the AI trend right now and then lots of pitching. And no part of this are we are you going to get out of being your best salesperson. No part of this are you going to get out of having to pitch everything that you do. Guys, sales is always one of the biggest like it is one of the most important things that you do. So everything that we say I think there's so much opportunity but you also have to really focus on pitching in sales. Yeah. So, any of you can learn to do this and this is a 10 to 20 to $30,000 a month type of thing once you learn how to do this and how to sell and any of you can learn this and the sooner the better because people will be learning this. Yep. I'm seeing a few of them pop up now. And a close cousin to this, by the way, and this is way more complex than what I just described is designing AI agents for people. And I won't get into that, but it's way more complex, but it's huge money. And if you don't know what an AI agent is, it's basically like training this AI agent to aggregate and respond to all your emails for you or training it to summarize all of your favorite news for a day or all the sports for a day and have it prepared for you. Almost like an assistant used to bring you your little package in the morning like here's your favorite articles and I highlighted all the point. You know what I mean? That's what an AI agent is. Okay, so next business idea, a high-end concierge for individual people or couples. Now, this is actually a massively growing segment. I'll give you example. There's dog walking and then there's rich people dog walking and there's a very big difference. It's all in how you position it. And positioning matters. And by the way, here's a tip for your business. No matter what you're doing, positioning matters. And rich people pay more. Busy people pay more. That's just the way the world works. So, what do I mean by a concierge? You're not doing things that are any different than what other people might do. But the way you position it and who you go after, like I said, totally matters. Uh, if you call yourself a dog walker, you get dog walking rates. If you call yourself a concierge and dog walking is one of the things that you get to do, you get concierge rates for the dog walking, right? So, it might be the difference between, I don't know, $25 an hour and, you know, $85 an hour. I think we pay this amazing, God, I love them to death, local couple an average of 250 to 300 bucks a week depending on, you know, what we have to have done, whether it's walking the dogs because we can't do the evening one or we can't do the morning one or uh staying at the house when we're gone or quite often meeting contractors here uh or coming and getting the packages off the front and and bringing them in, right? Things that we're too busy to do. Well, that adds up to $1,000 or $1,500 or $1,800 a month totally part-time just kind of being a concierge for these types of things. And rich people love concier services. Think house manager, right? You're managing their life or life manager because they're too busy to do this or they become too cushy, I hate to say it, to do some of these things themselves. And the truth is, when you're too busy and you can't keep up doing these things, then you need amazing people like you in their life to be able to do it and they'll pay handsomely for it. So, this is like one of those part-time extra one two $3,000 a month type of things that you can fit in around your stuff. Positioning the way you pitch yourself, how you show up when you pitch yourself. That's really important that if you want a clientele who is willing to pay more, it will matter how you show up. It will matter what you pitch them with. It needs to look good. And you need to look good when you show up. You need to look put together. You need to look like you care because that's what they're looking for. If they're about to let you in their house and their personal life and to take care of these very personal things, it really, really matters how you present yourself. Yeah, absolutely. And here's one more little factor around this. The divide in the economy is just getting bigger, right? Let's call it what it is. is the rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer, and the middle class is getting screwed. And so, one of the ways to really supplement your income is you can serve the people who have, you know, less and less buying power, or you can serve the people that have that are growing quickly, have more and more buying power. So, the smart thing there is repackage your services, position them better, and go serve the people that have a lot more buying power. Okay. Should we do another one? Yeah. I'm so excited to share that this podcast is sponsored by The Real Real, the best place to shop authenticated luxury bags, clothing, watches, and so much more. Personally, I love finding unique elevated pieces that feel like me, and The Real Real is one of my favorite places to discover them. Whether I'm looking for a one-of-a-kind Zimmerman dress or a classic YSL bag, I know I'm getting something super special and I'm getting it at a great value. The Real Real is attainable luxury that upgrades your personal style. With up to 90% off retail, you can finally have the pieces you've been dreaming of from brands like Gucci, Fendi, Prada, and so many others. Unlike other resale sites, everything The Real Real sells is authenticated in person by luxury and fashion experts. The Real Real is the go-to place for your next special piece. Need a dress for a fancy wedding? The perfect vacation sandals? Ready to invest in a new bag to add to your collection? Find exactly what you're looking for that no one else has at The Real Real. The Real Real is the world's largest and most trusted resource for authenticated luxury resale. With thousands of new arrivals daily, no one does resale like The Real Real. And now get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. That's the realreal.com/happhy to get your $25 off. Start shopping now at the realreal.com/happy. When I first started Glossy, I was so overwhelmed. I felt like I had to do everything on my own because you do. And your to-do list just keeps mounting. But let me tell you, when you're starting off with something new, it just seems like that list is growing and growing and growing and it can quickly overrun your life. So, you have to start learning to find the right tools that can not only help you out, but simplify everything. And that is a gamecher. And let me tell you, for millions of businesses, that tool is Shopify. And I am included in those numbers. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started, and I'm going to add mine to the list, Glossy. Get started with your own design studio. with hundreds of readytouse templates. Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. And you guys, I love my website so much. That's on Shopify. Go and check it out. Also, Shopify is your e-commerce expert with worldclass expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into chuchching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy. Shopify.com/happy. All right, local venue recycling or local venue flipping. You're like, "What in the world is this?" This is literally finding like garages, barns, backyards, uh pools, beautiful pools, empty stores. Yep. uh even homes like ours uh or spaces like you can go on pure space and find all these spaces or even businesses are in closed hours like yoga studios or classrooms, right? They're all closed maybe from 7:00 on or something and securing these venues, right? Getting a list of these venues and then customizing them and matchmaking them to people that have popup events, uh people that have anniversaries or birthday parties, people that have product launches, even just meetings. So, I'll give you a real example. And by the way, so I should be more clear. On one side, you're finding these event spaces and kind of tweaking them, setting them up, cleaning them, and then on the other side, you're finding the clients, and you're getting paid to be the matchmaker. Does that make sense? So, a lot of these are available on perspace.com, but no one's out there actively matchmaking people like us that have a meeting or I've got this anniversary, I've got this whatever, matchmaking us to the perfect space and then doing everything turnkey, right? So, here's an example. Um, I went to the Pendry, babe. you know where it is in Newport here and uh our events manager set us up with the Pendre's events manager to scope it out for our next uh elite mastermind. So, she's showing me around all the place and she said, you know, here's a regular room. Here's a suite and here's one of our um oh, what do they call these? Hospitality suites. And I said, "This thing's awesome. It's huge. Like, it's incredible." And I said, "How often are these rented?" She's like, "Oh my gosh, all the time." Uh and I said, "How much are they?" You know, I thought it was going to be several thousand dollars a day. She's like, "Really? They average like 750 to 1250 a day. Now there was a giant conference room table. There was a kitchenet. There was another sitting area. There was a desk area. There was a It's beautiful. So you could host a big meeting. You could host a big birthday. You could whatever there. Yeah. And so right away I thought, "Oh my god, people probably rent this for the 750 bucks to,250 bucks for a day." Then they tell their client, "Oh, I've got the perfect venue. It's beautiful. It's at the Pendry. You get these services with it. I'll book it for you. I'll pay for it. All you do is pay me the package for arranging it all. And they probably resell it for $5,000 to be there for the day curating it. Yep. Because you really do need someone. You know, Chris and I do a lot of these high-end services. We'll do, you know, two-day in-person mastermind type things, all day strategy sessions. And when we're in that, we absolutely need somebody to be curating the whole thing. I mean, we do have team, but if you don't have a team, who's going to make sure that everything looks perfect, that your the stuff that you want to eat is there, that the presentation of the juices and all of the things that you really want to impress people with and make them feel like they're having an upscale luxury experience, who's going to do all that? Who's going to, you know, wait on them and make sure that they're all taken care of? You have to have those people. And they're hard to find. Yep. Give you another example. Uh friends of ours were here and they're like, "Oh, we want to start doing these retreats." And I was like, "Oh my god, use our house like twice a year. We wouldn't care. Like have the retreat right here. It's a backyard overlooking the whole ocean." And it's that exact. Now, obviously, it's not an invitation for all you guys to come use our house. But what it is is look, there are people's homes that if you're like, "Hey, could I use this for $5,000 for the for the evening or the afternoon? I'm hosting a retreat." And then you play arbitrage. You sell 20 people a $1,000 ticket for your retreat and you paid $5,000 for the beautiful, you know, house and backyard. You just made $15,000. So really, this is a play of playing arbitrage on spaces that are either cheap or not being used and then matchmaking them to other people. Big big business. It's crazy. I've paid for friends homes for photo shoots. Yep. And like I feel weird asking, but I'm like, "Hey, do you want to be out of your house for an afternoon and me pay you x amount of dollars, which is usually fairly decent because renting a home on Pure Space is crazy expensive usually for the type of home that I need for content shoots." And so being someone who maybe does this, maybe you get together some companies that you know need these services and you go out and you find people who you could do that for. Yep. Yep. So our next category, this is kind of in the same vein, only you are the person putting on the event. So here's a new trend, micro retreat organizers. Now, retreats have been around forever, right? This is nothing new. Uh, you know, hey, I rented out this place in Bali and I'm selling 20 spots. Hey, I'm bringing everyone to Costa Rica and I'm selling 15 spots. Or hey, we're all going to, you know, Newport Beach and I'm selling 25 spots. That's been around forever. That's not new. Micro retreats though are becoming more popular. And I saw it just the other day. Not going to say who, but this great business coach had only four people in a conference room, but like a really cool one with great personality. They spent a day or two going through doing this micro business retreat and that's how she pitched it. And it was four people times I think it was 7,500 bucks, right? So right there, that's $30,000 for two days of her time and only had to find four people, not 20, not 40, not Right. And so anyone with a small audience can do this. And people love the more uh hands-on, more intimate thing. Now, it's kind of a volume play. If you're not doing 20, 30 people at a time, you got to make up for that by doing the micro retreats a little bit more often. But I love how these pencil out. So, let's say it was uh four clients for $2,500 a pop. And I don't care if this is a yoga retreat, a fitness retreat, a relationship retreat, a business retreat, like wellness, anything, you know, cooking, putting people's lives together, organizing. Yep. Totally. So, four people, 2500, that's $10,000 for a day or two days uh or three days max of putting them through whatever exercises are related to that retreat. So, you don't need expensive venues for this. We just talked about all the places that you can find venues for this. This is where some of those local venues uh that we talked about before can come in like really handy. You just need to find a venue whether it's in your town or somewhere else where you start to host it over and over and over again so it becomes turnkey. And so four people 2500 bucks pop that's $10,000. Now if you do that four times a year once a quarter that's an extra $40,000 a year that's an extra 3500 bucks a month for your family budget. I've actually been seeing this in small towns, like women doing retreats where there's not retreats, you guys. So, picture, you know, smaller town, rural Wisconsin, where they either rent a house or they rent a space and people are together for a day or two and they're just charging maybe maybe they're just charging $250 or $500. Like, I really need you to think in terms of what your area might allow, but also if your area doesn't have it, that's not a reason to say this won't go over. In fact, that might be the exact reason that if you don't give up, you might start being the most popular person around there. Well, I'm going to take what you said and take it a step further because you're spot on. It's becoming way more popular to attend micro retreats than to go to these great big ones because they're overplayed and they're not profitable. Every time someone in one of our masterminds or I coach them, whatever, they're like, "I'm scaling my retreat. I'm scaling my retreat. I want to do it bigger, bigger, bigger." When you scale retreats, they lose profitability. The cost goes up. Yep. And it gets harder and harder to fill. So, it's not a good business model to do great big retreats. It just doesn't pencil. The great business model is what if you cranked one of these out every single month. So, what if and what if you skip two months, right? The holidays. 10 months times four people at 2500 bucks a pop. It's a hundred grand to just do these 10 micro retreats. It's so easy to fill four people at a time. And that is a awesome. It's something you could totally do part-time for six figures. If you're like, "Okay, but then why do the some of these people have these massive events?" Those are people who actually use the event as a lead genen lead magnet into something else they are selling. So when you see really large events, they typically have a very high-end experience or course that they are consistently selling into a really high-end coaching and they're sales ninjas, you guys. Absolute ninjas. And they use that, you know, large audience together to get people in. Yeah. When you start playing with the numbers on micro retreats, they get real sexy real quick. Okay. Uh let's do one or two more. You want to? Yeah. Let's go. All right. Here's here's another idea. I got a local adventure or experienced designer. I'm obsessed with this. Right. Anyone can do it. Still fairly new in Newport. And I was like, I want to go on dates with you. I want them to be fun and I want them to be like experiences, but I don't have the effing time to plan it that together. Nope. Like I just I literally don't. And I know there's so much here that I'm missing out on. I don't have time to join the things, get on the newsletters, like read them, stay on top of what's happening this weekend. Like I want to talk to someone and I want them to say, "Okay, I planned your date day Saturday. Here's your agenda. Here's where you're going. I booked you this special table. I booked you this like guide in the museum or whatever." Like this is this is literally what I want. A great example of how big this can get is visit Newport Beach. So babe, get this. Remember I just said I went to the Pendry last week and I was checking out the space for the mastermind, right? Uh well towards the end of the pitch that they're giving me, you know, hey, here's why you got a hosta here. She said, "Oh, and we've got something really cool for you. Visit Newport Beach has thrown in $2,000 credit for any kind of group anything you want them to organize for your group." Oh my god. Amazing. Right. Well, one, amazing, but two, I'm like, right away, you know, my brain, I was like, "Oh, those smart sons of They're just trying to get us to use Visit Newport Beach." Right. Like, yeah. And I'm like, "Let me use it." Exactly. Yeah. You just fell for it. I saw your face light up. And so, the point is, this is easy to market. All you do is you get a local Instagram page. You make it fun, sexy, and awesome and informational about your area. People share it. You also double down on Facebook marketplace uh sharing and selling some of the experiences. And uh you anyone can design anything. You get to design ebike tour. You can design, you know, little beach pop-ups. You can design, you know, if you live where there's fields like a beautiful little barn popup experience, dinner experience. It's endless. All you got to do is learn your area, learn cool things, and become a local adventure or designer experience designer. And it's not just for tourists, right? It's for locals, it's for friend groups, it's for couples, it's for anniversaries, it's for birthdays. It's for everything. So, you'll have more business than you know what to do with. Your marketing pitch could just be like, are you sick of boring date days? Are you, you know, are you and your friends always looking for something to do? Are you always the planner? or nobody in your group is a planner, so you guys end up sitting around staring at each other drinking again or whatever. Or you always end up in the same place but don't really know your town. There's so many ways to market that. And then you guys, if I was doing this business, which sounds super fun to me, I would absolutely try to figure out how to get some marketing dollars to give some local influencers a free magical freaking date day. Like I would be looking up who the local influencers are, they tend to hashtag everything or go on your explore page and look under your area like or they go to really trendy places. So for me to find every single Newport Beach influencer, I'm not even kidding. All I have to do is go and look at who tagged the location of the Restoration Hardware restaurant. Yep. The new one here. I'm not you that I have followed probably 30 women that I'm actively trying to go to lunch with because I'm like they're doing big things or cool things like I want to get to know them. And so what I would do is I would reach out to them if I was starting this business and I would say hey I'm starting this business. I would love to gift you the most amazing date for either you and your, you know, you and a friend or you and your partner. Yep. And I would say the only thing I ask is that I can either market some of it or you guys take some footage while you're on these things and I can market it on my page and I could get a testimonial. Yep. Exactly. This is low overhead because you're not paying for anything other than you're getting paid for the curation of the list of things to do. You're getting paid for the curation of the Okay, meet me here. I'll get you guys set up with the bikes. So, you're just being paid for your time and expertise. You're being paid handsomely for it. And obviously these are things that as you get into this business, you're trying to get the better tables. People start to learn. You get a relationship with certain restaurants. You get a relationship with these certain things that you're always sending people on. You find really cool experiences. And of course, you have to book way far out for these things. So, you do have to do some preparation. Um, but this is such a cool idea. All right, let's do one more. The hardest part about starting a business is often getting started. Build your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Starting your business should be simple. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered Agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping businesses launch and grow for nearly 30 years. If you want to build your business while keeping your personal information secure, Northwest is the partner you need. In just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, they'll form your business, create a custom website, and set up your local presence wherever you need it. Form your business for just $39 plus state fees. Backed by real business experts with decades of experience. Protect your identity and keep your home address private by using Northwest Address on your information documents. Don't wait. Protect your privacy. Build your brand and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/earn and start building something amazing. Get more with northwestregistered agent at northwestregisteredagent.com/earn. Okay, if you're like me and your inbox is stressing you out and you need to spend less time there and more time in your business actually moving the needle, bringing money in, I'm about to change your life. Notion Mail is the inbox that thinks like you. Automated, personalized, and flexible to finally work the way you work with AI that learns what matters to you. It can organize your inbox, label messages, draft replies, and even schedule meetings. No manual sorting required, you guys. It has AI organized inbox. You can tell notion AI what's important to you and it's going to automatically label them and sort them so that they arrive in the way that you want. Custom views for focus. Split your inbox into custom views like topics, urgencies, senders, or what you want to do to stay distractionfree from those emails that you don't want to give your attention to. You can fly through emails with something called snippets. It's a one-click email template where you can do different intros. You can do follow-ups. This is perfect for my podcast, you guys, because I get over 30 inquiries in my inbox a day. So, I can automate all of that. It can even include attachments and scheduling links. You can write beautiful emails faster. Get Notion mail for free right now at notion.com/earn. And try the inbox that thinks like you. That's all lowercase letters. notion.com to get notion mail for free right now. When you use our link, you're supporting our show, you guys. Notion.com. Okay, this thing is actually dragged down a little bit, but it's freaking awesome. I love talking about this stuff that business. All right, let's start it. It's not like we're not busy. Okay, last one. Affiliate sales. And this is something that So, I just talked to a super duper duper famous person. I can't say who it is that you guys all know. and he was talking about how he gave another very famous person this idea to change their business model to a couple tier affiliate model and their business took off and became valued at more than a billion dollars. And this is par for the course you guys. Every product, everything, everyone is becoming an affiliate model now. It's the most efficient means of advertising for a company. So instead of going out running ads and all that stuff, you're only paying people for spreading word of mouth when that creates a sale. So from a company standpoint, people love affiliate sales. But from a participant standpoint, you at home wanting to make some money, what I'm watching women do on Tik Tok shop, just finding people's favorite products and going live and selling. I can name 20 or 30 people that I know that are making 10 grand a month selling other people's project products after their kids go to bed uh first thing in the morning, middle of the day when the kids are at school. It's freaking awesome. Look, you want to really do this? You like you need to be serious about it and you can absolutely make really really good money, you guys. Like tens of thousands of dollars, if not more than that, a month with some of these people who have become experts in it. So all it is is a learning curve. Don't get stressed out. You can literally learn how to sell on Tik Tok. You could learn how to sell on Instagram. You can learn how to sell on all the platforms. You can have a like to know it page. But what I want to share is what a lot of women are doing is they're kind of turning their uh everyday into QVC essentially if you guys remember the home shopping network. And what they do is they find brands that they love or they feel like they could talk about for hours and they literally go on and sell for these brands. So what they do is they kind of take a room in their house and they turn it into a little bit of a studio. Just one wall with lighting. It's so easy, you guys. I literally invested about, let me see, in total, I invested about $1,000 in some paneling for my walls, some beautiful curtains, a bunch of lighting, and a an awesome chair, or you could do like a standing desk, whatever you're going to sell at. And all you have to do is literally find these products and just go on and learn how to talk about them, learn how to highlight them, have great lighting, have a cute background, make this a thing. like give it a shot. I think it's where the future is. It's already here. It's already here. People are making so much money and I can tell you that it's real because I um with Glossy amble able to go into all of these platforms who are pitching me right now for um UGC and content creation and selling my product and I can go on and see what these different affiliates are making. Some of these affiliates have made hundreds of thousands of dollars in a year off of all of these different products, you guys. So, what they do is they just go on and they sell a ton of different products. And I can actually see who they are. Now, you're probably like, "Oh my gosh, you know, these are these great influencers and these people who are so good with content or who have followings." No, they're just, yes, they are great with content, but they don't have huge followings. They've just become really good at learning how to highlight companies and make amazing videos. And that's how they're getting paid is also selling the product and also making amazing videos. And what I love is the algorithm is finally your favorite. So you might be hearing this like I don't have a big Instagram following or I don't have a big Facebook whatever, right? That's what makes this great is now Tik Tok is changing everything. It's no longer do you have a big following. And if you do, great. Affiliate marketing is awesome. But even if you don't know, when you go live on Tik Tok shop, you get fed to everybody scrolling. So you could have 10 freaking followers and you do a good job selling product on there, it pushes you out further and further to all the people you don't know and then they buy your stuff. Same thing with just posting on Tik Tok shop. So the number of things I bought on there just scrolling. So not even live, right? Just scrolling and it's someone's uh little Tik Tok about, you know, this emergency flashlight or these walkie-talkies or whatever. They're nobody that I don't mean nobody rude. I mean, they don't have a following. I don't follow them. But I still bought cuz they did a cool job demonstrating it in 30 or 60 seconds. I was like, I need that for the end of the world. Well, I need that for the end of the world, too. And I bought them the number of things I bought on Tik Tok shop from people I don't know. I know. That's funny. More than I more than I like to say because they just did a good job of showing the product. We have no idea who they are. It looks like some 27y old guy, you know, in the other side of the world talking about something, talking about how this drone can fly ahead of you and get good content for you. And we bought it and we bought it. I'm like, who the hell is this guy? I have no idea. I've never seen him again since, but you know, we bought his stuff. Oh, I love it. So guys, you know, I don't know if that was what, six, seven, eight, nine ideas, whatever that was. I hope it got your brains thinking differently than the traditional ways of making money. If you're already an entrepreneur, I hope it got you thinking, "Oh, here's a pivot or here's a way I could be doing things differently or here's a way I could distribute my products." And Lori and I are idea machines. Lori is a marketing machine. And this is the kind of stuff that we talk about in depth in detail for you in our mentor collective mastermind. So, like I mentioned at the beginning of this thing, we only have a few days left of founder pricing. It's going to go up by thousands of dollars afterwards. Don't let that intimidate you because it's priced, like I said, you could get started for 850 bucksish for the first 30 days. And if you don't like it, you get all your money back. So, go check it out. It's literally questions on demand, coaches on demand. Lori and I and the coaches answering your business questions every single week, office hours, free resources. It's the greatest, most supportive mastermind on these titles this planet. To be fun. Like, if you enjoyed this conversation, that's how it feels. It's hopeful. It's real. we're in touch with what's actually working and what people are doing in helping you get ahead of the curve. It's just fun. Like, why do it alone anymore when you can have the most supportive people on your side helping you tweak and figure out what's next? Yep. All right, guys. So, go to loryhearter.com/metor or chrisarter.me/metor. They both go to the same place. loryhearter.com/metor. Grab one of the seats before the price goes up. We can't wait to have these fun conversations with you and make you lots lots of money. All right, we'll see you next week everyone. Bye-bye.