Hey everybody. I want to chat with you today about a great topic. And the more that I apply this topic into my life, the more I notice that it flows and I really just don't hold a lot of resentment and anger whatsoever anymore. And that is to infuse every situation with compassion. It is absolutely vital that we start to look at different situations and people in our life with a lot of compassion. What does that mean? You know, so many times we um are just going about our daily life. We're driving in traffic. We're standing in line at the grocery store and we're just looking at people as obstacles, as objects. They're not even human to us anymore. You know, we get frustrated when we're in traffic because someone's driving slow. Or we get frustrated at the grocery store standing in line because the line is too long. And we don't even see people for what they are anymore. We forget that they have families in this life and this past and these circumstances. And we completely pull all of that out of it and we just get frustrated and angry at at situations. and a way that we can really um that we can really move through our life with more ease and really start to see people for what they are and connect and just feel more connected in general in life is to start to see people with compassion. So instead of just sitting in traffic and beeping that horn at that person who's not going fast enough or perhaps is being hesitant when you just want to be the aggress, you know, be really aggressive and get to where you need to go. um really think about what could be going on in that in that person's head. Maybe they had a child in a car accident or maybe they were just in a car accident and they're fearful of driving or maybe they have anxiety. You know, there's so many different things that could be going on that we need to just remember. And what happens is you immediately go to a place of calm and you can kind of just sit back and and chill a little bit once you realize, wow, this person is not just trying to tick me off. this person is not just trying to go super slow for the day and irritate me. So sit back, walk a mile in their shoes, really think about it, really make them human, feel compassion, and what it does is it just kind of gives you a sense of calm. So it's not always about, you know, oh, I need to feel compassionate for everybody because, you know, that's a lot of emotion to be expressing. But what we do need to do is if we can just walk a mile in their shoes, we can really let ourselves off the hook. We can really stop living with so much resentment. We can stop living with so much anger. And we can see humans for what they really are. And we can connect with them and love them and be more nurturing, be more caring. And what would happen if everybody moved through their day like that? What would happen if every single person would hold a door, would smile, would um, you know, make friendly conversation in line, would make a connection. How many people are we meant to connect with every single day that we just bypass and fly by? Um, you know, it's really important stuff to think about that they're not just obstacles. They're human beings. You know, we're we're literally sharing this planet and it's vital to infuse our life with more compassion. So today, what I want you to do is just really look at those moments when you get irritated or frustrated with people and just think about where they could be coming from and take five more seconds to just be compassionate towards that person. Maybe show them a little bit of love. Maybe give them a smile. Give them a head nod. Say, "How you doing today?" And just see what a difference that can make, not only in your life, but the lives of others because our footprint is left every single day on this planet. And what kind of footprint do you want to leave? It's really something to think about. So, I hope that that um makes your life a lot better, easier, you can flow more. I know that it does for me and it's a constant reminder because it's very easy to slip back into the old pattern. So, just remember, infuse, infuse, infuse your life with compassion. And I really do think that um you'll notice that you'll just start enjoying your life more. So, let me know what you think. I would love if you would leave me comments or share this if you absolutely love this tip. And uh stay tuned to busygirl.tv TV for more great tips, info, recipes, all that fun stuff. So, leave me your comments. Come on. Bye-bye.