This podcast is sponsored by the following sponsors: The Real Real. Buy and sell luxury clothing, bags, and more on The Real Real. Get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. Shopify, the e-commerce platform I trust for Glossy. Sign up for your $1 a month trial period at shopify.com/happy. Brevo. Meet the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform for your business. Get started free or save 50% for three months with code happy at brevo.com/happy. Airbnb. Start making money by listing your home on Airbnb with the support of an experienced co-host. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/host. Your dream business still comes with deadlines. It still comes with massive rejection. It still comes with days that you want to hide. So, stop chasing what you think looks perfect and something that you think you want on the outside that someone else has and start building your resilience muscle. Start staying in the problem because the people who can stay in the problem are going to be the ones who get to the finish line. Welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. It's time for another quickie because there's always time to fit in inspiration and some of you don't know how good you could be feeling right now if you just drank more water and took some supplements. That's all I'm saying. And I totally get it because I have a health and fitness background for so many years and my cabinets were so chucked full of so many things that I would get so overwhelmed that not too long ago, I remember standing in front of my supplement cabinet and being like, I feel like I have wasted so much money. How about I just start taking like 10 different pills a day until these are gone? And I was like, Lori, that doesn't even make sense. And why are you taking them? and do you even know what they are and what you need right now? And the answer was no. So I actually ended up throwing out most all of them. And this is around the time that I was creating Glossy because I just wanted to open my cabinet and say if I just did this one thing today for myself that it would be enough for me. And so that is what I did. I wanted to feel lighter. I wanted to look better. And I wanted to feel amazing. Like I just wanted to know that I was doing good things for my body. And that is when we created Glossy Skin and Gut. And I'm telling you, this is packed full of the most incredible probiotics, magnesium, hyaluronic acid, vitamin C, zinc, prickly pear, 72 trace minerals, sea salt, coconut water powder. You guys, what are we waiting for? For real. I really want you to try it. Like I I was not going to put my name on anything that wasn't going to make an impact in your life and make it easy because let me tell you, I can hardly fit anything else into my life. I needed ease. Like it's 8:00 p.m. right now and I'm recording this. Like I am lucky if I get anything in right now. So go to getlosy.com and use code happy for 25% off and tell me about it. Tell me how you feel after 30 days because anything good takes time and you know this. So let's talk about what we're going to talk about. So today I want to ask you or have you consider this that before you quit I want you to really think about what we're going to talk about because I have been in multiple businesses and there has not been one business despite a lot of them being my absolute dream that I was marking off that I have not wanted to quit. Whether it was when I decided to do the bucket list thing of writing a book that was like a dream come true. I wanted to quit so many times. I was like, "Screw this. What am I even doing?" Like, "What am I thinking? Like, take this money back. I don't even care that I got this this money from you. In fact, I don't have all of it yet, right? Because it comes in down payments. I just wanted to give it back and quit." when I was doing fitness competitions and it starts getting really really hard on week four or four weeks out from your competition, all of a sudden it's like you start looking at the plan and it turns into absolute hell and everything before that you're like was a cakewalk even though that felt hard too but then week you know four weeks leading up to it comes and you're like what am I doing like this is a disaster I hate my life this is hard like this is asking a new level from me. I wanted to quit. Every single time when I've started any businesses or launched anything, when you first start marketing it, you're like, "Where the f is everybody?" Like, "Why is nobody on my weight list? What is going on? Who's even going to buy?" You open the cart and maybe it's slow. Like, you want to quit? When you first start social media and maybe it's the first year and it's just not catching on. Maybe it's year two, it's still not really catching. Maybe you're getting a little momentum, but you're watching other people just explode around you. Or you're paying attention to everyone with huge followings who've been doing it even longer, and you're like, I want to quit. I suck. This is never going to work for me. You guys, I have times right now where I want to quit so bad. You have no idea. Like, I fantasize about it. Except I have something in me now that understands that you cannot quit. Like there is a part of me that actually will not let me or allow me to quit. And I want to share that with you because I don't believe that it's who I am. I believe that it's what I've really processed and what I've learned about the process. So, I'm going to tell you that what I believe is that starting over is not going to fix the problem you're facing right now. And what if I told you that the next dream and the next project and your next pivot comes with the exact same resistance, fear, doubt, everything that you are feeling today when you want to quit. So let's talk about why quitting might feel easier, but staying in solving the problem is going to be the breakthrough. So, if you're the kind of person who dreams big like I am, your problems literally are they're not going to go away. They're only going to evolve. And so, as your problems evolve, this gets to be your opportunity to evolve. Because if you did not have problems that evolve, guess what? No growth for you. So, stop thinking that the next thing is your escape. I know it can feel like some sick twisted fantasy to think like what if I could just wake up tomorrow and it all went away and this never happened and I went and got a normal job or went and you know started something new. What if I went down this other path? What if I could erase it all? What if I could erase the debt with it? You have to solve the hard stuff right here and right now in order to go further in anything. If you can't solve it here, you're not solving it in the next thing. So, I have a framework, the stay and solve method, guys. The first thing that you have to do is to recognize that this is a pattern for you. Quitting feels good short term because it relieves pain immediately. But if you're going to zoom out, this is not your first time wanting to quit something. Most likely, it's probably a familiar cycle. So if you recognize this pattern, you're going to realize that your resistance follows you wherever you go. And that's the good thing. So some of you are like, "Oh god, this is me." It's actually good that you're recognizing a pattern that you want to quit. And so this was my first realization was, wow, it's been really tough for me to stick to something because I always like want to relieve that pain and just say, you know what, screw it. Let's go find something else. Because starting always feels fun. It's the middle that is pretty miserable at times. It's the middle that we're avoiding. It's the messy middle that we want to get out of. But guess what? you don't get to go to the end without really understanding, learning, and growing from the middle. So, we never feel like we have completion because we're so addicted to that starting point and the idea point and we get really uncomfortable in the middle point. And if we can have this full-on realization that I truly have a pattern of trying to relieve this pain by wanting to start over and quit, so we can realize that that resistance follows us everywhere. And whether you think about, you know, having a new job, a new business, or a new partner, you're going to get the same stuck version of you unless you do the work where you are. So number two, you have to ask better questions. Instead of just saying, should I quit? Right? Like, should I quit this? Like, should I call it a day? Ask, what am I trying to avoid by quitting? I want you to look back on everything that you've ever wanted to quit and say, what was I trying to avoid by quitting? Was it I don't know how to do it, so every time you quit, it's because you believe that you don't have a skill set for doing the thing. Is it because you have a really hard time asking people to help you and that's something that you're facing? Is it because you have a really hard time with your focus and sitting down to learn a new skill? What is it you're trying to avoid? And that's the exact thing that's going to free you up and give you everything that you want. I know for me, I struggle so much with learning certain new things, especially tech stuff or right now I'm really trying to get better with social media. And let me tell you, I have been talking about this on my podcast for so long. Like, watch me get better with social media. Like, I'll tell you, I've been more consistent. Have I gotten better? I don't really know. Like, it's hard to measure your progress. But what I am willing to do is never stop putting in the reps. But it's really uncomfortable. It's not comfortable being like, "Well, that one kind of bombed. Well, that one's not doing better. Well, I'm kind of staying the same. Well, somehow I'm going backwards right now. Oh, the algorithm seems to have changed again. Oh, look at that. I've been posting more than I ever have in my life, and I'm actually losing followers right now." You guys, this is literally the story of sitting in it until you solve it. And the only way to do it is to really understand what pain you're trying to avoid and to face off with yourself and confront it and learn it and don't quit. Don't get out of it until you understand it. So ask the question, what am I trying to avoid by quitting? And then if I solved this exact challenge, how would I feel about staying? If I solved this exact challenge, how would I feel about staying? I'm so excited to share that this podcast is sponsored by The Real Real, the best place to shop authenticated luxury bags, clothing, watches, and so much more. Personally, I love finding unique, elevated pieces that feel like me. And The Real Real is one of my favorite places to discover them. Whether I'm looking for a one-of-a-kind Zimmerman dress or a classic YSL bag, I know I'm getting something super special and I'm getting it at a great value. The Real Real is attainable luxury that upgrades your personal style. With up to 90% off retail, you can finally have the pieces you've been dreaming of from brands like Gucci, Fendi, Prada, and so many others. Unlike other resale sites, everything The Real Real sells is authenticated in person by luxury and fashion experts. The Real Real is the go-to place for your next special piece. Need a dress for a fancy wedding? The perfect vacation sandals? Ready to invest in a new bag to add to your collection? Find exactly what you're looking for that no one else has at The Real Real. The Real Real is the world's largest and most trusted resource for authenticated luxury resale. With thousands of new arrivals daily, no one does resale like The Real Real. And now get $25 off your first purchase when you go to thererereal.com/happy. That's the realreal.com/happy to get your $25 off. Start shopping now at the realreal.com/happy. The hardest part about starting a business is often getting started. Build your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Starting your business should be simple. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered agent. your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Northwest Registered agent has been helping businesses launch and grow for nearly 30 years. If you want to build your business while keeping your personal information secure, Northwest is the partner you need. In just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, they'll form your business, create a custom website, and set up your local presence wherever you need it. Form your business for just $39 plus state fees. Backed by real business experts with decades of experience. Protect your identity and keep your home address private by using Northwest Address on your information documents. Don't wait. Protect your privacy. Build your brand and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered agent at northwestregisteredagent.com. Right now, there's some really hard stuff in my company. Having a physical product is a new thing for me. And there are some new really large challenges with having a physical product that you just you don't even understand until you're in it. And so for me, there's so many moments where I'm like, "Wow, I didn't realize how amazing having digital products was." like not having, you know, inventory and massively large PO orders and how much that costs, the hundreds of thousands of dollars that that costs and takes out of your bank account and you have to really learn how to manage that. And I'm like, wow, I had no idea. I mean, being in digital courses and having events felt so much easier than this. And I'm watching myself say, wow, like it's it's way easier just to go back and do all those things and focus on that. But what I want is to have a products company and all that goes with it. So if I ask myself if I solve this exact challenge of really understanding this company and really understanding how to acquire new customers and you know have different people sharing on UGC and really getting this brand out into the world, how would I feel about staying? The answer is I freaking love it. I would never leaving. I would never want to leave. I'd want this forever. This is my dream. I'm like, "This is absolutely what I want." So, of course, then I can say to myself, "Well, then you're going to sit and stay in this until you solve this until this feels like you understand this like the back of your hand." Like, I want to be able to live, eat, breathe, sleep, and rattle off and explain to anyone and everyone exactly the ins and outs of having a product company. And so, I'm not going to quit that until I get it. And guess what? I'm not going to understand that overnight. Like instead of so many people who are like, "My god, it's hard. I can't even like harder than you can fathom." Like this is just, you know, something that I would say to myself. And instead of quitting that, I'm never going to quit because I know that I would end up with the exact same problems again because I'd want to start all over again because guess what? At the end of the day, I want this. And so that always helps me, too. So ask yourself, if I solved this exact challenge, how would I feel about staying in this problem, in this business, in this thing that I'm doing right now, right? Because when you stop avoiding the hard thing, you unlock the dream life that you actually want. You unlock the dream business that you actually want. So step three is remember what doesn't change. So even if you started over, you still have to face doubt, you still have to sell this new idea, right? Because in your old idea, you're kind of like, "Oh my god, I have to sell this over and over again. How do I get reexited about an old idea?" You just do. You literally just have to always work to get reexited and re-intouch with what the thing is doing and how freaking lucky we are to be able to get to do it. So remember what doesn't change is that we still have to face our doubt in whatever we do. No matter what we start, you still have to sell that idea over and over again. Whether it's an old idea or a new idea, you still have to manage your fear. You have to figure out your burnout. You still have to get feedback. You still have to figure out your finances. You still have to get rejected. The packaging changes, but the problems stay the same. And your dream business still comes with deadlines. It still comes with massive rejection. It still comes with days that you want to hide. So, stop chasing what you think looks perfect and something that you think you want on the outside that someone else has and start building your resilience muscle. start staying in the problem because the people who can stay in the problem are going to be the ones who get to the finish line and get to experience this bigger, more powerful, more empowered version. So number four is take micro moves forward. All you have to do is make one decision today that solves this version of the problem. You have to prove to yourself that you can stick through the discomfort and come out stronger. So momentum is never built by escaping. It's built by enduring, like getting through the thing, right? Strength is never built by putting down a heavy weight. It's built by holding it longer. It's built by going heavier. So, you know, one of the the best ways to build muscle is called time under tension. It's the amount of time that you put the muscle under tension. And it's really interesting because you could even have a somewhat light weight and instead of doing, you know, 20 reps, what you can do is do 10 reps really really slow. That's going to really burn and it's that's going to even burn more than going fast. But what that's going to do is that is going to build a much stronger, more durable muscle, a muscle that can really undergo a lot of tension for long periods of time. And that's the muscle that we want to build. And that's what these bigger problems bring, right? the longer time that you can kind of learn how to navigate staying under that tension and solving the problems because these are not quick. These are big problems. Your big dream is big because it comes with big problems. So the longer that you can stay under tension and understand that that is what is turning you into the entrepreneur who can handle the bigger business because let me tell you I used to dream of a huge business or waking up to a 100,000 more followers and now it's crazy right now it's like a million we we'd love to wake up to a million more followers. If you cannot solve the problems where you're at right now, you will never be able to handle what comes with that type of blessing. And so I really believe that God knows all the timing. Like we're not getting blessed with something like that because we can't solve the problems of where we're at right now. We haven't become the people who could do that yet. We haven't become the people who really understand this theory of solving the problems that are in front of us are the path. They are the exact path to the people and the businesses that we want, to the relationships in our lives that we want. The problems with our friends right now is the path to a better relationship or to better relationships. Maybe it's lack of boundaries. Maybe it's that you're not willing to ask more people to get together. Maybe you're not willing to take the time to really invest in a relationship. There's a reason right now in your life that you don't have what you want and a problem is sitting right in front of you waiting to get solved. in order for you to become the person who can have everything that you want in that thing. But if we're not willing to solve today's problems, we're never going to get to tomorrow's blessings. So you guys, I hope that this helps. I hope that you look at the problems right now in your life and say thank you to them. I know that's real effed up, but that's how this is going to work. Look at them right now and say thank you. Thank you for being here because they are the path. Like I know that if I just focus on this right here and sit in this and solve this thing right here, right now that this is going to be the path. And you guys, it's the small things like that. It's the one small problem that you can't seem to get through that you just sit your ass down and you dedicate one entire day to or two entire days or one entire week and you say, "I am not doing anything else this week except for this one thing." Focus. The problem is we're lacking focus on the problem as well. So start finding that main problem and giving all your focus to it one week at a time. Find one problem, give it a week. Find one problem, give it a week. So I hope this helps. And you guys, if you know anyone that this could help, it is huge for our podcast if you would just hit the share button and send it to a friend. It's a really cool way just to send someone some love that you don't have to give them the advice. we can give it to him for him. So, I love you guys so much and until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.