When we're in our 20s and 30s, I'm just being so open and vulnerable. I think we dread getting older. I think we're so afraid of it. Despite what society says, despite what social media says, I want to be strong. I want to be doing things. I mean, I look at these centurions and I'm like, that's what I want. I'm actually in the same boat. I'm literally like, okay, I want to make sure I'm still skiing and playing pickle ball. I think it's important to really have that vision now and not being like, oh, I'm 80. I can't do that. Nicole, welcome to the podcast. I'm so excited to have you on. >> Thank you. >> You have had just such a beautiful career and created a career on something that I'm super passionate about and every year I get older, I'm a little more passionate about. And that is really celebrating women um in aging in such a beautiful way. And you know, we were just chatting and I'm like, when did we even come into each other's worlds? And you had said maybe 2017 or 2018. You have sent me some lipstick. >> Yes. >> And the titles of your lipstick are super empowering. Um tell just tell me that little story and then we'll we'll talk about the progress of everything you've done. >> Okay. Okay. So, it was when I was just getting into podcast and it was a really great time to like escape when I was walking my Frenchies and like take that time to really get some takeaways to be able to be inspired, whatever it was. And I landed on yours somehow and I just loved it and I loved just always tuning in hoping there was like a new one for like the walk and everything. And there was this one particular it was a couple of them I think in a series and I remember it was like a spring summer and you kept saying certain words like you were like you just have to figure it out and really that's how it is you know you figure it out and you move to the next step and then you said you know like well you know actually I can you know actually I can do this I'm like these are the names of my lipsticks I'm going to send it I never reached out to anyone before so I felt weird so I DM' you on Instagram and I said hi you say my the names of my lipsticks like I of this cosmetic company and I don't want any shout out. I don't want you. This is not about that at all. It's just that I connected with you from the podcast and I just wanted my lipsticks to basically have fun because you would say it all the time and it just made sense to me. So, I sent them to you and I just couldn't remember the year and that's really how I connected with with you from the podcast and I knew about you. >> I love this because I was like, did I follow her first or did she follow me? Because you guys, if you are not watching on camera, like you are so striking and it's not just about how you look. It is like your boldness and your energy. And I remember being like th this woman is like power, like just so powerful. I've always been drawn to super amazing, bold, powerful women because that's what I want to be. So, the more I live in my world, >> um, and just with your stunning silver hair and I believe at the time, like when I first started following you, you always had a red lip. >> Like, >> I feel like you always wore a red lip, which I feel like I want to try your lipstick on during this episode. I feel like I want a red lip during this. What should I try on? >> And the red lip is called confidence. >> Okay, I have Okay. Should I do confidence? >> If you like a red lip, >> I do. if you like. >> Or what should I put on? Nicole, tell me what I should put on. And I have I have paper towel here, so I can. >> Okay, good. Well, you're wearing black. So, and you have a fabulous wing liner right now. So, and you have more of like the nude eye, so you could do the red. I mean, it would just be really just very powerful and bold. We're going to try it. We're going to try it, everyone. So, my video friends are going to love this. Um, this is so pretty, by the way. Her packaging, you guys. If you're a package lover, which I am, aesthetics and just on your, you know, on your bathroom countertop. Okay, here we go. We're going full red, everyone. What do we think? It looks beautiful on you. I love it with the the black. And it's always hard to like, you know, swipe on a red because, you know, it's like if you make any mistake, you'll see it, but it looks great. Did I do Okay. >> Yeah, you did. >> I can't totally tell. And you can build it up if you want or you can make it more like a stain and then put a gloss on it if you want. But yeah, see it totally changed her look. >> Totally different. But I I actually love it. I think it looks great. >> It's nice because if you're if you're going for that look, especially when you're wearing like a black top and then you have it's a it's really like that's what you want to focus on. That's the color that you're popping instead of a nude lip. >> I feel like red like women want to do red but we're a little afraid of it. And like I've put on red so many times and now now I walk out of the house with it. But before I'm like whoa this is so bold. Like you feel you can feel like you're too much. But that's the energy I want to embody. And I think that I think with you like when you when I would see you I'm like wow that is like so every single day to walk around like that and just be so confident. It's like that type of energy for me. That's what I wanted to embody. Well, it's it, you know, it was hard because I, you know, everybody thinks that I have this gray hair and that I wanted to go gray. I didn't that was not part of the the whole program here. So, I had always dark hair. I mean, I had no problem with the dark hair. It's just that I went through all of that IVF for, you know, I went through five rounds in one year. So, I powered through that and my hair was exploding at the same time. And so, I was like, well, what like how what am I going to do? Should I be fighting with the doctors, flying all around the country trying to figure this out? The hair is literally not dying. It's exploding with the gray. I was like, well, what's the choice? Like, really, what's the choice? So, I was like, I'm done. I'm not going to fight. I can only fight with so many people with this whole process. And then with having a different hair color now, I always wanted to be blonde. >> So, I wasn't like, oh, this is going to be lighter. It'll be different. But, uh, I needed color because I was like, whoa, this is so different. And my eyebrows are black. And guess what? They're staying black. I mean, that's just what they are. And I would get so much hate for my eyebrows. I came on YouTube one time and I I had cut we had I had like a furry rug in my studio. And so I cut the the furry rug. I didn't realize that it would like all fall apart. Like I thought it would, you know, it would stay like, you know, this like wispy white fur. And I was like, "Everybody keeps telling me that my eyebrows should match my hair." Well, let's try that today. So, I literally took the fur and I placed it on my brows and I was I mean I look like Santa Claus and and then like didn't realize that it would be like all over my face the entire makeup tutorial, but I was like, "Is this what we want? Do we does this look good? Does this make people happy?" I was like, "Look how ridiculous this looks." I'm like, "You just have to accept people for what they're doing." Like, if that's what naturally happens, what So, I don't dye my hair, but I have to dye my eyebrows lighter. I just It's just so crazy sometimes. >> Yeah. Okay. So, let's let's go back there because you it it wasn't by choice that you woke up one day and you're like, you know what? I'm gonna embrace having gray hair because I believe you were around 39 when that happened. >> Yes. >> 39. >> I had the stripe. So, I had this this stripe here in my black hair. I never dyed. It would turn like orange and I was like, "Okay, what's what's better? Should I just leave it?" So, I left this stripe. My aunt has it also and I was like, "I'll just leave it." And you know, I thought to myself, you know, um I mean, I'm 49, but I don't know if too many of your audience members knows about like Sally, Josie, Raphael had those red glasses, you know, like everybody has their style. I thought, well, maybe it'll be my style. Like, I'll just have this stripe and we'll just call it a day and it'll be fine. >> And so I that was early 30s. And then I, you know, it just really I got tired of like the whole Dalmatian like I mean strangers would come up and be like, I love your hair. I'm like, oh, thanks. They're like, "You remind me of that. What's that movie with the Dalmatians?" I was like, I mean, it was coming. Every time someone said something about my hair, I was like, "I'm so over this." >> So that's early 30s. It was The Stripe. And then and then it just around 35, 36 is when it started to explode. Then I actually felt bad because I was like, "It's so white. Like, should I really be dying this? Like, let me just You're just wanting to do your own thing." And I can't keep up with the dye cuz it looked like I never dyed it when I did. >> And so it was really like 39 it was like we're done. >> Mhm. >> And then I just let it come out. >> Was that hard? Like mentally was it challenging at first? >> Yeah. >> What was it? >> It was hard. >> It was hard because here I am, you know, I got married at I think I was 36, so I'm older. And then, you know, it's all that pressure, especially being in a female. You know, I had my studio as an aesthetician and a professional makeup artist. I saw women on the >> You're like in the beauty industry and you're like it. >> Yes. I've been in the beauty industry since >> Well, my first job was with Lancome in 1996 as a freelance makeup artist. So, became an esthetician in 2000. So, I have, you know, my whole industry. It's like one woman after the other in my studio being like, you know, when you just get married. Oh, when are you going to have a baby? When are you going? Every day on the hour. And it was like, well, what's wrong? What was this? Have you done this? And it was like so much pressure. I was like, okay. Then being thrown into infertility, like I didn't expect that. Who expects that, right? So, I thought, okay, well, as an entrepreneur, if I work hard enough, if I do all the things, you know, you can, you know, you're going to get to your goal. like you but not in not in an infertility world. Not reproductive endocrinologists do not make babies in my opinion. They help with the process along but God is the one that makes babies. So if it's not in the cards, it's not in the cards. You know, you can't force it to you. I mean, I guess you could, but I didn't want to force things. I've done that before in my life. It didn't work out very well. So I thought, okay, I'm in the beauty industry. I'm on YouTube. I can't keep up with my schedule. It's a hot mess, but like who wants to come out and be like, "Hey, my life's a disaster. I'm just hanging on." But I'm gonna do a beautiful makeup tutorial today for you ladies. So, it was 2015 where I just was like I was so beaten down like physically, emotionally. I just said, "You know what?" So, I've been on YouTube since 2010. So, now we're five years into it. And I was like, I don't even know who's watching, but guess what? It's really a hot mess and it's challenging and I'm going through this. That's when I built my audience. >> When I was like, >> you just turned on the camera one day and did you just naturally start talking about something? Do you remember what your first kind of like video was? You know, I had someone that asked me in the comments somewhere along the line like h how did what was your gray hair journey? And I'm thinking um there was no journey. It was just black and white. It was like gray roots, black hair, and I was like, you know, the more uncomfortable people were when they saw me, the more I liked it because I thought, >> I'm the one wearing it. Like, why are they upset? It was so strange to me. People really had like these very strong feelings. My husband said to me, >> you know, if if you don't love it, dye it. Like, you're not you're not stuck with it. See what happens. See if you like it. You know, it's it's fine. He didn't care. He was like, whatever you want to do. So, I thought, well, at least he's not pressuring me. That was really nice, you know. So, >> um I did do a video about my gray hair journey, and it was like I just stopped dying. That's the journey. Black and white. Here we go. >> And I had and I had to cut all my hair off to a bob because I wanted to make it look like I knew what I was doing. I didn't want to look like someone that was with, you know, I had the long layered hair. It was black and I didn't want to look like is she okay? Okay. Like, does she really understand that it's like it's never going to catch up? So, I went in and I just had it cut to the chic bob. And I left it that way. And the more gray it got, the the bigger and like more full. And it's just wild. And I like let it do its thing. I mean, I I try to tame it sometimes and then I think, you know what? I'm not I'm not going to because I don't feel like it should be restricted. It's doing its own thing. And I think it became very easy for me throughout the infertility whole struggle. I didn't become pregnant. I did I transferred seven babies. They were tested. They were PG PGS tested. And it's a a mental game to really a mental game. Not only physical, but when I turned it and and looked at it like my body is protecting me >> from not being able to get pregnant, like it's it's really working for me. And I accepted what was what was the reality. I went in to the last the last transfer with the nurse to, you know, to the pregnancy test and she couldn't even look at me, which I thought was weird cuz I thought >> it's not my first rodeo. Like this is really strange. Now we're we're treat you have you have to feel like a person. You never feel like a person going through this. You feel like you're a number. You feel like you're a statistic. you feel like. So when she she couldn't even look at me to tell me it was negative, I said, "Listen, I'm not that girl. I'm not going to do another seven rounds. I know girls that did that. They would do 11. They did 15 rounds. I'm not doing it. I did plenty. It didn't work. I'm done." Like I I I stopped my life for four years. That year it was 200 I want to say it's was 2017 or 2018. I wrote a book because I was like now I'm free. I felt like I got out of jail. I wrote a book. It came out in >> December of 2018. >> Neiman Marcus was my host where I did in the beauty department. So I was like back into my my world of beauty and feeling like you know it it all h it all happened for a reason. the whole hair thing and you know the infertility it's just what you take it's it's really what you do with it right because I didn't expect to go through that it was extremely difficult I met so many women all over the world through infertility was quite powerful I have to say and then what happened was is that I transferred it from all the women trying to have a child to all the women that were past that so my demographic changed to all of the women that I could help on a different level. So, it was really it was quite interesting like how how it all evolved and then you know celebrating being on YouTube for 15 years now. I mean it's like that to me I always look back and think oh my gosh when no one was watching I was still doing it because I loved it. I I loved it you know and I love teaching and I love talking about beauty and I could talk forever and it just was such a that was an outlet for me. So, it wasn't about, oh, who's watching? I want to be this YouTube star. It was like, this is what I've always done. I want to be able to share, and this is the way I felt like I could do that. >> I love that. I think, you know, whenever I I meet people who have been really successful just in that sort of media or online, it's like they truly just love talking. Like, they love talking about it. They would do it anyway. And I think, you know, the the power of you just turning on videos about things that you experienced and sharing your experience. I mean, we still know that that is one of the most that's one of the most powerful things that attracts people to what you're doing. And there's no question about why you have such a large audience is also you're sharing an experience that so many women felt alone in. And I mean, there's such a bigger conversation about it now, but honestly, even me getting into my early 40s, I'm like, people still aren't talking about it a lot and giving us a lot of like hope around it or something to look forward to or these are, you know, the things that you can do or you can still feel amazing. So, I love that you are like you're creating all the time. you're creating on YouTube, which I would love to chat about your series that you have that you started and was like, tell me about the series and just tell me about what you've seen happen throughout having it. >> Well, the series, which I named Fierce Aging, and why I did, I have no idea. I don't even know where it came from. I had women calling my studio all the time and I would pick up the phone and they'd be like, "I, you know, I love watching your YouTube videos, but you know, I'm in my 60s and you're in your 40s and I really want to see someone like my age." And I would get these all the time. And I was thinking, so one day someone called me when, you know, and I'm in between clients, like I'm doing brow waxes, I'm doing my permanent makeup, I'm doing like, you know, it's like these very short periods where I'm picking Oh, what? Okay. So, one day I was like, "Oh my gosh, honestly, I'm gonna do it so I can just say we did it and we don't have to have these phone calls anymore." So, I was thinking, "Okay, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to take the month of March and I'm going to take one of my clients. I'm going to represent 50s, 60s, 70s, and 80s." I was like, "This will be great. We'll do four weeks. Every week we'll have somebody. We'll give them inspiration. Everybody's going to be so different." And my mom was going to be my 70s. So I called her and I said, "Mom, doing the series, I want you for my 70s." And she was like, "No." I said, "Mom, what? I I don't have anybody else in their 70s. You got to do it." She go, "I don't feel comfortable." I said, "Mom, okay, great. But okay, like I understand like that's fine." And so I was like really bummed out. So I'm like going on with my day thinking to myself, "Well, how am I supposed to do this now?" So then she called back. She goes, "Okay, I'll do it." I thought about it and I was like, "Come to the studio now." Wow. Cuz I thought I cannot like I I don't want her to like lose like the the momentum. >> Exactly. Very smart. >> Yeah. Don't back out. So >> and it was so funny. She was so uncomfortable and she was so sweet to do it cuz she was like you could see she would be like like breathing and people picked up on it but it's like that's raw and real. This is not these are not this these ladies platform. They don't do this. They come up they're coming on a YouTube video 4K with no makeup on. I mean it's very intimidating. So, I did this series. I posted my mom's. I remember when I posted it cuz my husband goes, "Well, don't post it yet." Like, I don't know if you have enough product. I'm like, "It's fine." Like, "No, it's just a series." Well, hers went viral. So, she was almost at 3 million now. And that really put me on the map. >> And I never thought I was going to continue it, but now we're in our seventh season. It's been seven years. And I've had women women would come to the studio. I had the studio I was in for 16 years. It's my little studio. And they they would come and you would see I would be coming out of the back seeing a client and there's someone at the the window like this and I was like good thing it's all women. Can you imagine? I would be be like wait who's looking in? So they'd be like hi I'm in town you know or they're from California they're from Puerto Rico. They're from all over. He'd be like, "I just wanted to stop by." And I would be like, "Oh, okay." Like I'm in the middle of the work day, right? And I would say, "Well, since you're here, do you want to be on my channel?" They'd be like, "Oh, okay. I'll be come back at 9:00." So that's how the series really, it was so raw and real. I mean, it was so not planned. It was just like, "Okay, let's do it." And then I think that really resonated with a lot of people. The stories were so amazing. And the key about this series is that most the beauty industry avoids wrinkles and bags and pigmentation and dark circles and in in thinning hair, all the things that happen to women because of so many different factors. >> And I work with those. I want the problems because we have solutions for those. And you don't have to have surgery. If you want to have surgery, great. I mean, I'm not opposed to that at all. I always say that you want to do Botox and filler, do it. But if you don't want to do it, like we can work on all kinds of stuff. You know what I mean? It's just really the mindset. So I I just think that it's a really powerful series because, you know, I just said it to my my team yesterday were on Tuesday when we were filming. So you know what's really special about my ladies is that they all look so different. They don't have same face. And we know that in social media now we're dealing with same face. Everybody looks the same. Mhm. >> You know, go back to the 80s and 90s. Everybody had that unique look to them. They everybody looked just like uniquely them, whatever that was. And now we're like running into like a little bit of blurred lines where everybody is looking like the same. And no one really can decipher, oh no, that's so and so. Oh no, it's not. Oh, that's weird. She looks just like, you know, her. >> So that's something that's really special, I think, with my ladies because they all look very unique. What would you say is, you know, just thinking of different age groups for different beauty tips for people maybe that they don't think about like for women 40s, 50s, 60s is does it kind of change as it progresses? Are there different things that you do? >> You know, it depends because sometimes we we might not have that much pigmentation in our 40s and then we start seeing it like dippies or maybe the the dark circles are a little bit more apparent or just things are interesting. Like last night in my live, I was saying that I have pigmentation on the sides. I'm a native flidian. It's just bounc. >> I have them all on my jaw. Y >> right. It doesn't matter if we put sunscreen on forever. It's just the the fact that you're outside and you're not sunbathing, etc. But the other morning I was like, are these new? Like they're closer to like my mouth. I'm like the Okay, there's a line that you're supposed to stay back on. You're not supposed to come forward. I was like, what are you? I was like, I think these are new. I was like, oh no. And so I think that it it starts happening like it's different for everybody, but you know in I I do feel like my ladies in their 70s, you know, they talk more about skin texture and like feeling like their faces aren't as tight or maybe the jawline. Like there's certain things like that. >> But you know, and what do you do? Is it like different tips? Like do is it true we should use like something more like moisturizing or shiny as we get older instead of like really matte things? You know, I think it depends on your skin. I mean, there's some ladies that are mature that have really oily skin, right? So, they're not going to go for something that's dewy or going to give them like this like radiant look cuz they already get that by having more oily skin. So, they would want to probably go into semi matte. I don't know about how great matte is as an aging face because of the texture of the skin or, you know, it just depends on personal preference, too. I mean, if you love matte, then I mean, that's the way to go. But um there are things you know depending on each individual and that's what I that's why it's really wonderful to show so many different types of skin so many different types of you know or so many different decades of ages because then you can at least have a takeaway or you learn something. I mean like I think that's what's important but taking those little snippets just like on a podcast. You're not going to maybe you don't absorb the whole thing. You listen to it again. Oh my gosh I didn't even catch that the first time. You know, like when you when you repeat different things that or videos or podcasts that you really like, I feel like you really take away different things each time. >> Mhm. >> Tell me about how your makeup line started cuz that's a big, you know, I think a lot of people have the dream of something like this, but you know, don't know where to start, like think that they have to get it all right from the beginning. So, tell me about that journey. >> So, I didn't plan to start my own cosmetic company. I was in my treatment room and I was working out of my makeup kit which is my tower that I would take all over the country. So I was doing >> you were an esthetician at the time. Were you aesthetician at the time? At that particular >> Yes. I So I opened So I was in beauty forever, right? Since 1996. >> The reason why I became a makeup artist, I didn't want to be going to Europe every summer as a model. So I was a model with Ford in New York and in Miami. And it was just like chasing the tail of the dog, right? Every market and then I would have to go to Chicago and then I would go to New York and it was a lot. So I've been working since high school. So I lived with Eileen Ford on my my spring breaks and everybody else was going to Cancun. But I enjoy working. I enjoy the whole I I enjoyed it. So I was in a very adult world at a very young age. >> And so I just felt like, you know what? I went around to all the counters. I did makeup for the theater department at school. So I thought, well, maybe someone will give me a chance. I went around to all of the counters, cosmetic counters. Do we still have those now in the mall? And I said, "Who is your account executive?" So, I asked and figured out who I could get an interview with and how I could start the process. And that was just part of what I do. I would always create jobs for myself. And so, from there, I, you know, once you're in the beauty industry and you're a freelancer, then you go around. I worked for Bobby Brown. I worked for Chanel. That's really kind of how it works. And then I was part of Screen Actors Guild. It went on strike in 1999. I was in New York trying to do soaps and all that kind of stuff. And I was like, "Now I can't work." Okay, great. So, I always wanted to be an ER nurse. I did shadow a nurse for a while. I thought, you know what? Maybe I'll go into Miami. I need some action. >> So, nursing program was two-year weight list. So, I went into medical aesthetics and I worked with a dermatologist. And so, that's when the that's when my corporate career really opened up because now I'm an aesthetician. I felt like I didn't really want to be in a dark treatment room when I was 23. Uh so I went out and I became a regional sales manager. Then I had seven states. Then I had offshore. I was doing all this. Then I became a national trainer with Dr. Gross and opening Bliss Boss and Nordstrom trainings. And so I was really in it. And then when you do that circuit for a while and you're flying a million times a week and you're really on the road all the time, I in 2006 I was ready to open my own studio. I was like, I just don't want the corporate life anymore. I want to open my own studio. And that's what I did. So I opened up my company called Fresh Beauty Studio 2006. And I created a team of girls that were makeup artists and hair stylist. And I wanted to do high-end weddings. >> That's all I really wanted to do. So, we would fly to the Bahamas, we'd fly to New York, we fly all over and do these weddings. And I brought my modeling background of it being like a big production because it is. And I wanted them to feel beautiful and pampered but look like themselves. I couldn't stand wedding makeup. It looked hor I'm like, is this the same person? So, I wanted them to have like that InStyle magazine, really beautiful, just fresh faces so they look like themselves. >> So, that was the mission. And so then I would be work. So I'd have my kit when my my clients would come in for facials and then after like, oh, what makeup, you know, I really want X, Y, and Z. And I'm thinking, h, all right. Or they would want a lesson. So I would do a lesson, but out of my professional kit. Then I would write everything down on a face chart and I would say, okay, this is what you can do. You can get this at Sephora, this and that. They would get to Sephora and then they would be like, "No, you need this. You need that." like and then my poor client was calling me from there like they said I need this. I'm like oh god. I was like okay. So now it's very confusing for them. So I started having a couple things that you know some eyehadows, some lipsticks and lip glosses so I could help them. Then I started doing classes like at night for my clients and I said I don't want you to buy everything. I want you just to fill in the spaces like no you don't need that much. Then I did a class called junk in the trunk and I would have them bring all their makeup to the studio. I mean some people came in with bins I mean bins of makeup. >> As women we have bins and bins of makeup. >> Yes. And I was like oh my gosh. I was like okay. So I'm like well how old is that? So I really don't ask me that question. >> I know. I really started understanding like these women really they buy it but they don't know how to use it. Yeah. >> And I was like, "This is and then it expires. Then you shouldn't be using this product. These aren't the right colors." And >> so I really I knew what I wanted to create because I saw what they were doing. And so what happened was in 2020, and this is what's really this is what's really interesting about our relationship before meeting today is that I remember in 2020 listening to you and Chris when you would come on and here I am like, okay, I'm in the middle of like redoing my line, repackaging, reformulating. I'm a woman, so of course in manufacturing getting kicked around. um have a lot of men talking down to me and really kind of saying, you know what, you can't do this. No, we don't. I mean, excuse me. So, when I would be on my walks and working out, listening to the two of you, and it was like, this is the time where we hit go. This is a time where we this, you know, people are sitting on their couch like, "Okay, there's I don't know what to do or I there's nothing to do or I'm going to." You were advocating for this is when you start. This is when you put the plan together. This is and so it kept me going and it was a really important factor for me because you could easily give up. You could easily be overwhelmed with what was going on because no one had navigated it before. So, I just felt that it was a it was very powerful, especially when Chris would come on and be like, "This is what we're doing." >> You know what I mean? Like, this is the direction. You don't give up. You actually, you know, you you press harder. You you work harder. You do all of this. So, that's what I did. And I didn't really know what I was doing with just when you go into a world of manufacturing logistics. And you know, I think people think that I'm just, you know, like on YouTube and I don't do any, you know, what do I what do I really do? No, I formulated all the products because I touched the ladies faces. I know exactly what I want. I knew the packaging I wanted because my customer has shaky hands, poor eyesight, tremors, arthritis. I mean, there's all these factors that go into something so simplistic as a packaging that most people don't think about. >> So, these are really these are really important things. So I re I did all of that in 2020 and then started rolling out the line, but I reproduced 70 different SKUs. So it was a big undertaking. >> Wow. >> That's basically how I I mean that's how I started it and I brought it to what it is now. >> Wow. You just you you dove in and you didn't stop. You just But was there some points in there where you thought of stopping? >> You know, I remember being because I had I'm on so many different time zones. I was, you know, most of my work was a lot, you know, like 11:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. and then I would I had I that I had decided to hire editors because I just honestly couldn't do it anymore because it was just so taxing trying to create the line. One time I got off the call and I said to myself, "Oh my gosh, this is amazing. You haven't cried or given up." Like I was like it just it just came to me like like it was so tough. I was like what what's happening? Like why why do I feel like I'm not getting anywhere? And I was like you know what I was like I'm actually really proud of myself because unless you're in it, you don't know how you're treated or what happens or you know it's a rough ride >> but you if you strap in and you know your vision and you know why you're doing it and who you're doing it for. That was my motivation because I was like, I'm not gonna have someone stop me or try to, you know, be the wrong person to breathe life into my product, you know, and it was scary because, you know, you're like, well, do I take the abuse because I I have to get through this or do I say, you know what, no, someone's not going to talk to me like that. So, I had to make those decisions that were tough. When you were creating this, was this like was this something that you were also creating for yourself or you were so hands-on it was like for the women and how did you know that there was was there like a major lack in the industry? What and what do you think you filled? >> You know, I feel like when I would be on set in my in with my all of my makeup, >> it was like gosh, I wish you know this this works, but it's not the way I want it to work. It's not coming out. It's not applying. the formula should be like x y and z. Like I had those moments where I was like only if I had this that would be like this is what I need. So I think that of course I you know I create it for myself as a an aging woman where it's like it has to perform you know especially I used to I used to be testing my BB cream where I would be taking like all the boxes and the garbage out to the dumpster and it was so hot and I'd be wearing my jacket of course because I was like I want to be hot like if you are a woman like in the city and whatever like if I keep going back and forth in 92°ree weather and it's super humid here. Does it last? Does it look greasy? Does it whatever? So, I'd always test it out like in these really interesting environments. I would take it to Vegas. I was like, "What's going to happen here?" Like, "This is dry now. We don't have the humidity that we have." So, I would do those kind of things, but of course, creating for myself because everything that I produce and I put out there, I have to love. I have to know exactly how it's going to work. It will my product work for every single person? No, of course not. you know, it's just like someone might not like a liquid. Someone really likes more of a cream or, you know, whatever that is, but I did see a very big white space for mature women because I feel like it's if someone had a choice, they're not going to say, "Oh, I would love to see lines and wrinkles and pigmentation on someone's face or tight skin and, you know, a 22-year-old skin." I mean, that's just reality of our society and how it how it works. Mhm. >> So, I just felt like these women are say being told like, you know, you've expired or like who cares about makeup now or why are you even trying? I mean, what does it matter? And to me, in my world in like this beauty bubble, it it really does because I feel like that's how if you put yourself together and you feel incredible, you have a different energy. >> You walk into the room differently. You speak differently. And if people think it's silly, then they haven't even tapped into the power of self-care, dressing for yourself, and putting yourself together. I mean, it's it's a whole mindset, but it's also it's also something that can dramatically change your life. >> Yeah. I mean, we've been doing this since the beginning of history, like adorning ourselves. Like, it really is like a ritual of I think like feeling good. It's so crazy. I was looking back at some of my podcasts like probably probably towards the beginning like seven, eight years ago. Um, and some I would do video on and especially when I really first started doing video, which is probably like five years ago, I did not wear any makeup and I would put my hair. It's just like I was in my pajamas literally like hair in a high pony, which great. So glad I had the confidence to do that. But if I was really being honest with myself, I didn't feel good sitting there seeing myself. And I also didn't feel like I was giving the guest like the respect that maybe they deserve for me to get ready for them. And while some people might think totally different, this is just what was internally happening for me. >> And when I really started getting dressed, doing my hair, putting on some makeup, like I feel transformed. And in in in full transparency, my audience started growing. I started attracting a better client. Like I just I do think it matters. I feel like you you do feel different within yourself. Like I feel like just more confident and like I have more respect for myself. And I think the process of it too is like even taking that time to put makeup on. I know it sounds crazy to some people, but it's become really real ritualistic. I'll listen to a podcast. I'll listen to a visualization. Like it's a preparation for what I want for the day. So, I I love that you're that you're giving attention especially to that age demographic because let me tell you guys, we're all going to get there. We're all going to get there and we're not going to want to feel left behind or left out or not important. And I I think what you're doing is so incredibly awesome because you're also you're also making them look freaking beautiful. That's what I always loved when I was on set and I would be doing I just knew like where I'm taking this person like this this this face that just you know sat in my chair and I I could see where I wanted them to be and it was just so gratifying to be able to, you know, make that that transformation but just prettier. It wasn't like covering up. It wasn't about the makeup. She was wearing the makeup. The makeup wasn't wearing her. And that was really the philosophy. So, it really just made me and just, you know, that's just kind of like what it I I just love that. I love it. >> You have an awesome like transformation story of someone sitting in your chair. >> Oh my gosh, these ladies. You know, I think what's really important is is a lot of women, especially in the demographic of getting, you know, in their 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, you know, they're they're widows now or they're dealing with, you know, I had one woman on last season that in all in one day or it was one it was or maybe it was the the month, can't remember, she got divorced, she lost her job, and she was diagnosed with cancer all in a month. And so it was really an interesting story on, you know, taking that and how she turned it around for herself. So there's a lot of stories like that with the ladies that come on that really have in her in what's so special is that they're willing to share, >> you know, because so many people deal with so many things and you feel like you're alone because that's the whole thing with the whole IVF. I'm thinking to myself, wow, like all, you know, I'm with all these brides like super easy for everyone. like all my clients have kids like like what's like like there's something wrong right >> when I came out with it I had a separate channel for it to keep it separate oh my gosh you know and then then all my clients are telling me how many miscarriages they had and all these things and whatever so women do suffer silently because they're embarrassed they're ashamed they don't have community and it's like oh I'm the only one >> like this is only happening to me until you start talking and connecting with other women it's just It's so powerful. And that's that's what that series does for women that could be sitting on the couch feeling depressed, lonely, like I'm the only person or then I then these stories come out and they're like, "Oh my gosh, like that's encouraging." Like that all happened to her and then look what she did with it or I could do that too or whatever. So, you know, that's really that's really why this series is so important. >> Okay. Okay. So, with everything that you've learned from women in their 50s, 60s,7s, especially women in like le let's talk about like 60s,7s, 80s, because you've gotten to spend a lot of time with them. What would you say back to women in their 30s and 40s right now? My 70s decade seems to be my favorite in a lot of ways. >> Oh, awesome. I love this. It's really interesting because they they you know because I find it to be scary sometimes like right with anxiety and like what's going to happen and then you look at like the news for a second and you're like oh my gosh like you know like and then you look at these women in their 70s and 80s that have been through so many different social issues and all of the things that go on and whatever and they're like you the one of the ladies said you know what's the best I said what's the best advice you would give to women in their 30s and 40s and she's like relax. >> She's like just relax and be present. And you know, they're always and I said I love the advice because they've made it up there, right? And they're looking back and saying, you know, stop worrying so much about everything. You know, just think about what you're grateful for. Think about, you know, staying healthy and focusing on things that you really can control. And so it really kind of puts it back to perspective for me cuz I can get like a little wild when it comes to like, oh my gosh, you know, I have so many things and it gets to be overwhelming. And then I look at these women and I think, wow, it just it makes me feel more confident in aging. And like there's great things to look forward to despite what society says, despite what social media says. And you don't want to go down that path, you know? And I think it's about mind control and and and saying, "You know what? I I want to like what's your intention? What do you want to be at 70s?" I asked one of my guests, I said, "Did you ever think like in your 40s like like me, did you ever think, I wonder what I'm going to be like in my 70s?" >> She's like, "No, never." Cuz they don't like I think I'm always thinking like, "I want to be strong. I want to be doing things." I mean, I look at these centurions and I'm like, "That's what I want. I want to be like lifting weights still and you know all of those things like how do I want to map it out. I think it's important to really have that vision now and not be like well I don't know what's going to I hope you know like the intentions there that I want to be like you know doing all the things and not being like oh well I'm 80 I can't do that. >> Oh my god I'm in the I'm actually in the same boat. I'm literally like, "Okay, if this is how I want to be when I'm 80 because I want to make sure I'm still skiing and playing pickle ball and like doing all the things and that I'm even more fashionable than I could even picture right now in my head. I'm like, what would I need to start doing now in order to do that?" And it's it's actually been like a really empowering thought instead of a fearful thought >> because I'm like, "Oh my god, look at all the cool things out there for older people." I live in Newport Beach and now like I think it just opens up your world to go, "Holy crap, these old these women who next to me who are way older are like schooling me in in pickle ball and look at how much fun they're having." So it's giving me this totally different perspective over like okay I can see that instead of dread because honestly I think when we're in our 20s and 30s I'm just being so open and vulnerable. I think we dread getting older. I think we're afraid so afraid of it >> because I did not see a good picture of it growing up. >> I did not see a good picture of it. I heard >> oh wait till you're you know 40, your life is over. This is what you give up. This is what you don't have anymore. This is how you feel. You feel horrible. You don't look good. Like this this is literally the language that is in my head if I rewound to when I was a child. And I love that you are completely resetting the language. Well, it's interesting because I turned 50 in October. So, I was thinking, gosh, that's so interesting. Like half a century. Like, that's what I keep thinking, right? And then I think to myself, where did all the time go? Right? Like, what was I like in my 20s? Can I remember? You know, it's like weird because it's not that it's not that long ago, but >> it's just it's just interesting to look back and then to to be like, well, that's in the past. Like, this is what I have now. And and how exciting. I always feel like in a way it's like if I'm playing golf like I'm on the back nine right now I'm on like I'm going on that the the second part of your life and what does that look like you know and I think that there's a lot of mature men and women breaking that mold showing you how fit looks at 80 and 90. I share it all the time on Instagram when I see these powerful stories where it is possible. It just depends on what you want to do and how you navigate that. M what do you want that back half to look like? I know that's literally been a phrase in my head as I'm like what what do I want this like what do I want the second half of my life to be because it feels I I I would love to know for you if you hit a spot in your 40s where it felt like a complete like moment and this is what happened to me recently. I was like, "Oh, whoa. I'm getting presented with AI'm I'm at a fork in the road, and I can decide to like really make this the best half of my life, or I can decide to be like, oh, this is this is getting older. This sucks." And I'm like, I am going to obviously choose to make this the best half. But it felt like a true moment. Like almost within just this moment in time, within a week, I was like, "Holy crap." just this realization that I'm kind of at a midway point. And you know, I think there's a whole like almost like getting to reinvent yourself, like choosing to like reinvent this second portion of your life. I'm curious what you want to do and how you view that second portion of your life. You know, I think that when it comes to intentions, I think it's about the habits and it's about if you do the little habits like you move the needle 1%, right? I didn't finish Atomic Habits. I I did I did buy I still have the book. But I know where where he was saying that if you just get a little better each day. I think that's the concentration as you're aging because you don't want to look at like what am I going to do with the next 30 years? Because it's overwhelming. Or you know when people are like where do you see yourself in 10 years? It's like oh okay let's back it up like >> this is where I want to see myself by the end of the year like working out three times a week or I really want to strengthen the meditation. And I think if you concentrate on those little habits that you're going to get the full picture because that's where it really starts like okay you know what I really need to concentrate more on my diet because as they're getting older maybe it's a little bit harder. I mean the thing is I think a hard part for women in our age bracket now is that from what I see it's like gaslighting us with menopause and all the things and you lose your estrogen your face falls and you know I have I see a lot of men on YouTube doctors and everything like trying to make it so fearful and make women feel like oh my gosh like it's over. I mean that's really the message about this whole menopause and everything like that. And I say to myself, I mean, I've heard the horror stories. And it's true. It happens for some women, but I think, okay, you know what? Take it step by step. Don't freak out. Okay, that's someone else's experience. Might not be yours. And I just think that taking those little bites and then putting them all together like is stringing along where you want to be because you obviously have the vision of being really strong in the mind. I think that's really important first before the body because the mind is really what you have to control in my opinion. And then doing all the little things that will help you each day instead of like looking at this huge like, you know, goal and then missing it all and then being disappointed that you're like, "Oh, I didn't get there." Well, yeah, because you have to take those little steps to make sure every day you're doing that. You know, you're checking them off. I I feel like when I do that, it helps me feel more accomplished than being like, "Oh, here's the big goal, but it's all like gray area and I didn't do anything, right? I kind of skipped over all the real important steps." >> That's totally what I've always had to do because I can't I get really overwhelmed easy. It's like a It's probably the first thing in my personality that's like I will I will experience overwhelm if I see something really big. I have to just focus on like what do I want to get done this week? Um, I think one of the biggest things kind of like you said, I've just been focusing on, okay, I want to really dial in like my food. Like I just want to make sure I'm eating really healthy for like my brain, for my skin, for longevity, all of the things. And and I kind of focus on one thing at a time. Is there anything that you want to leave women with? Any empowering statement that's really helped you? >> You know, I came up with this tag. Well, I have two taglines. when I I don't know when it started back in the day of when I started my videos. I would say let's get this beauty started >> and it was just kind of like a launching pad to go into like the intro or what have you. So, I actually etched that into one of my compacts. I think you might have um if you have one of my blush compacts um the longer ones I etched Yes, I etched it into the mirror. So, if you open it up and it says, "Let's get this beauty started." It's it's kind of when you're not feeling it or you're like, you know, you're reminded that you're you're worth getting your beauty started no matter where you are in the whole beauty game. And the other kind of tagline that I came up with and and I don't know where it came either, but I always tell the ladies that they're bold, fierce, and unapologetic. And I, you know, I truly believe in that. And I I believe in going against the grain. I believe in ruffling the feathers. I believe in not being status quo and I believe that mature women should push it full throttle and I I want to see that and and and that's why I really encourage them through beauty to do that >> to take it to the next level. Don't play small. Take up space. I don't want them sitting back thinking people are telling them that they're not worth it or it's not this or that. You know what? Challenge that >> and get out there and show your beautiful face. I don't care if you have fine lines and wrinkles or you have pigmentation or you have whatever it is >> because the the the mentality should change that it's beautiful >> and not be constantly shamed that you have to change yourself or fix things because you don't you don't have to fix anything. If you feel that you need to fix something, that's a different story because that's coming in from you and what bothers you. If you're listening to other people, you will change yourself. And I know this as a model with everything that was told to me to change. And I was like, I don't think so. Oh, lose weight, lose weight. I was like, what? And you do and it's not good enough. They'll always be asking you to change. So, you have to do things coming from you and what your desires are and what's important to you. And that's it. Period. On the story. >> Oh, I love that. And I I I have loved following you. Like I I really follow you. like you come up in my all of the time like I I like you've been in my life for a lot of years because I really enjoy it. I think, you know, there's there's so many people we can look at for fashion and style and all the things, which by the way, you guys, if if you like fashion and just, you know, looking at just style and makeup and hair, like you are so much fun to follow on Instagram. >> Um, she's just got such beautiful clothes and such beautiful taste and putting it all together, but it's an energy and so I feel like it's just you're like the ultimate package to follow for everything. meaning like it's not just about the clothes, it's not just about the hair. It's like you are an embodiment to follow and that is so cool because I'm just like when I look at yourself I'm like yes yes yes. That's sometimes all I write is yes like with a lot of S's. So >> that's very sweet. Thank you so much for that nice compliment. >> Oh, you're just you're incredible and um you know I feel like your your energy is rippling like way outside of what you even realize. Um, and I hope you guys listening go and follow. And I'm I'm looking at this beautiful palette of lipsticks, which by the way, she has incredible makeup. Um, I love love love. I can't wait to try this cream highlighter, blush, and bronzer. If anyone knows me, I'm all about the crap out of my face. >> I know. I thought you would. I thought you would enjoy it because it's all cream. And I know you're in a little bit of a hot environment, too. >> Yeah. And it's it's stunning. And so I love the names, too. Oh my gosh, this is so beautiful. Beach House. I should I should have put beach house on. It's where I'm at right now. >> I know. It's a coral. It's beautiful. It would look great though. All of those will really really look good on you and figure it out in there. And actually, I can. >> They're kept in the new line. >> The line is beautiful. You guys go and check it out. I'm putting literally everything in the show notes. Um, but you can go to Nicole Beauty Nol Beauty.com to go and check everything out. But definitely also go follow. I'm putting her Instagram handle down here and her YouTube. And Nicole, thank you so much for coming on the show. I loved getting to chat and hear the story. >> Thank you, Lori. It was really an honor. >> Oh, thank you guys so much. And you can tune in next week and I will see you soon. Everybody, earn your happy. The bite.