 we've never been so informed yet also so misinformed, especially for women in their 40s. Like, I feel like we are just targeted so hardcore right now. Like, they know that we have some pain points. Yeah. Our life is different at this point. Things are changing. Every company right now is making a menopause supplement, a weighted vest, a menopause skincare range, etc., etc. Fantastic. But we have to be able to disseminate what is actually going to help us through carrying postmenopause. All right, Jennifer, welcome back to the show. This is part three, and we have been talking about nutrition, supplement, fitness, and lifestyle strategies for high-achieving women. First of all, we did part one and part two, which absolutely blew my mind. Thank you. And I feel like there's so much information there, but also, like, really great places to get started that you gave. So if you have not listened to part one and part two, you're going to want to go back and do that, but you don't have to do that in order to listen to part three. Because today on part three, we are talking about busting through health misinformation on social media. And this was a really big piece for me of why I even wanted to start my own company, if I'm being honest, because I was in health and fitness. Yeah. And I was so overwhelmed with everything that was coming out, because on social media right now, there is just a big fight for attention. And we kind of talked about this in part one and part two and chatting about how a lot of people are giving misinformation or they're trying to be polarizing. And a lot of times the answer is found kind of in the great. It's found kind of in the middle of where you should be at and what you should be doing for your own health and your own fitness and your own plans, because we're all so different. We all lead such different lifestyles. And when people are giving information on the internet, they want that spike. They want to go viral. They want those views. And that means they're going to take a stance on something that maybe they shouldn't be taking a stance on or everyone shouldn't be doing. So, you know, we've talked about your incredible credentials. You've worked with so many people. You've worked with celebrities. You've worked with Olympians. You are a board certified nutrition professional, a certified personal trainer, a clinical weight management practitioner, a beauty nutrition expert. You've probably seen her name in multiple beauty magazines as one of the experts weighing in. And I'm really excited today to kind of like call some of these things out and bust them out and talk about some of the things that are going to be going on. The different things that are trending right now. So why do you think that social media has become the go to source for health and wellness information even among like the smartest, most successful women? And I will say, I do go there sometimes and I'm like, should I be doing this? Oh, my God, should I be getting rid of that? Should I not eat rice anymore? It's it's at our fingertips. We are on our devices 24 seven. It's so much easier to click on to an Instagram post and it's to go and research clinical studies, you know, reading clinical papers, reading scientific studies as a whole. It's a whole other case. It's insane. It's insane. Yeah, you know that from Glossy. So of course, we're going to rather get that from our, you know, entertainment at the end of our fingers. We're going to look on Instagram and then the second that we look at one thing or, you know, we've both got our phones in the room. We've talked about a ton of things. We're going to be inundated with Instagram posts of all the things that we've talked about. Oh, my God. Like, we're going to have all of the things, but it's just it's so easy and so accessible. That's why we're getting our health information from there. OK, so what makes misinformation on these platforms so incredibly convincing, even when it contradicts the things that we feel like we have known or even maybe worked for us or hasn't worked for us. Right. It's a multi-billion dollar industry, both from the brands, influencers, experts who are putting this information out and then both from the people that provide us these platforms who know that if we look at one thing on, I don't know, let's say juice cleansers, we're going to want to look at 50 other things on juice cleansers. Now, we don't have the reasoning abilities with that there late night scrolling to think, oh, now I'm only seeing this because I've looked at one thing. We're just going to take it as that's gospel because we just keep seeing it all the time and we know that repetition builds those neural pathways in the brain. So if we look at one post, one time, that's all we're going to be seeing. And it's that repetition and that overlaying of those patterns that makes us believe it when it's rational, educated, intelligent women. If we took a step back, we probably wouldn't. Oh, man. So like the algorithm, literally, we know this, especially now with the new algorithm that everyone has been talking about. It's just going to amplify what you've already looked at or what you've already searched. And I find sometimes with different things that are coming up or food things that people are telling us to do or not to do, it's easy to want to blame all of your problems on one thing. So when we find something, it's like, maybe I know my mom's having problems. Maybe this is it. And we send it to all our friends and it's like, this is why we're, you know, we have anxiety. This is why we feel depressed. This is why we can't lose weight. And we're always trying to kind of like pinpoint it on this one thing because it is a multi-billion dollar industry that they're constantly trying to fight for your attention and get you to buy. And now there is great stuff out there. There's great supplements. There's great information. But we have to know when we're in the sea of information that people have an agenda with their content, even when these are like doctors and different creators and, you know, people that you think don't have an agenda. They still have an agenda. I'm not saying they're bad people, but we all have an agenda. So it's really important to look at content from that aspect of like, okay, why is this person only talking about this? Do they have a supplement coming out? Yes. Something that they're trying to say where I'm like, okay, this is really interesting to see it that way. So we've never been so informed yet also so misinformed. So especially for women in their 40s, like I feel like we are just targeted so hardcore. Yeah, they know that we have some pain points. Yeah, life is different at this point. Things are changing. We also have some extra cash. Yeah. So we're like the most targeted demographic. Yeah. 30s, late 30s, early 40s. How do we know who to trust? You know, menopause is the new black. And it's great that we're talking about it. I don't know about you, but I had no idea. You know, I remember my mom going through menopause, but I don't think I even knew that it was called menopause. No, I had no idea. No idea. No idea. So thank goodness we are. It's great that we're talking about it, that there's more education about it. That's, you know, you and I talk about it. It does come up in conversation. Fantastic. But yes, it is a million dollar market right now. Every supplement, every weighted vest, everything out there is this is going to help you through perimenopause and menopause. Now, the information would be fantastic. The information could be empowering. But what I see, even from some of the biggest names out there, and there's one in particular that I'm thinking of, is how doom and gloom perimenopause and menopausers. Now I work for Versaly, which is Johnson Johnson's menopausal health platform. And I've had the opportunity to be in rooms of hundreds of women in perimenopause and postmenopause. Everybody's experience is different. And 99% of them are not having the doom and gloom experience that we're seeing on social media. Because someone saying menopause sucked a little bit, but it was okay. It went through very quickly. I was fine is not going to get the clicks as my whole life is falling apart by all of my supplements and my weighted vest and I will fix everything for you. So we need to be talking about gray areas, but gray areas don't get clicks or likes or an engagement. And I think we are so targeted as women in perimenopause menopause because exactly as you said, we have changes in our bodies that we want to address. And we have income and the time to do something about it. And we are so targeted. Every company right now is making a menopause supplement, a weighted vest, a menopause this, a menopause skin care range, etc. Fantastic. But we have to be able to disseminate what is actually going to help us through perimenopause menopause. What have you found in the sea of like swimming through, you know, the things for menopause, the ocean for perimenopause and menopause? What are some things that you're like, okay, I think these are important things to look at for women. Yeah, I think it's going back to the foundations. I think it's understanding exactly what does happen in perimenopause and postmenopause. Like what changes are we experiencing in our body? Bone density, muscle mass, cardiovascular health, all of those things so, so important. So again, it's doing those foundations. Foundations don't sell supplements. So really for women, perimenopause, postmenopause, make sure your blood sugar is balanced, make sure your strength training. You know, maybe in perimenopause menopause is when we want to get on board with a cardiovascular doctor. We want to be looking after our heart health a little bit more, some different testing. But really it's doing the foundations well and just know that no supplement is going to out optimize hormone and balances, etc, etc. So there's no number one, we're not going to cure menopause. But number two, do the basics right, get the diet right, get the strength training right, manage your stress, managing your sleep. And then supplements should be that last one to two percent of the game. How do you feel about all of the hormone therapy and everything around it right now? I think HRT is fantastic. It's a right tool in the right toolbox for the right person. I personally take HRT myself on all of the hormones, but I do that through a very qualified, experienced doctor who is checking my labs every three months. And everything is optimized for me, for my health, for my health background, for my health challenges, what I want to optimize. So again, it just has to be the right tool for you. For some people, HRT is a great fit. For some people, it's not. But there's no one size fits all. I'm like so open to everything, especially with with AI and all the things. I'm like, no, tell me how science has caught up. Yeah. And what we're able to do because I want to get better in life. And you know what? It's really crazy because there's so many hormones out there for men and it's been normalized so much about like, well, oh my gosh, you're losing muscle. We don't want that. You don't want that. Like you here take this or oh my gosh, you've lost your drive. Take this. And for women, it's like we're sitting here alone going, wait, why do I not feel motivated? Why? Why am I losing my muscle? And it's actually been a conversation that I feel is really taboo for some people. Like, oh my gosh, you take what? Or hormone therapy? I take testosterone. Yeah. All of the things, right? Yeah. Like so many women I know do. I like do not yet, but I will. Like as soon as I start to notice. Yeah. Because like I said, I do my labs quarterly and I everything like as soon as things start to dip or I start to really notice something. Absolutely. Like that's the first thing I'm going to say. The first thing I'm going to start is looking at all of those things. And you're so right about that discrepancy between men and women and also women live longer. So we're going to live longer. Let's keep us vital and alive. When I first started noticing a dip in my muscle mass, my performance, my drive, I went to see my PCP and my OBGYN. And they did my hormone tests and my OBGYN didn't look at my testosterone. And they were just like, yes, you're in perimenopause, but you're not having any of the vasomotor symptoms. You're not having the hot flashes of the night sweats. So we're not going to do anything about it. Not me knowing what I know, I'm like, nope, I want to get ahead of this. I'm a smaller person anyway. I could possibly, you know, if I'm not looking after my bone health, osteopenia, osteoporosis, I've seen it in too many of my clients. Like I've seen what happens when you don't optimize these things. So I'm like, no, let me get ahead of the game. So I then started working with a new doctor who did. So I mean, I went in and I think I had like 18 or 19 vials of blood. The flibosomus is like, you OK? I'm like, yeah, I'm fine. But we looked at everything we found my testosterone was low. So I take a very, very small amount of testosterone. Now, I need that for my optimal health. I need it for my muscle mass, my bone density, my brain function, my drive. But that's the right fit for me. So again, it's this, what is the right fit for you? And to be honest, you're not going to find that scrolling on social media. Yeah, I love hearing about just all of the different ways that we can get help now, especially for women. And I think you just have to. What's your best advice for someone who's like, wow, I've never thought to check that or maybe these mood dips or this feeling of, you know, I was talking to I had a hormone expert on a little while ago and she was talking about how, you know, if we think back to how our moms were going through menopause and perimenopause, like we probably just saw them really struggling with like maybe their identity of not knowing what they should do at that point in their life or who they were or feeling really exhausted or extremely overwhelmed. Or maybe you remember them not being able to handle a lot at a certain point or like really changing who you remember your mom as. And I remember distinctly going, whoa, what is wrong with my mom? I remember, you know, even my husband's mom going, what is something has changed? Like, and we had no conversation around it. No idea. Right. We were just like, oh, they're bitchy. Yeah, they're going through something. And what is that? Like, you just kind of want to stay away from them for a while. And unfortunately, I wish they could have had this help. Yeah, we were going through it alone and going through all of these mental changes with a lot of that must have been so hard. Yeah. And, you know, looking back and even talking to them like they felt like they were crazy because everyone was telling them they were fine. Yeah. And now we can actually go, no, some things have changed. Yes. And we want to optimize this. And how do we do it? So where would you recommend people go or start for that? You know, you always want to start with your PCP, your nurse practitioner, whoever that first port of call is. But if you feel like you're not being listened to, this is where we have to shop around. Now, I work with clients who have fantastic PCPs and they're covered by their insurance. And it's like, never let that person go. For a lot of us, that's not the case. And we may have to go somewhere outside of our insurance. We may have to look around. We may have to get recommendations. But you should always want to feel that you can question your doctor. Your doctor is not going to just brush you off. You're not going to the doctor is not going to say, oh, it's just normal or it's just your age. You really want to be able to have that conversation with your doctor. And if you can't, that's when you need to open the conversation up. If you have a health care provider that you really love, let's say you don't love your PCP, but you love your OBGYN, talk to them about hormone testing. If you don't love your OBGYN, maybe talk to a cardiologist. Or sometimes we may have to look outside of a scope of conventional medicine or what's covered by our insurance. And honestly, I think your health is the best investment that you can make. I pay for my doctor. It's not covered under insurance, but it's been life changing. What better investment is there going to be than my health, my longevity, my energy, my resilience? So if someone's coming to you for help, because you are a nutrition expert, you really understand about eating for beauty as well. It's like one of your passions. What types of results are you helping people get? OK, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes so there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I want to share some of my favorite products, so I consider myself a bra, that kind of sewer. So I got the fits everybody triangle bra, that and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing. I have ever felt it's buttery, it's soft, it's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn you're happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations. Effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to say 50 percent on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about. But then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly. But also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video, just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your Aura Frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting AuraFrames.com to get $35 off Aura's best selling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wire Cutter by using promo code earn at checkout. That's A-U-R-A Frames.com promo code earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frames sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. I like to work as part of the team. So ideally we've got a great doctor on board, etc, etc. But the client might come to me, they've been to their doctor, they've got some lab work, the doctor says the lab work all looks fine, you're in normal ranges. Now, normal for a very unhealthy American population. I don't know about you. I don't want to be the average of the US population and I think we should all be aiming a little bit higher. So I'm then going to look at those labs and I'm going to look at things like blood sugar balance. I'm going to look at inflammation. Do we have enough vitamin D? Do we have enough vitamin B? Are we going to have iron? What's happening with inflammation? Let's look at not just our cholesterol level, but what are those different types of cholesterol doing? So we're really taking it out of the are you alive until you have any chronic disease? If not, then how can we optimize? So that's everything from blood sugar balance to is your body absorbing the protein that you're eating to what's your magnesium status to what is your LDL to HDL cholesterol and do we need to dive a little bit deeper in there? So sometimes a client will come to me with they've just got basic lab work and we can go from there. Well, sometimes we'll start to see things that aren't quite optimized, for example, thyroid levels, and then we might go and do some further testing either with their doctor or with a different medical professional. OK, so let's talk about for affluent high achieving women who really value optimization, how do we balance like wanting the best for us? What exactly should I be doing if I want the best like supplementation out there, if I want the best attention out there without being shiny, like with resisting shiny online syndrome. Yeah, shiny online syndrome. That's a new one. It's great. You know, I think that reward that we get from shiny online syndrome, we can replace that with real results. And that's what I say to Michael. That's what we're chasing. We're chasing a buzz. We're chasing a high. Why not get that from real results that actually work for us? And when we're doing things that are optimized for us and tailored for us, we can see results in a week to two weeks. I think sometimes that's where we want that we want that quick fix. But if we just do the things that are right for us, that are tailored for us, the precision to our lab work, to our lifestyle needs, to our where we are in life, the decade we are in life, we can see results really, really quickly, even in 24 hours. So we just replace one, you know, one reward for another, but a reward that's going to do us good in the long term as well. Wow, that's really exciting. You know, I've actually, Chris and I have been chatting about this because it's really easy to think you know what you're doing, but really set in your ways. And, you know, my husband has always been like, I just, he always struggles with that last little bit of weight for him. This is this is his, his words, not mine, you guys, because I think he's perfect and amazing. I just thought he looks great. He's great, but he's always wanting to be better. And I think something that him and I want to focus on is personalization now, because we've done all this, we have all the info. Yeah, we've done all the things, but I'm sure there's a couple of things that he's eating every day that are not great for him. Meaning like that actually don't work for him because he should technically feel more fit than he feels in his body. Like he's like, I'm just not feeling as good as I know I could feel. Right. And I think it's because there are things that need to be personalized. Yeah. So when someone's thinking about personalization, what does that mean? Is it like a personalized nutrition plan? Is this personalized? Like, are we talking about, you know, different things that people are injecting? Is this peptides? Is this what does that mean when people come to you and they're like, I, I'm trying all the things. I think I'm, you know, like a Chris comes to you or a me comes to you. And we're like, we're pretty healthy, but like we feel like there's another level. So we want to start from the ground up. So number one, we want to start with lab work. So and also there are a ton of fancy functional tests. Like you can test everything. You can test every single bodily fluid. lab work is really the ground level, the foundation of that. So let's look at everything and let's make sure that you are in the optimized ranges, not just the normal ranges. So for example, for me, when I get my lab done, my TSH, my thyroid stimulating hormone, you know, thyroid is our, it's our engine of our body. It really makes our energy influences our metabolism, everything. For me, within conventional ranges, my TSH is where it needs to be. For optimal ranges, my TSH isn't optimal. So I take some thyroid medication. It's a little lower. It's a little higher. Higher, higher, which means that my body isn't making enough or converting enough. So my body is trying harder. It's like a shouting a louder signal is trying harder. Now, no peptide is going to fix that. So we really want to get in the ground, get that lab work done, get everything optimized that might be looking at thyroid, that might be looking at sex hormones. So things like testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, etc., etc. testosterone for women and men. That's a big conversation these days. So I want to make sure that the lab work is and that might mean medication. And I think a lot of people in my world, in my field, like, oh, my God, no, we can't do medication. We'll know it all works together synergistically. If my body is not making enough of something on its own, why am I not going to medicate with that? Now, I'm going to do everything else to support it. So I know for me, supporting thyroid health that comes down to my gut health, that comes from managing my stress, making sure that I'm not in too much of a calorie deficit, making sure that my foods are all nutrient dense. That then supports the medication piece of the puzzle. Then I might want to look at where my vitamin D levels are at. If I'm not making enough energy, if I'm getting sick all of the time, is my vitamin D in the optimal range, not just the normal or standard range? Because I'll see people come to me with vitamin D levels of like 31 and like the cutoff point is like 29 or 30, depending on what lab you're looking at. I'm like, we want to get you up to the 50s and 60s or the 60s and 70s for optimal. So let's add some more vitamin D in there. So there are things even within that lab work that we can tweak from the basics of hormones, thyroid, blood sugar balance. Even my when I got my labs done a year ago, when I first started really taking a deep dive, my blood sugar was good, but it wasn't optimal. Now let's optimize that. So for someone like you, for someone like Chris, getting into those labs and really making sure everything is optimal, fantastic. So number one, that's that piece. Then what are we doing with diet? Where are we optimizing? Let's say we're working out and we're not having enough energy to get through our workouts for maybe we don't need to be completely no carb. Maybe we need to put some carbohydrates in our workout. Maybe we are only eating chicken and white fish because we've been told that fat is bad, but actually our body needs some of those great fatty acids for hormone production, for energy, for our skin. Maybe we are falling into a rut and having the same type of salad all of the time and we're not getting all of those polyphenols then. So then we can look at diet. Then the next level of supplementation. So then where can we supplement to A? Undue deficiencies. So make sure that we have great levels of everything. But beware, I need to optimize a little bit. If it's coming into cold and flu season, I'm traveling a ton. Do I need more vitamin C? Even as specific as I get sculpture injections, the sculptures are what's called a bio stimulator, so they help our faces and our skin produce more collagen. When I'm on that, and this is the work that I do with the dermatologist, I'm going to have a specific protocol that helps my skin produce more collagen because I've given it the stimulating ingredients to make more collagen. Now I have to give it the raw materials so we can get that specific. Only when all of those things are dialed in, then we won't start thinking about things like peptides. And peptides, please do this with a medical professional. I had a really scary. So I'm obviously the person that all my friends text like, did you see this? What about this? Should I be taking this? I am that person. And my friends sent me a text. Should I be taking peptides? My answer is always going to be, it depends. What else are you doing? Let's talk to a doctor. But she sent me, she's like, oh, one of my friends is taking peptides and he's just ordering it from a website. And I go on this website and I'm like, OK, this is me in the rabbit hole. So go on this website and the website provides peptides for clinical research. And everything on that website says not for human use, but you can be any person with a credit card and order these peptides. You get some syringes and you inject them. How scary is that? Yeah. So if you're going to do this, where are they coming from? Where are they coming from? How much should you be having? Like injecting our things, you know, injecting things into our body, that's real. So, you know, number one, fundamentals, nutrition, supplements, and then peptides, but only with the use of a medical professional. OK, so I want to go down the peptide rabbit hole for sure. But before we do that, just talking about, like, you know, some of the trends that are going on and so many people are following the you were just talking about like what kind of foods you need. Also, the what you can eat in a day content. Yeah, this is so incredibly popular. Yeah. And it's easy just to go, oh, she looks amazing. I'm going to follow this. Yeah. What are your thoughts on that? Oh, just like anything, there's no one size fits all diet. There's no one size fits all in a day. Now, I'm not going to vilify them completely because I think we can all get inspiration from people who are healthier than us, or we can all get inspiration from things we all get stuck in a rut. So what I would say is, you know, for me as a 44 year old woman, I'm not going to go to a 20 year old skinny talk influencer and see what she's eating for the day, because that's going to be a it's probably completely wrong.  for everybody, but B, it's going to completely mess up my hormones, my energy, my metabolism, et cetera. But I might go and look at some of my peers, you know, other people my age or that are working in functional medicine, hormonal health, nutrition, and I might go, oh, they've got some really good ideas for meals. But I'm never just going to take their diet outline and put it onto my diet because it's not optimized for me, but I might use it for inspiration, especially if it's someone of a similar demographic. Okay. So we're going to talk about peptides because there's a lot of talk about peptides right now. And I think people are confused, like, do we need supplements? Do we need peptides? What is the clear difference between the two? Yeah. So a peptide is just a short chain of amino acids. And it's basically a signaling molecule to our body. So it tells our body to do something. So we can have peptides as in collagen peptides. So peptides that we put in our smoothie, you know, collagen. So these aren't just injectables. These aren't just injectables. Yeah. But what we are seeing right now is that injectable peptides on social media that is having its moment and it's a little bit scary. And peptides can do everything from so our GLP-1 agnes, those are peptides, to there are peptides that can help with our skin hair and nails. So there are peptides across the board. Now, I personally will think of peptides after I think of supplementation. So we're doing what do we need to fix medically, if anything, nutrition, supplementation, and then peptides. But peptides should be the last thing that you go to, not the first thing that you go to. If you have a, you know, let's say you're not eating enough B vitamins, and you're not getting enough energy, and you have poor thyroid function, no peptide is going to fix that. We're going to go back to the beginning. So peptides are the cherry on top, the icing on the cake. I definitely don't vilify them, but they're not where we should be starting and we should be working with a medical professional for them. Okay, let's talk about myths for perimenopausal women and post menopausal. Yeah. So we have, you know, high protein diet be bad for you. Is it good for you? Let's talk about weighted vest. Talk about all the things that you hear. Yeah. So we are basically bombarded with, we should be eating more protein, and we should be wearing weighted vest all of the time, when we're going to the toilet, when we're asleep, et cetera, et cetera. Now, are both of those things good? Yes. Is there nuance? Yes. And I think that nuance gray area, again, these are all of the things that we're not seeing on social media. So do we need a higher protein diet as we get older? Yes. So we need a higher protein diet as we get older, because we do have sarcopenia. That's the loss of our lean muscle mass. Protein is also really essential for bone density as well. I think we always think of protein just for muscle mass, but protein is essential for bone density for hair and skin. We've talked about that. But also as we are making less estrogen, we're not as able to make muscle from our workouts and from our diet. So we do need to add more protein in there. A lot of the pushback I get is a high protein diet is dangerous. And the answer is no. If you have a diagnosed kidney condition, that's when we need to be thinking about protein in the diet, but that's a very small amount of the population. So no, high protein diets are not dangerous. And I think a lot of women, when they think of higher protein, they're thinking around that 100 to 120 grams of protein, we're not thinking 200 to 300 grams of protein, which our husbands might be eating. So no, a higher protein, maybe even if we just couch it in a higher protein diet, great way to think about this is one gram of protein per pound of body weight. So if you weigh 125 pounds, aiming for 125 grams is great. Some days you're going to hit that, some days you're not, but it's a really great, easy way of thinking about it, or aiming for about 30 grams per meal. And that's going to get you somewhere up until the 90 100. Now, for most people, that's a lot higher than when they're where they're at, but not really what we would consider a high protein diet. Now a lot of women in their 40s and 50s in the perimenopause and menopause stage went through the vegan and plant based diets of the 90s, 90s and the 2010s. So for them to then be eating animal protein at every meal feels like a really huge jump. So it's not so much that we're eating high protein diets, it's just we're coming from a real protein deficiency of the trends of the last decades. Okay. So what about red meat? There's a lot of conversation like, Oh, you know, I don't eat red meat. I should we avoid red meat? Again, that's going to come down to you. It depends. The two issues with red meat are the does it cause cancer and is it bad for our cholesterol? So in terms of cholesterol, I'm going to say probably not cholesterol in the diet doesn't really impact cholesterol in our blood. Again, a lot of the times I say for red meat and cholesterol, let's test it out. So we can see dips in we can see changes in our cholesterol panels within three months. So if I've got someone who has a real family history of cardiovascular disease, they're a little bit nervous, I'm like, All right, let's try red meat twice a week. Let's test your cholesterol levels. And in two to three months again, see what's happened. For most people, it's absolutely fine. Other people might be hyper responders. Then we might want to do maybe red meat once a week. It's about the quality of the red meat. So your grass fared steak is going to be a lot better than your hot dog that you're going to get at the ball game. What else are you eating things with? So again, with nutrition science, it's really, really hard because we're not there are so many different variables. So people that eat higher red meat diets might not be meeting as many vegetables. The cancer risk is there's lots of studies on both sides of the equation. But for me, I'm always like, if you're a little bit nervous about this, let's just do it once or twice a week, because red meat is a really great source of iron. A lot of women are iron deficient. It's a really great source of protein. It's a really great source of B vitamins and other things. So let's meet somewhere in the middle again, that nuance, that gray area. And let's think about the quality of that meat and how we're cooking it. If it's a slow cooked grass fed beef stew versus a hot dog on the grill, we're talking about two very different things. Okay, we're going to switch gears. And we're going to talk now about topical skincare versus internal skincare, and just some of the myths around both. So for topical skincare, I have spent so much money, so much money on serums and lotions and promises, you know, especially in the past, they used to be able to like put whatever they were on their label. Yeah, like, Oh my God, in my early 30s, I was just like, when you think you have wrinkles, but you realize when you're four years, you didn't really have a wrinkle. Yeah. But just like promises on like, this is going to like cure all your wrinkles, this is going to like lift, this is going to sculpt your face. Tell me a little bit about what you have learned. You've been in the beauty industry for a very long time. You work with L'Oreal and so many different people on what actually works for you. So tell me a little bit about topical skincare that is not worthwhile and topical skincare that's worthwhile. So my my area of expertise is the beauty from the inside out, but I'm very lucky to have friends in the beauty industry and beauty editors and top dermatologists and all of that kind of thing. So I learned from from that. I think if something is just like anything with health and wellness, if something's promising and a miracle result, it's probably not going to get it. You know, there's nothing that is actually going to turn back time. There is no it's not death becomes her. So we have to go exactly. Yes, there's you know, and great there's so much transparency around most people who's having faceless, etc, etc. But creams and serums and topicals can only do so much. Now that doesn't mean that they can't be incredibly powerful, that they're a great piece of our skincare routine. It's funny, I went to get a blowout today and I was talking to the both my the woman doing my hair and the person next to me about retinol. Again, I think a lot of it comes down to foundations and what works for you and what doesn't. So good foundations, we know SPF my God, I wish I hadn't done the sunbeds in my 20s. But a good SPF a good vitamin C really good nourishing moisturizer at night and eye cream. You know, find the brands that work for you work to your budget, that can be some really great budget buys and they can be some really great, really expensive buys. There are some creams and serums that come onto the market around that $800 price. I talked to one of my dermatologist friends, she's like, there is no cream or serum right now that is worth $800 that is going to do that, spend that on something else. Nothing is going to be a miracle. Find what works for you. And just because something says anti aging anti wrinkle firming, pumping, it might not be that for you. So for me, as you can see, I'm really pale retinol doesn't work for me. Retinol just makes me dry and scaly and it's not a good look. But a vitamin C fantastic, a really good rich moisturizer. Great. So it's really finding about what works for you and just knowing that, you know, there's no such thing as a miracle product. And then also, what are the companies that have been out there for a long time? I like to use, you know, brands like revision brands like skin suitable that have been there for a long time, lots of clinical studies. And then I also, this is kind of a by the by bit spend the money on things that stay on your skin for the longest. So we don't really need to be worrying like just get a nice body wash. Don't worry about that so much. But think about the lotion that's going on your skin. What ingredients does that have? Is that going to be beneficial for you? So think about where you spend your money as well. I love that you had, you know, you had written me some notes here before the podcast and you just talked about there's a lot of things that you can look up that have like studies on them. So if you're, should I do retinoids, right? Yeah, should I be doing this type of serum or antioxidant? And if there are things that have studies that just it's been proven like you can look, you can literally chat GPT this mess, yeah, to be like, okay, does topical hyaluronic acid actually work? Yeah, there's so much information and studies on it that yes, it does in fact have proof that it works. But when you wash it off, it goes away. Yeah, exactly. You can learn these things pretty easily before you go and spend a ton of money on different things. So I love that there's starting to be a lot of transparency because I do think the topical industry, while it can be great, you know, have some friends who have some incredible like med spas, they're so honest with me. So many things are like, here's the one brand that I like swear by all these other ones have just been a waste of money, you know, and they have no reason to tell me these different things because they look up, they learn all the studies and all the different things. So, you know, anybody listening who's investing a ton into topical, like just make sure that it's something that has a little proof behind it, or you might literally be wasting your money on hundreds and hundreds of dollars a month, if not thousands, I have friends who spend thousands of dollars a month on topical cream. So don't keep switching. Like just like anything just like supplements, just like diet, just like fitness, it does take a little while to see your results. So don't keep, you know, I see people with, you know, so so many products, I'm like, are you using anything, you know, consistently? So I think the consistency piece of the puzzle as well. But for me, it's all about, yep, topical skin care is great. But it's what you do from the inside out is the most important piece of the puzzle. Because it can only go so deep. Can any guy say deep? So let's talk about the, you know, there is a huge movement right now. Yeah, like literally when I had started creating Glossy number one, I had no idea what would be coming. I had a feeling that we were going to start really talking about just because with just with AI coming and everything that you can learn about everything. Yeah, like there is such a wave of different supplements and things being studied for your skin and your gut health for skin and how that's connected. And because I started to see this gut skin idea pop up, I was like, Oh, this is like people are going to start, they're going to get this, like it's gonna be ingestible beauty. I just felt like, Oh, my gosh, this is going to be so huge. And so it's like, I want to be on the front end of it, because I have always felt that way. But how can I make something that's easy for people who don't want to question it? So with that, now there's such a movement that in, you know, I believe also just introduce, introduce like a massive section in their store where it's kind of like ingestible beauty. Yeah, then it is the, you know, topical skincare and then it's the makeup saying like these are your three steps, like you kind of aren't skipping these steps anymore, because this is the trifecta of what, you know, quote unquote, like beauty is like to take care of your skin. So tell me a little bit about, because I know that you are beauty from the inside out. You are writing a book. Yeah, yours. Like this is your expertise. This is my jam. Yeah, this is your jam. Tell me, tell me about beauty from the inside out. Why you're so passionate. Yeah, it's interesting. So I first started getting into this in 2017. So I was working as a nutritionist at a high end health retreat. And one of our clients there, one of our guests was a dermatologist. And she came to me and she said, I love what you're talking, I love your approach, because I was really coming, we did everything from nutrition to sleep to lifestyle on that retreat. And she said, my patients are not getting the results that they want from the procedures that they're having, you know, they're having lasers, but the inflammation isn't going down because their diet is so bad. And this is a upper east side Manhattan practice, very high achieving, very busy women. And they're paying all this money for these treatments, but they're not getting the results that they wanted. That's frustrating for them for them. And for the doctor as well, because she's doing everything that she can. But if we're not thinking about the inside out piece of this puzzle, how does that affect the results that they're getting? And I was like, Yeah, that sounds amazing. And then had to dive head first into learning about all of this. Now this is back in 2017, no one was really talking about this. I remember magazine articles that I'd write back then 2017 2018 was like, the main question was, does what we eat really influence our health of our skin? The answer was he being yes. Now the conversation is, what are the best type of collagen peptides for skin? How do we reverse a zempic face? What type of vitamin C should I be taking? Should that be a capsule? So we've really got detailed into it. But back in 2017, Dr. Rusek and I first started, we were a little bit ahead of the game. Now what we see a lot with what's happening in the medical aesthetic space with things like sculpture and our bio stimulators is really are we giving our bodies the building blocks to make these new collagen to make this new elastin. So that's really where we've come to a big part of our practice has always been the gut health. It's always started with the gut, you aren't what you eat, you are what you absorb. Because if we've got clients coming to us or patients coming to us with acne or rosacea or lots of inflammation, that's all stemming from the gut. And any treatments that we're doing, topically, if we're stimulating anything, we want to be able to bring that inflammation down a lot quicker. So really a lot of our work starts from what's happening in the gut. Now, as you can imagine, that's quite a challenging conversation or it used to be a challenging conversation with our patients back then. Nowadays, people understand it a little bit better. But there's still a ways to go in terms of what is actually impactful for our skin for diet, nutrition, supplementation. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into, because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about, from what customers see to what they don't see, like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses, get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast. And for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between, choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees. And there's zero pressure from blackout and motorized options to classic shutters. Blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout, limited time offer rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stops thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. Choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in to create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. So something that's so popular right now for an alternative to filler is Sculptra. And there's a couple other things too that are out there and I'm doing them done them other things because I'm like, okay, I'm 44. I've lost a lot of like just volume in my face. I don't want to do filler, but I want to keep that like nice plump looks. And number one, I absolutely am obsessed with obviously my product. Number two, when we're doing things like Sculptra and other things that we're spending a lot of money on for these natural fillers, you know, you had chatted with me about the importance of making sure that we support that with our nutrition because you could be spending all of this money on Sculptra, which can be thousands and thousands of dollars. It's expensive, which I'll have you just explain what it is quickly for people as well. What kind of what Sculptra is? Yeah, yeah, okay, just a general, a general idea. So people kind of understand. But we have to be supporting it with our nutrition. Otherwise, it's kind of going to waste a little bit. Like there's ways to really get the maximum benefits on it. So let's chat about that. Yeah. So Sculptra, we have a number of these bio stimulatory fillers. So they're not like our hyaluronic acid fillers that just kind of go in the skin and sit there. What these new types of fillers do is that they actually tell ourselves to regenerate. So it's kind of switching on that little signal to say, Okay, I want you to make more collagen now. Fantastic. So it gives a lot more natural and long lasting look. So you have a couple of sessions of these, and they last two to three years. But if we're not giving our body the building blocks to make new collagen, we're essentially wasting our money. So we're switching on the signals to make this new collagen. But if we're not getting that in from our diet and from our supplementation, we're not going to see the best results. So when we pair those results, when we pair a collagen maxing diet with these new types of fillers, that's when we're going to get the best results. And what are the things we want to pair them with? Yeah, it's a number one protein. So we have to think about again, we break these things down into our peptide chains and to our amino acid chains, we're getting protein in the diet, we have enough protein, our body's going to say great, I've got that protein in, let me take those amino acids and let me put that into the skin. So number one, collagen peptides, again, there's a lot of pushback on collagen peptides, we do have clinical evidence that they do help with fine lines and wrinkles. So if we want to make more collagen in our skin, it makes sense to add more collagen in our diet. So we can do that through collagen peptide. We can also do that through something like bone broth. So you know, if we're having bone broth a few times a week and collagen peptides every day, fantastic. And then the other parts are vitamin C. So vitamin C is an essential cofactor for collagen formation. So making sure that we're getting vitamin C. Personally, I do, I like a liposomal or a powdered vitamin C. So if you're taking those big hard vitamin C capsules, you're probably not going to get a lot out of them. So a liposomal or a powdered is a really good one. And then zinc is also a really essential cofactor for collagen production. Okay, we love this because we have zinc, we have vitamin C, we have hyaluronic acid. Yes, we don't have the collagen in there. But what's it do you have a collagen that you love? There is a company called Arjeaux-Natter that have a marine collagen and pearl powder. It's really nice. It's really expensive. But that one's very well absorbed by the body and the pearl powder. I feel like it gives my skin a glow. I don't know. So I really like that one. But we don't have to get everything from one supplement. And I think that's something again that we also need to think about is if a supplement has too many ingredients, is there enough of any of those ingredients for it to be efficacious? This is a huge conversation because I would love to put everything in glossy. But we no one would buy it if it was that expensive. And so if there is everything in a powder that you're looking at, it should be so insanely high priced. Because it costs so much money to get good ingredients. And so that's why we went with just a few key ingredients for your skin so that we could, number one, people would afford it. And so that we could put the amounts in there that actually made a difference. So that's what we looked at when we were making this product was, okay, if there's hyaluronic acid in there, what have the studies been based on? Like what amount? Okay, with the probiotic, what amount had the studies been based on? And you know, if there's vitamin C in there, okay, well, how much of this are they actually going to need in order to make a difference? So that was huge for us because we actually started making this in a time where there were some people who have, there's companies that are huge out there that you definitely know if I name drop them. And maybe you take them that were under fire because they have so many things in them. They claim to be like an all in one for you. This is all you need, almost 100 ingredients and some things. And in order to do that, that must be like a fairy dusting. You would have to take like 50 packets a day to get the amount that they're claiming for the claims. So I think that's something really important to look at is like, what are the amounts? If it's saying it does everything, is there enough in there to even do anything? Right? Yeah, I think the amount needed to be efficacious to actually create a change in the body as showed by clinical studies. We don't see that in a lot of these big, big name, big, big marketing budget supplements. Unfortunately, and I know we're both thinking of exactly the same. We are. And there's another one that I actually I like. But I had ordered a bunch of boxes of it. And I was looking at the serving size and it was for a day. Yeah. I was like, okay, well, that's a really expensive, right? This is going to be a really expensive subscription. Like we just went from, you know, like $60 a box to now needing four boxes for the month. And then you have to remember to take that four times a day. And most people are not doing that. So then you're not getting it in the right amounts. And you're kind of wasting your money. Yeah, it's a crazy I was just having this moment because obviously I'm now in this supplement industry. I'm like, it's hard to communicate this to the customer. Yeah, because the customer still wants it to kind of do everything for a low price. Yeah, it's just like, well, they're kind of wasting their money. So you do have to be you have to kind of get educated. Well, it's not kind of you need to get educated around what you're looking at. And I think, you know, if you're going to spend money on the Sculptra, if you're going to spend money on that, you want it to be working. Yes, this you guys, this is like thousands of dollars women are starting to spend on these things. So you can just get such a better result if you're supporting it. So I love I love knowing like this is so powerful for me because I am doing those things. Yeah, oh my gosh, if I've been wasting my money, but thank God, I've been I've been drinking glossy, I just need to add a really great collagen. Yeah. So okay, we love this. Let's talk about longevity of results. And I know we kind of just talked about this. But what would you say for skin is like your formula of like, this is what I'm going to be doing all the time for the skin internally. Higher protein diet, polyphenols, I know we touched upon this, but polyphenols, antioxidants, you know, what so for skin because we touched on that for other things, but for skin, let's go 100% So what antioxidants do is that they stop oxidative stress or they help reduce or prevent oxidative stress. So that's a really big part of premature skin aging and also inflammation. So I'm going to be thinking about, well, let me go back to the start. Gut health number one, if I want to lower my inflammation, if I want to manage my inflammation, if I want to make sure that I'm absorbing all of the nutrients from my foods to get to my skin, I'm going to be thinking about gut health. I'm going to be thinking about higher protein diet because I want to give my body the building blocks to make collagen and elastin. And also facial muscle as well. This is a really interesting one. Something that I've been talking about some of the medical advisory boards that I work with is that if we're thinking about now kind of jumping around, but we're thinking about GLP use and we're thinking about rapid weight loss and we're losing muscle mass as well. It's really hard to put muscle mass back in the face. We know that we can squat, we can lunge, we can do all of those things to put the muscles back in our butt. Putting muscle back into our face is really, really challenging. So I want to make sure that I'm keeping those muscles in my face so I'm going to have a higher protein diet. Then I swear by collagen. I think collagen is fantastic. I'm always going to be taking collagen. Vitamin C is something I'm always going to be taking just for the collagen production, but also because it's an antioxidant. I'm always going to do a probiotic for my skin. I'm always going to stay hydrated. I think something that is not hyaluronic acid is a really great one. I actually prefer hyaluronic acid serum. I do occasionally when I remember, but I take a hyaluronic acid in Glossy. Staying hydrated is always going to be a really big important one. I think also people don't understand the impacts of stress on our face until I give them the example of think about Barak Obama when he first went into office, when he came out of office. President's age very, very quickly. It's insane. It's insane. The impact that stress has on your face because when we have really, really high cortisol that can break down the collagen of the lastin fibres, stress is a really big one as well. We all know people who look older after they've been through stressful periods. So managing your stress is just as important. For anyone listening, can you just explain the difference between...  topical skincare, and what you feel so strongly about what we've been talking about internally. Yeah, so the close and the title is topical. So it's only going to go a few cells deep. So we know that collagen in skincare products doesn't actually help you produce collagen on that deep cellular level. So if we want to rebuild our collagen, we want to rebuild our lats and we're doing that from the inside out. Creams and serums and topicals are going to help with the appearance of our skin, but they're not going to be able to help benefit our skin on that deep structural level as our diet and supplementation can. Okay, so I want to do a round of smash or pass with you. I think I know this first one, but collagen. Smash. Creatine. Smash. Okay, why? We have a lot of clinical studies on creatine. We know how beneficial it is for preserving and maintaining and helping to create the muscle mass. It's also really beneficial for brain health. So creatine is definitely my go-to for pretty much everybody, but definitely women over 40. And does creatine do anything for skin? Do you know or not? Here's the thing for skin. There's never as much clinical research on that, but yes, we do know. We have to think about the composition of all of ourselves. Yes, we do know that creatine is beneficial for skin as well. I'm excited as we start. I think we're going to see so many studies in the next couple of years on everything for skin. So I'm excited about that. Yeah. I think that's a watch the space. Yeah, definitely. I'm excited about creatine. I would love to make a creatine. So there you go. Okay, protein, but from like popcorn, cookies, cereal, like everything that's now Starbucks has a new protein foam. Yeah. So protein, like protein popcorn, cookies, cereal, et cetera. Sorry, Kardashians, but it's going to be a pass just because of let's get our protein from good real food sources. Now, okay, here's the thing. Again, a lot of this is it depends. If you're having 100 grams of protein from real food sources, and you want to have a bag of whichever Kardashian it is protein popcorn, that's fine. If however, you're avoiding your chicken breast, your salmon, your turkey breast, your tofu, your quinoa, because you just want to go and eat basically processed food with added poor quality protein powder, then it's definitely going to be a pass. You're going to be not looking like you want to look. You're not going to be looking like you look. All right, weighted vest. Smash, but just know that they shouldn't be your only exercise routine. It's not going to it's not, you know, yes, wouldn't it be wonderful if we could just put on a weighted vest and never have to go to the gym? It doesn't work like that. It doesn't create the same physiological response. Yeah, it's interesting. There's a world out there called rucking and that's like where you really put weight on. That's like kind of like 15 pound 20. You want to be duplicating almost like what they do in the army, you know, when you're carrying like a big pack or people who, you know, climb mountains and all the things. Now, rucking, I absolutely can get behind. Yeah, that is hard core. Yeah, that is like, that is the such a workout. You guys have literally no idea. I used to ruck with like a 40 pound on my back and it's like even two miles, you're like dying. Yeah. But with that said, weighted vest. Yes, I can sort of see the benefits. I don't know how I feel. Yeah, I don't know how I feel. They do have, you know, they have some benefits. But again, let's make it that last one to two percent of what you're doing. Right. It's not going to, it's never going to replace getting in the gym and squatting and lunging and rowing and bench pressing and pull ups and all of those exercises. I know we always want to find a way out of doing that. But nothing is going to replace that. I agree. There is nothing like making sure you get a workout in with weights like heavy weights. It's good. All right, probiotics for skincare. Smash, smash, smash. Okay, smash, smash because gut health, gut skin, everything we talked about connected. But also our skin has a microbiome. I mean, that's a whole other conversation, but our skin has a microbiome. If we don't look after our skin microbiome, our skin can look dull and dry and dehydrated. So probiotics for gut health and for skin health. Okay. Intermittent fasting. Pass. I prefer time restricted eating and eating in line with our circadian rhythms. Okay. And you had mentioned this kind of like stopping eating at more like a five 30 or six and trying to get that window in so that you can get that food in the morning for yourself. Yes. And having good enough blood sugar balance that you don't need to eat every two to three hours. Okay. Okay. I'm nervous about this one. Masha. Smash. Great. Again, nothing is a, you know, if you're doing everything else wrong and only having matcha, then okay, we're going to have to have a conversation. But no, really, really full of it's a really great source of polyphenols, which, you know, polyphenols are my thing. Okay, you don't know this one is coming, but whole milk. Whole milk. I'm not anti dairy. Great. So you can keep having that. I'm like, I get my matcha with whole milk. Yeah. I'm not, you know, again, it depends. I sound like a stuck record, but it depends. Now, if I've got a client who really needs to lose some weight for metabolic health reasons, and I'm probably going to say, let's not do a whole milk, let's do a skimmed or a 1%, but then someone might be like, well, that is going to spike your blood sugar. It's going to cause digestive intolerances. So there's a milk out there for everybody. And there really is now. There's literally a milk for everyone. I'm like, do you want cashew? Do you want almond? Do you want like, what would you like? It's, you can milk everything. You can milk everything. You certainly can. Okay. Red light therapy. Smash. Okay. Cold plunging. Pass most of the time. Okay. Again, it's a real stress around the body. And so unless you're like, for me, I hate it. Yeah. Unless you're like super chilled out, no stress. I just don't think it is necessary for the benefits it's going to get. Literally super chilled out. Yeah. Okay. What is sleep maxing? So sleep maxing, really what we talked about in terms of everything that we talked about circadian rhythms, not having screens in the bedroom, freezing cold, eye masks, earplugs, mouth tape, the whole thing. So I'm a yes for sleep maxing. Okay. You are a smash for sleep maxing. All right. Okay, wait, what is fiber maxing? Basically just eating a lot, a lot of fiber. It's again, it's trending. Do we want to eat more fiber? Yes, let's get it from fruits and vegetables, you know, seven to eight servings a day. All of the fiber supplements can actually cause more digestive issues than be beneficial. So let's get our fiber from fruits and vegetables, but let's sure we're making, we'll be able to digest those. Let's make sure our gut health is good. So I'm probably in a pass for fiber maxing. Okay. Collagen maxing. Yes. So like all over that. Like doing a ton of it. Like so not just taking a ton of collagen peptides, but doing all of the things that we can support our collagen peptides. So extra vitamin C, red light therapy, higher protein diets, zinc, magnesium, etc. etc. Okay. Caster oil packs. Pass. How come? It's not enough clinical science behind it. Okay. I mean, if it makes you feel good, here's the thing for me with a trend, if it's not harmful and it makes you feel good, go for it. Isn't there a trend castor oil like in your belly button? Yeah. What is that? Is that a pass? It's a pass. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I think it's an aerobatic practice. It's not something I know enough about, but I just cannot figure out the mechanism of all of these miraculous benefits that putting a tiny bit of castor oil in your belly button. I could do. I mean, it might feel nice, but okay. I'm not sure if you know about this one. Oil pulling. For your teeth? Yeah. I'm going to say smash. I have actually talked to my dentist about this. I just don't have time to do it. Yeah, exactly. But if you do go for it. Yeah. All right. Bone broth. Smash. Okay. Serums. It depends if it's a good one. You know, serums can be everything from a vitamin C to a hyaluronic acid. So if you've got the foundations on, then I'm going to say smash. Okay. Ingestible hyaluronic acid. Smash. All right. Like the new skims like face bra, holding everything up. Pass. It may, you know, if you have a, let's say you wear one overnight and you have a photo shoot in the morning, it might give you very temporary benefits, but nothing is going to give you long term lifted in that way. It's like those girdles that people wear. I'm like the waist trainers. The waist trainers. Yeah. You're like, it's great. That might last for a minute. Yep. And then it's going to go right back out. So enjoy that brief amount of time. Gua Sha. Smash if you have time. Okay. I think just a really good facial massage can be great. I personally have a little red light device that like vibrates and is warm and is red light that you can do the same kind of thing with. So that's what I do. I don't have time for all of that in the morning. Yeah. Facial ice baths. It's going to give you some, let's say toning and depuffing. So yeah, smash if you have time. Like none of these things, so many of these things don't have long term benefits. What about the electrical current? So I have asked all of my dermatologists and plastic surgeon friends and they say, nope, doesn't work whatsoever. I have one and I think it works. Interesting. So, you know, so there's always a, if it works for you, then go for it. Okay. So you like to electrocute yourself, but there's no science behind it. But I think that it works for me. Yeah. Okay. Like face masks. A lot of people spend money on the, you know, face mask eye, the under eye patches. What do we think of those? They're great short term. Okay. So they're going to hydrate, they're going to depuff, they're going to get rid of fine lines of wrinkles, but in a short term. Now they will help reduce moisture loss over the long term. If we're, you know, we want to be moisturizing day in, day out twice a day. But yeah, great for short term. But again, long term is about consistency. It's about inside out. It's about doing the foundations, right? Okay. Well, I'm so excited that you came on the show and give us all of your info. This was so much fun. Where can people find you and work with you if they're interested? Yeah, come over and find me on Instagram at Jennifer Hanway. That's the best place to find me. I also have a podcast, The Science of Stunning, but connect with me there or connect with me at JenniferHanway.com. I mean, who doesn't want to listen to the science of stunning? Right. Yeah. So that's all info, just on beauty from the inside out. It's the deep dive into all of the things that we've talked about today. And I get some of my great beauty editor and dermatologist friends on there. So yeah, it's just a place to come and hang out and talk all things wellness and beauty nutrition. So fun. And I know you have so many things in the future that you are working on for all of us that I'm so excited about. And you guys definitely go and check out the show notes because I've linked everything up where you can find the podcast, you can find her, you can go follow. And I'm so grateful for all of you. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.