Hey everyone, I'm Luri Harter and this is your spot to reconnect to your soul and get the tips and inspiration you need to fall in love with your life. So, I'm going to talk to you today about being authentic. I know that word gets thrown around all of the time, be authentic. But what does that actually mean? And I want you guys to understand that being authentic and being in alignment with who you truly know you are supposed to be makes your life so much easier. So how on earth do we do that? Well, I think what happens is when we are growing up, dependent upon the circles we're around, dependent upon the beliefs of the people that we're around, we tend to um we tend to go on a path or form our lives or plan our lives in a way that we think the people in our lives would be happy with. So, what does success mean to you? What does success mean to the people around you? And what do you think you should be doing that is ultimately going to give you what you think you want? Whether that's um happiness or success or you're finally going to have that title where you feel significant when you go and introduce yourself at a party or you introduce yourself to people. But a lot of times what can happen is when we chase that, we feel so out of alignment and life feels hard. We're always tired. We don't quite feel happy even though we should because this is what we thought we wanted. And most often we wind up in a space where we have just basically um put ourselves in a position of thinking that we've reached that high point because we got that title or we finally are in that role that we thought would bring us happiness and all of a sudden we feel so empty and so blue because if this didn't bring us happiness then oh my god what will. So, something that I want you guys to do is to write down what you think is going to bring you happiness and then write down what you think um people want your life to look like, the people in your life, what you think you should be doing. So, write this all down in one column. What do you think is going to bring you happiness? What do you think you should be doing? What title do you think you should have? And then what I want you to do in a separate column is write down what actually makes you happy. So if you had a ton of spare time, what would you actually be doing with it? And I want you to really look at the differences in those two things. Are they aligned at all? Are you finding any enjoyment in your daily life or in the things that you're already doing? And is there a way that you can take the things that you enjoy doing, maybe it's making people laugh, maybe it's traveling, maybe it's writing, and can you infuse it into maybe the job that you have now, or do you need to start paying more attention at what's making you happy and just making sure you're doing that more often and making time for it? So once you start making time for it, even while you have this other job that's not making you happy, what can happen is number one, you start getting happier because you're doing this every single week. So you're actually doing the things that make you happy. Number two, when you do them often enough, you can often start to open up the your creative capacity because now you're happy to see how maybe you could do this as a career or a hobby. And maybe that hobby could lead to you getting paid, right? Maybe you could do it very very part-time in the beginning. And maybe you love it so much that you can monetize it and offer services so that you have this small side business. And then maybe, just maybe, if you really focus that can open up and turn into a full-blown business later that later you can leave that job that you don't love. So these are just different ideas of how many people have started to move into their passion. I'm not saying leave your job tomorrow because as I was turning my hobby of um wanting to help people and mindfulness and wanting to do events and wanting to do um different, you know, weekend retreats and things like that, I still had this other job on the side. And it wasn't until all of this took over that I said, "Okay, maybe I could let this one go. Maybe I could let this other one go." So, I want you to know that you're never ever stuck and that you can always start creating your happiness now. It doesn't mean that it has to be full-blown and you have to leave tomorrow or you have to do everything 100%. It just means what can you do this week that actually makes you happy? Where could you make sure that you're actually scheduling it in and that you're in alignment with who you really really know that you are inside? So, are you blocking that authentic part of yourself that loves to write? Are you blocking that authentic part of yourself that loves to play music, loves to make people laugh, loves to to dance, whatever that is? How can you do more of it and stop denying that authentic part of you and actually show people who you really are? So you guys, I want you to write those two columns. Just see what comes up. Comment below. Um, I love to be able to see what's coming up for you guys so that I can talk to you exactly where you're at. I know that this is a good exercise even for me to do in my life. Even though I am living in my dream position, doing what I love, we change. We're always constantly changing. My version of happiness can change next month as to what I want or following my curiosity. So, this is a really important exercise to always come back to. So, like I said, comment below, talk to the people above you on the comments. Uh, go back to loriehearter.com. And of course, I'd love for you to check out my podcast, earnyouhappy.com, where I have guests come on and talk all about this. So, until next time, take care. See you soon. Tingong tonging ting. Okay, are you ready? Hey everyone, welcome back. And wait, that's the podcast.