 it is never too late to build an email list. Two years is gonna go by, and you're gonna wish that you started today. Just the fact that it is a communication channel that you actually own. You're not dealing with algorithms, or if people are taking an Instagram hiatus or anything like that, utilizing manychart is a great way to do so, because it just streamlines the process. It's a domino for everything you're doing. Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap I think so many of you have heard of many chat and if you have not, maybe you have just randomly heard of the word floating around. But I personally can't imagine life without it anymore. I mean, until something else comes along. So I'm very excited to chat with you today because you have helped us with all of our or our many chat strategies. And you are kind of the many chat girl. So we're going to dive in. But first of all, I would love to know if you could explain to everybody kind of what you do and what got you in so deeply into many chat. Yeah, so I am a social media strategist and content creator. I work with online businesses and entrepreneurs to ultimately help them turn their followers into customers through content and many chat. And I love that I have my hands in both of those because they really kind of have this dance with one another. I was literally talking about this with someone today. If your content is not good, it doesn't matter how great your many chat innovations are because no one's going through them. And vice versa, if you have amazing content and you're getting thousands and thousands of views, let's turn that into something that's actually profitable for your business or your brand. So I kind of fell into the world of many chat. My background, I worked behind the scenes at a pretty big online business. We sort of started implementing it. I think ironically I was not in the meeting. It was discussed in and saw it in like notes and I was like, what's that? I'm definitely someone where I'm down to experiment. Let's try new things. Opened the can of worms and saw how incredibly beneficial it is. Just time saving alone. Like you said, I can't imagine with someone who has a larger account trying to manually answer the same questions over and over and over again. Like that is such a time suck. So just the sheer amount of manual work that was taken off their plate with us implementing it. And then on the flip side, all the incredible business opportunities and advantages that come with adding it to your strategy. And so when I saw how big of an opportunity it can be for online businesses and also how there's not a ton of people operating in the space or education and information about it. I was like, well, I want to dig into this and I want to figure out how to make it more accessible, how to have more conversations about it and how to empower business owners to really utilize it and implement it into their strategy. Okay, I love it. For anybody listening who doesn't fully understand how it works or what it is, like I want the most basic year on Instagram. Here's what this looks like. And here's what you're getting yourself into. Yes. So this is how I explain it specifically to my parents. If you see the caption, right? I'm like, you guys will get this. If you see the caption and it says, comment word, whatever that word is, and I will send you something. And when you comment that word, it automatically DMs you. They are using chat marketing and I use them interchangeably, but many chat is basically like the biggest player in the space, an automation tool that they utilize to do that. So I always make the distinction that it's if it automatically happens because I have had business owners who didn't realize there was a tool to do it and they were manually DMing every single person that commented that word. So if it happens like literally instantaneously, they are using any chat. Okay, I love this and I have been an automated person. I mean, before many chat and it is like extremely time consuming. And I think you just you're missing so much of what many chat can do. So let's start there as well. So what people don't realize is yes, it's going to, you know, send you something. Let's talk about what that something could be. Let's use a few examples for people. Yeah. Then what we're going to do is I would love for you to kind of walk us through how in depth that can actually get because I want people to understand if they're not using this they're leaving so much money on the table. Absolutely. So a bare bones kind of entry into the world of many chat is going to be a replacement for sending someone to the link in your bio. So previously we would every single post was like check the link in my bio for whatever it is. And if you think about yourself as a consumer, I do not personally remember the last time I saw something went over to their profile clicked the link in bio and like actually went through with the action. So the success rate of that is basically non existent. So utilizing many chat eliminates all of those steps on the user end. So we can send them links to a tiny offer. We can send them links to your podcast episode. It's basically a really great way to eliminate the leg work on the user side and get them exactly what they're looking for. So bare bones. It's a really easy way to send people the links to what they're looking for and it can vary. You can use this with online businesses with digital products. A lot of creators are using it with shop my links or like to know it to monetize their content more easily. And then from there it only gets more and more advanced and exciting and that's where I always try to toe the line with those who are looking to add it to their strategy of you do not need to be operating in the same capacity as like a seven eight million dollar business is you can figure out what your strategy looks like for your own account in your own just team but we can utilize it for lead generation. So grabbing emails directly on Instagram. We can send individuals through quizzes and then populate the information we are receiving about then into your CRM platform or your email marketing platform. Yeah it's very much more than ever we have the option to be like what do we want to do or what information do we want to gather and let's do something to do that. I love it. So I'm just going to give some examples for people who follow me and listen to the podcast so they can know and they can kind of go learn as well by looking back through some of my content. I use it for what you said something as basic as shop my whenever people ask for links. Now I know if I'm about to post a photo where I went to a wedding or I'm super dressed up I'm like I know people are going to want this outfit. Let me upload it really quick or want to know details about it. And then I'm like and it's awesome because I can make some extra cash from it on shop my that's a really really easy app to use. So I literally use it for shop my so hey you know and on the bottom of the photo that I upload about the event or whatever it's like comment shop my if you want all the links to my outfits. Awesome. Sometimes I wake up and it's like hey you just made this money and you made that money and like this is so great. It's like the little little wins that you can stack and it was not hard at all. And then one of the main things that I'm using it for right now is obviously list building. So you guys it is never too late to build an email list if you feel like it's too late it's not too late and you should be doing it in the email list or a text list. And we do that through different opt-in so if you go to my page you'll see me say comment playbook if you want to learn about how my husband and I work together and we have you know had this great marriage for 20 years and all the different tools that we use to go on money dates and future planning and all of the things so there's one opt-in then we have other opt-ins for our mentor collective mastermind then we have opt-ins for our VIP weekend. So there's so many different things that we have going on that. People don't realize and you're not going to build this all at once this definitely took some time but I will say Maddie it's literally it's not as hard as people think especially if they get help on it. You can start building an email list and collecting emails because let's just also real quick talk about the importance of that. And having people on a list because I think people can forget I know so many people listening know it's very important but I think it's never been more important to make sure you're capturing people because the algorithm is consistently changing. So tell me a little bit about just your thoughts on on still creating email list text lists and why. Oh absolutely I think it's interesting as someone who spends a ton of time on tick tock specifically how everyone on tick tock was having that conversation that I think business owners are just a little bit more strategic about but. Oh my gosh this app is going to go away I have an audience of a million people how am I going to get in contact with those million people come tomorrow if this platform disappears so I think bare bones forget you know the conversion rates on email versus social media just the fact that it is a communication channel that you actually own you own the frequency in which you can get in front of people you're not dealing with algorithms or if people are taking an Instagram hiatus or anything like that like you own it. And down the line there's also leverage elements with it as well like you could get your email list acquired and those kinds of things but you definitely want to be moving your audience over to your email list and utilizing many chat is a great way to do so because it just streamlines the process we're able to essentially have a conversation right in Instagram DMs we grab their email and then on the back end all of that information is sent over to your email marketing platform of choice and kind of like you were saying like learning along the way I feel like as you're listening to this episode go over to Lori's Instagram and find play I think I know playbook is one of them but find one of those automations and send yourself through it so you can visually see. What that looks like and get that experience as a user. And I think one of the. We'll talk about this we're going to dive deeper to this you guys but one of the mistakes that I used to make was I'm like. I am a creative so I like to be in everything and I was like wouldn't it be fun to like have people opt in for this cocktail recipe that I made and then. And then you know you send an opt in for cocktail recipes or fun things in my life or just shot my links or whatever you're collecting data on people for for you know fun things that don't correlate with your offer. So then all of a sudden when you email them something about joining our mentor collective mastermind they're like what the hell is this I'm going to opt out or I'm irritated because all they wanted was you know a sourdough recipe or a cocktail recipe from me so that's really interesting we'll dive into like the do's and don'ts. Of different things so first of all let's start off with like a ton of business owners feel intimidated by the shift toward video content across platforms what practical advice do you have for those who are. Are camera shy they're not really loving making content but they know that they need to start really showing up because like you said. Content like you can have all the many chat strategies in the world but if your content is off or it's like not hitting it's not going to work so what do you say to those people who are like. Oh God I have to start showing up. Yeah I think first and foremost acknowledging that there is a level of discomfort. It feels weird if you are not someone who naturally enjoys it. Just kind of stating like this feels uncomfortable. Yeah. Knowing that okay let's set some systems in place and I think that one of the biggest sort of misconceptions people have is they view a lot of these front facing online businesses where it's maybe an individual or it's a couple as like. This couple does it all they come up with the concept they record it they edit it they whatever it is and more often than not there's a team behind the scenes orchestrating a lot of things so I think. Clue yourself into that is also helpful as you venture in because it's easy to compare your day one to their day. 600 with a team of three behind them that being said I do think a lot of those people who operate at that capacity have really great systems and that can look like scripting out your content. So if you have a couple of days with jump cuts and pacing there's no need and you really should not please ever post a video of you talking to camera straight through no cuts whatsoever and cuts allow us to I flubbed that word or you know I took a long time to get to the point let me retake that sentence and kind of cut together the best overall video. I think that's really important allowing yourself jump cuts real quick on that one. What's your favorite software for that. Well it used to be cap cut but we had some issues with like right them owning rights to your footage at the moment. So I like final cut on computer I have not ventured into Da Vinci a lot of people like Da Vinci and then the phone one that I have been using is VN. It is a little bit of a learning curve of once you've been utilizing something for so long kind of having to jump into something new. But those are all great. A lot of people also like captions. I think it's captions AI that's a good one or even Instagram released edits which is kind of like their competitor to cap cut. People are using. Okay. Yeah so don't be afraid to like chop things up. I always say like dead space is the opportunity for someone to scroll away. So even if it feels like it's clipping along that's not necessarily a bad thing. I even speed my nap like actually just go up like point one so it's faster. Oh I joke sometimes I'm like how fast can we turn it up before the chipmunk voice exactly because people are also going to watch it on 2X anyway. The that ties into the last tip that I always whenever I'm like coaching someone with talking head content we kind of do the whole filming process we finish it. And then I'm always like OK let's do it one more time a little bit faster with a little more energy because it's like you've got the main take out like you know a take exists that's good. Now let's just do it one more time. Loosen up a little bit have a little bit more energy and speed and normally that's the best one just because it kind of moves along a little bit quicker. I think one of the things in the beginning too because I'm really I'm actually working on talking head content right now and it's it's it's challenging it takes time to get good. And I think you have to give yourself grace because I think you're like oh this month I should have it nailed after trying it for a few weeks in a row. It does not feel that way at all. And kind of like you said I think it's like setting this expectation for me because in order to get a really good cut. It does take doing it like three to four times through the script. And so I script everything out I use teleprompter. In the more that you do it the more you do feel like you can add energy to it you could go off script a little bit if you start to actually know what the script is you can say it in a way that feels way more authentic to your tone and your voice is really tough. You're not just sitting there reading it. So I do think like understanding that the first three to six months of especially talking head is going to feel really rough like it's not going to be fun. It's like that I did my my filming days usually on like Mondays and Tuesdays and there's more resistance on Mondays and Tuesdays like it is like I'll have from like 12 to four and I'll like maybe start filming at three because I'm in pain and I'm like touching up the screen and like it's quite crazy watching myself struggle like you know you have those out of body experiences watching yourself struggle procrastinate resistance like how this feels to me so if anybody's listening I can't remember what they call it but there's something with quote unquote artists now that I'm calling myself an artist because I'm doing a talking head thing but anything creative like this. Okay we'll call ourselves that she shook her finger. So I have that with creators when people are like I'm not a creator and I'm like well if you create content like you're a creator so you're a artist. Okay we're creating guys so we're creators. But it is like you are facing off with yourself. So know that everything she is saying and that we're saying if you want to get good content it feels like a face off for sometimes a couple years and then guess what the algorithm changes and you're in another face off trying to figure it out all over again. So you know I think the reward is so big though the reward can be so big on social and I think that's what we're forgetting is the reward with many chat reward with showing up authentically like it's it's not only game changing it's like we'll change your bank account in your life so this stuff is so worth it so anything else on showing up authentically. I think the other thing is as you venture into it almost taking notes of like it is getting easier like I'd be interested in you saying like oh like I presented it's so tricky like I do think you have to have those moments where you're like oh wow a month ago or four months ago I had to script out and read every single line and now I can like glance and deliver something so noting your process and progress that you're making. When it comes to authenticity I think really trying to imagine the camera as an actual person you're talking to because we can get into that like now I'm on camera and I am becoming like a news reporter and or like using your phone voice yeah I'm I totally have a phone voice 100% but thinking about it as like your friend or someone who you know you're chatting with on the street because I think when you are consuming. You can feel that shift between someone who's like presenting at you and someone who's inviting you into their world and letting you get to know them because at the end of the day you're making this talking head content because you want to build that bond and you want them to like you and this world and ecosystem you're building so you want it to feel as close to who you actually are in your day to day life as well. Okay love this so any tips on actually creating like we're saying scripts right now and some people are like what the hell do you mean like where where would I even start so maybe choose a business and be some examples of what some short like talking head content could be or content for them. Yeah so let's pretend that for me I'm going to make a video on the three biggest mistakes I see business owners make when they're making many chat automations and so when I go to create content. I'm a big like the content calendar rules everything but with each piece of content that's going out I always write out at least one hook idea. Maybe two. So your hook is going to be that initial. Well I'm a firm believer in it. It's a three part hook we have what we're you know saying what they're hearing the audio hook we've got a visual text on screen hook so we're going to want that to be different than what we're saying because it gives us another opportunity to peak their interest. And then we also have the visual hook so video wise what's happening in the screen. And you can play it like video hook you can play around with a lot of different things you'll notice people will do movement they might wear a certain color. We love work creatures of habit if you think about it so sometimes it's someone has created a series. I really try to kind of get them to create in the same capacity every single time. So we get that recognition so maybe it's like I always have my purple polka dot wallpaper behind me and that almost becomes the visual recognition of like oh that's so and so there's the wallpaper that I recognize every single time. So that's the hook and you want to make sure you've got a really strong hook because it doesn't matter how great the rest of your video is if someone scrolls second one. So we want them to hear the hook and keep watching the video. So that's first and foremost probably the most important part to think about as you are crafting this script and kind of writing things out for yourself. From there it's kind of creators choice some people really like every single thing written out like they want a new sentence they want to know all the sentences and exactly like the points they're going to hit. Other people prefer like OK mistake one is this mistake to is this mistake three is this and I'm just sort of going to riff as I'm filming and cut it up in post production. So as you are venturing into this new world I would try out both and see which one feels more natural because you could script everything out and then have the realization of wow I sound like a robot and really I just need to be reminded what I'm going to talk about and then I'm just having a casual conversation. And then the last thing is the hook and that's another where another thing with clients where I'm always like you've got to give me something to finish it off and ultimately say like what do we want people what action do we want people to take at the end of it or what's the take away. And don't be afraid to actually tell people what you want them to do. I personally saw such a breakthrough in my content when I started verbally saying if you like X Y or Z. Make sure you're following me because I share those things. I think we kind of assume people will jump to that conclusion of like oh I like this video it's helpful like I should follow. But in reality we need to tell people exactly the action we want them to take so don't be afraid to say if you found this helpful like let me know what your biggest breakthrough was in the comments and make sure to follow for you know the other three mistakes I see people make or something like that. Yeah I never think anything of that when people say it I'm not like you or ever like it doesn't even hit me I'm like oh cool this is what she does it's almost like saying a and this is what I do you know without having to say. I think we maybe have a little bit of this like icky factor of being like asking people to follow us. Yeah but I think if you you know at your core of your content is like I'm providing value like I'm a resource to you. You should follow me because I put a lot of effort and I give a lot of great take aways. So it's sort of a win win situation and we kind of just have to get over the little discomfort that comes up with being like hey follow me. Totally. Yeah and I actually I think it's a service for the person watching if they're looking for more content like what you're doing it's like oh you do this all the time thank you so much. So I love that. Okay so you've helped a ton of people set up their many chat strategy but what do you think is the like when when you see this what are the most common mistakes that you see business owners making when they're doing it their self and like doing all their automation their self and how do you think that's costing them. Yeah so I think their bones is getting organized from the beginning there's often that feeling of like oh I'm so excited I'm trying this new thing and a big mistake I see with accounts of all differing sizes is not making a running list of your many chat triggers you're utilizing. So I have an automation that's sending this person to here here is the word because what happens and what I've had to kind of deal with with different clients is I get a message hey this is firing and they're being sent here and then we have to play a game of detective to figure out what of their thousands of automations is doing that and so if they have a database that's just like oh here's the word here's what it's sending them to. That is going to save you so much time and effort as you scale and grow because ultimately like that's the goal we're working towards so let's set ourselves up for success from the beginning so organization. Both from making a running list of your trigger word utilizing folders making sure you're actually labeling your automation so it's very clear what we're sending people to what kind of automation it is. I kind of as a practice you know I think you get excited and you're just like let's build new ones and like let's build this and this and this and you can kind of snowball and let all of that be like an afterthought but really kind of implementing that from the beginning especially if you're going to be passing it off to a team member or something like that. The other big mistakes I see are it sounds simple but not testing your automations a lot of times people set it up in the back end and then they're just sort of like okay great like. It's good it's often running and it is important to send yourself through it a to make sure it's set up correctly and people are being added where you want them to be. But then also to make sure the user experience is friendly and there's no moments where you're like oh that's redundant or that makes no sense that that's supposed to be my next step. I like to meet the joke of like send a normie through it so someone who's like not at all in the marketing world and doesn't honestly even better if they don't know many chat because we operate oftentimes in I'm in this program all day long or if you're in the online space like I know. Exactly the end goal and like I know what action I want them to take but sending someone who's really almost like unaware of any of that is really helpful because then they might have good questions or say like. Oh this this feels long like I'm kind of I'm giving up at this point. That's a really interesting feedback to receive. And then lastly is a little bit more kind of what I would consider level two. So once you start doing lead generation and that sort of thing making sure you're actually collecting the email address in many chat instead of what a lot of people do is they're like oh I'm using many chat for lead generation but they're just sending people to the link on their website which is a great it still works 100% like it you will see. Success and as an entry step amazing awesome but level two let's eliminate the form and collect all of that data in many chat because it's a better user experience and we have higher completion rates. So then you're saying you have their email where before you're just sending them to the link. Yeah before you're sending them to the form so we don't know if they've completed the form if they've given us their email before we have to have them do it again it just creates way more noise as opposed to like utilizing the tool for what it was actually built for. Okay so beyond like the basic that we talked about and I know we might have covered some of this in the beginning beyond like everything that we've chatted about is there even more creative ways that you've seen many chat being used. Yeah so I kind of love to make that my mission at times because anytime you talk about many chat on YouTube tick tock everyone loves to tell you how spammy it is. So I think there's a lot of merit in kind of saying like okay I'll take your it's so spammy comment and figuring out ways to utilize it so your audience almost falls even more in love with you and your system and the world you're building so. So I'm a firm believer in like every online business probably has way more content than they even know what to do with and one thing that I've really loved building lately is resource flows. So say you have different topics I mean you probably yourself have an extensive podcast library. If you make a real on you know marketing for whomever. Here's five resources that you might also want to listen to that are totally free that they could comment and receive. So it could be PDFs it could be podcast episodes YouTube videos blog posts kind of that content that wouldn't necessarily get eyes. But we can send it to someone as a way of like hey here's some free resources that I've worked hard on that can kind of help you along this journey. And by doing so we're nurturing them we're getting them familiar with our work what we put out there so that way down the line if we want to sell them into you know a tiny offer or a higher priced course we've created that good will and it feels.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, which most people do have a podcast where they have them talking somewhere or they went on a podcast specifically saying hey if you're wanting to know how to launch a course or Grow a podcast or whatever you get asked consistently about to link that that is so Smart rather than having to go and create a full brand new opt-in Oh my god And you do two things in one because you're driving traffic back to something that you've already done to get even more eyeballs on it Along with collecting their email I'm literally gonna do that that is so smart. Yeah, yeah, and they Just thinking about it Podcasting like why wouldn't I put together four topics? Like if you're stuck if you're if your mindset is stuck if you are in the beginning of your business and you know You plateaued or whatever. I don't know. I'll think of it, but brilliant totally And then the two kind of to build off of that one we can start tagging those people So you can start to see on the back end like okay These are all the people that are interested in mindset and then we can filter messages based on tags people have down the line and Then the other part of that is when you add those little kind of like I'm starting to Use language around many chat of like community builders or like nurture builders Into the middle of content Your engagement also increases because in the past maybe if it was like one take away in the caption and it ended there People are maybe sending it and saving it but say it was like a main takeaway Oh, by the way, if you want my three favorite podcast episodes on Manifestation like comment manifest you didn't have to do any extra work your caption and content stays almost the same But I guarantee you you're gonna get a lot more traction and comments now on that post So it's just easy ways to add more engagement and more Conversation and ultimately community building within the world you're building. Yeah, I love it people don't realize It's not just one thing. It's a domino for everything you're doing like it is a ripple effect across Everything it it like raises all ships across everything. So it's really amazing and like you said I think people don't realize when they we don't have like calls to action Many chat is such a call to action to like comment it like raises so much engagement, you know, yes So that's huge. I love that. Okay. So how do you balance automated? Interactions through many chat with the authentic personal touch that people expect Yeah, I think it is getting clear on The tools or what you're using many chat for so kind of coming back to sending those resources like that's a great way to Manually build that trust and then from there I might continue the conversation a little bit deeper if someone had questions I'm also a big fan of Utilizing it to better serve your audience. So during launch periods I've worked with different teams where We've kind of done a check-in and said like hey, do you have any questions about? Whatever it is and if they select yes We'll set up a system where it'll ping the customer service team in slack and say like at this handle is in the DMs with a question about course or product and so that's kind of a combination pairing of like We're gonna utilize many chat to kind of get in touch with those who actually want that one-on-one Communication and then use systems to just streamline the process. I love it for like what you're saying I've been using it for literally just getting people the information and I go kind of just a step Maybe a step more than some people right now, but it's working really well Let's say they're interested in in our VIP weekend at our house once it sends the info I know that they've seen it because it says seen, you know, and I'm like, okay Didn't comment back they didn't take any action. They didn't do anything. So it might be two days later Typically is when I do it. I will literally personally voice note. Hey, what are your like top two goals in your business? I mean that has been that is what is like when people are struggling. I'm like, have you reached out personally? I know that that might be Opposite of the automation but the automation gets it started and it kind of gives you this like pulse on okay Well, they were interested. Where did we get stuck? You know what I mean? So I know that we can automate some of that but I think for higher ticket you could jump in there faster lower ticket You could automate a little bit more Totally, I love that the other thing that you can add to the end of an automation is just like by the way I'm curious what you think of XY or Z or like what other content ideas you want to see for me or that kind of thing and That's a really great similarly conversation starter and then we can also automate that to be sent over to a Google sheet so that way as you are planning more content You have an existing bank of like here is from my actual audience the things that they are interested in learning about and it required No manual, you know tracking or data pulling from anyone on your team Yeah, it's you know, I remember back in the day when people who were way ahead of me in business I'm like, oh my god, how are they like crushing all these different things? They just had so many systems and they had so much so many ways to collect data And that's one thing that I think were you know, it might seem heavy to a lot of people But I'm telling you with some good many chat strategies you can collect So much data around your customer so that you stop even like doing things or putting out content that they don't want and you can start Looking at oh, I had no idea that people perceive me in this way and want to see more of this You know, you just don't know till you start getting data So I think many chats are really fun way to gather data faster Okay So how is your approach to social media strategy evolved since you first started and what predictions do you have for where? Your platforms and algorithms are heading in the coming year Yeah, I am more than ever. I'm really leaning into trying to make it feel like a community and finding ways to really foster that I love creating kind of like inside jokes with your audience or Through lines so say you talked about something and it was like a hot topic I'll give an example I'm tall and I was going to something I was like talking about how as a talk person sometimes when you wear heels you feel so Overdressed like you could be wearing the exact same outfit as everyone else But like because you have heels you're six inches taller than everyone else in the room it feels Kind of like oh, I'm definitely overdressed and I made a story about it You know threw it out there the response was wild Everyone was coming through like oh like we need to wear our heels or like I relate or that kind of thing And now in the back of my head that's a topic or little thing to like bring back So the next time I'm wearing heels like who remembers to heal debacle like I'm wearing heels today I'm like very proud I took a note out of your book and I think little things like that are a great way because if you were around for the original Part of the conversation you feel clued in like you feel a part of the inside joke like oh I remember blah blah blah and if you're new You have a little bit of that FOMO of like oh this is the This is the community here like there's inside Discourse and conversations like I want to tap in so Really getting out of the mindset of like a megaphone to a crowd of everyone and Kind of bringing more so the like dinner table round circle feel I think is really important And I think is a shift that business owners can take from Creators that are kind of creating in a more just like I'm a content creator Capacity because at the end of the day I need to be like the person that brings this up But we're all fighting for the same attention So whether you're a business owner or a creator we're all creating for the same FYP and Algorithms so how can we learn from one another so that way our content stands out? I love that okay, so Curveball because I it's you know I know you do a lot of work with personal brands But for like product base brands because I have a physical product I find it so challenging to get people into a list with a physical product give me some creative ideas on Either more community building or really like getting people into a list for a physical product Yeah, I think more than ever it's the I call it like the price of our follow It feels like we really need buy-in from someone for the follow I think that serial content is Something like not like the future of all content, but I think it is a really really strong way to Build an audience because now more than ever social media is kind of fighting traditional TV for attention spans So I would be interested to see if there is some sort of adjacent Serial content that could be created that has to do with the product but also More so what's the ethos and take away of adding this product into your life? There's a ramen Company and restaurant. There's some sort of in-not space Their tick-tock literally never talks about their actual product and its interviews with people and my guess as a Consumer and just like someone who likes to dig into why why people are making certain decisions about content is Like conversations over meals like when you have a great meal The meal is great like the food itself But it's also the conversation and what's disclosed and the emotions that are shared And so I think through their content instead of saying like Here's what we make they're trying to elicit the experience you would potentially get Over their product. We're seeing that with built rewards right now. They're actually building out like a very extensive It almost looks like a TV show series on Tick-tock and Instagram so I think ways where you can kind of break out of the product placement and more so What kind of person? Utilizes that product and what content speaks to them. Hmm. That's so interesting as you're talking I'm just like picturing all of these different things. So what I came up with this is like first I don't know if I'm gonna do it But just for an example to anyone who has a brand like I have a wellness brand So I feel like something that could be like not talking about the product But could be a value add to the audience is like it could be going up on the street and asking women like what's one weird You know thing you do for yourself. That's like, you know a personal like Like a self-love ritual that people wouldn't expect like what is it or something like that? You know what I mean like I'd wait here like what does she do like what are things she can't live without or Just a bunch of questions like that where it's like what do women do for their own like health and mental wellness that we don't know Like I would love the following little series of different stuff like that. So anyway, the example like how you know what I mean Just trying to share people the way that we're the way that we're thinking And you have to routine. Yes, like I was as series on routines. I Love I'm like show me everyone's routine morning routine evening routine like that could be Interesting because then you can have like oh, I make a quick drink the product is featured But it's not like here all of the thousands of benefits and why it's where Z. It's more so like the atmosphere Totally and just yeah, I love that I would love to sneak peek into everybody's routine like just a little clip, you know not too much But like what are the three things you like always have to do in your morning routine or your nighttime routine? Okay, I love that. All right. So Anything else on many chat that we have left on the table There I know there's so you know, there's so much actually but there's so much but I think I just always encourage business owners to Approach it and result and work backwards as opposed to oh I'm seeing people build these things so I need to do x y or z like really look at your Business and goals and like at the end of the day You're likely creating content as a means to an end Like unless you you know really are stepping into your content creator chapter Which I love that for you, but most business owners are creating content to sell products find clients Whatever that is so figuring out like how do your automations actually bring you towards that goal and don't just make Automations because everyone is you know utilizing many chat and therefore you need to as well Mm-hmm. Okay. I love that. All right Well, I want to hit on a couple personal things because you are you're not only a many chat creator But you also are a bit of an influencer yourself. I know yes I'm stepping about world. I know it's like a newer. I know I made you own it. I need to own it myself You made me say it so All right, I want to know you know with the the things that you're putting out there right now I know you've moved to a new city. I know you're talking a lot about you know moving on You're owned to a new city doing things alone meeting different people kind of tell me where even just that concept of This is what I want to talk about came from Yeah, so Admittedly I moved almost a year ago to the day to Boston from New York And it kind of started as like I just need a creative outlet or space to kind of document this experience And I also at the time was looking for someone who had done it and didn't necessarily see the like They made it through they were on the other side like there's a lot of that like I want to see someone else who has made those life choices So I know I'll be okay and I'm a big Video journal are I get to in my head when I'm writing. I just want to be this like prolific writer So I often will just set my phone up and speak to myself and just Talk about whatever comes to mind and I have a video From like May a year and a half ago at this point saying like I want to be the Google search for someone else When they're looking to be like can I you know leave a relationship and totally kind of move to a city and not know anyone and kind of start fresh and it's very Full circle moment to get DMs of from women in particular who are like you've encouraged me to like put myself out there or Like proved that I can get through X Y or Z So it feels very very fulfilling and I think that's kind of like my why at the end of the day And now I'm sort of pairing it with all of my background in strategy to figure out like okay How do you how do you strategically have those conversations and what does that look like from a business perspective? Mm-hmm So question for you because so many people are multifaceted like you're very multifaceted you really love to Like you like you just said you love to help women You know if they if they're starting over set up a new lifestyle take risks go on solo trips Go to eat on their own do all the things so that obviously it's building confidence and independence and you're you know able to kind of get through anything once you've done these things that you're showing that's really from your page so great job But are you also so you're doing your you know your your business side? But then you're setting yourself up more in this type of way that we just chatted about How are you merging those and how are people finding you if they land on your social? But you also want to work with them in business Yeah, it's an interesting Endeavor that I'm constantly navigating because I think as an algorithm We love to put people into a box and so it can feel like oh I have to niche I have to niche and That I think was my downfall for a good year of just feeling like I Almost didn't make any choices because I was so caught up in like well How do I boil it down to one sentence of who I am and I sort of had this moment where At the end I was like I'm a multifaceted human being and Embracing that will open the right doors and I know that sounds a little like I'm sure people are like okay Well, what's the tangible step? But I truly think once you are willing to be seen trying and say like hey I'm gonna share about this and I'm also gonna share about that like you end up in interesting rooms with founders who then Need help with social strategy or I'm doing it myself I'm creating many chat automations for my own personal brand content and people are like wait How are you doing that? Like I want to learn more and then it's like oh, that's you know all of this side of my business so Viewing it as a superpower potentially instead of Oh like I don't have one thing so therefore like I'm not good at it, you know, I think that's it's a mindset thing that we Specifically I think as women and societally but then also just when you think of an algorithm and it being like, you know What's your niche? What's your niche can kind of feel constrained by Yeah, it's been it's actually been my hardest thing my entire career like everyone has talked about You need a niche you need one sentence you need the thing and I'm like I cannot compute so Like it has been one of the biggest challenges for me and so many people are like well when I land on your page What are you and I'm like You got me because I do so many things, you know, it's very multifaceted. So I do feel like you can absolutely still be successful It might take a little longer for you or you might have to like play with a lot of different things But I for sure think it's possible So yeah, and I love that you're you're well you're you're sort of paving the way right because I think it is great to see people like you in the space and all of the different Elements that make you you Because then it's kind of like well I could do the same thing because at the end of the day like you are the unifier of all of those different things whether it's coaching or You know a product-based business like the one thing that remains constant is you and your values and your point of view Yeah, maybe it's like multifaceted founder who helps confused multifaceted people And we might not get to a conclusion But we're all multifaceted and we'll have really interesting conversations because we like a bunch of different things Exactly. I'm like one is our podcast great. I can help you want to write a book great I can help you want to start a product awesome. I can help you Do my that's what I feel like in a way like life is too short to only do one thing like yeah And I'm sure you've experienced this like the work you do in one area So impacts the work you do over here and it almost makes you Better like all of the different factors play like a game of ping-pong and you only become more strategic in the business side by becoming a creator or Working and learning here. And I think it's very there's a lot more Um connection than we all think I agree and I do think it's a personality type and you know for people Telling people like us like you have to have the one thing it actually feels terrible So it's like that just feels really impossible for me. So and for anybody listening It's not like I did all of these things all together at once. I'm a little like I'm in my mid 40s so like I've had years of Growing something and getting a team to kind of help and take over on that And then that allows me to move on to something else But I think that it is you know just years of kind of accumulating the things that you have wanted to do and then Understand how they can get systemized and automated and all the different things and hire teams for different things So it's not like I think when you see these people who you feel like are doing it all They're not doing it all they have a lot of teams. They have a lot of systems. They have a lot of many chats They have a lot of matties in their pocket doing a lot of different things for them And so I think Doing a lot is possible, but you're not going to do it all at once. So mattie How can somebody work with you and when do we know it's the right time to work with you? Yeah, so I always say that there's not a magic number when it comes to many chat because I've had You know people come to me with large Followings and then I look at their comments and kind of the interaction or just general discourse within their community and it's non existence totalers is accounts that are much smaller and They're you know very much overwhelmed with questions in the dns and comments So I think it's more so an engagement metric as opposed to you hit 50,000 followers Congratulations, like you should use many chat So I think it's a little bit of that knowing what are the things That are constantly coming up in dms or comments that you want to be able to automate And also from a strategic business standpoint as well Like you had mentioned kind of going back to the shop my links If you're someone who wants to be operating in that space like there's nothing wrong with that being your entry Into utilizing many chat and saying you know even if it's once or twice a week. I'm getting this Might be worth the extra few dollars here and there because Once people start to realize oh, this is the great resource like my work is done for me I don't have to do my shopping because I can just see what she's wearing and then order it myself You know that can be a great entry point So there's not necessarily like a recipe for the perfect time to but I think Once you start to feel that shift towards it being a little bit overwhelming Can be really helpful to implement it and then when it comes to working with someone People feel differently about it. I'm a big obviously like di wire. I love to take an initial Go at something myself because I also want to just know how it works and that kind of thing So some people will get started on their own and then bring in an expert down the line when they want to scale or optimize And then I've also had other clients that are you know have very large audiences and are Entering the world for the first time and I just kind of like take it off my hands set it up from the beginning So both of those are great options as well I think it's vital for people to have something at least one to Collect emails if you have a business like just try to get people Into a list because two years is going to go by and you're going to wish that you started today So for real, I mean, I wish I would have started really see like I I always quote unquote list bill But not actively like I didn't really put a lot of energy into it and now that is my goal from here on out moving forward Because it is so powerful. You just you're going to convert so much more It's just it's going to be a game changer Monetarily for your business. I promise you guys so I'm grateful for you coming on and for sharing And we've linked up everything in the show notes for matty So if you guys are interested in checking her out following her working with her We have that all down in the show notes. Otherwise you can go follow her on instagram matty. What's your handle? Matty boom a okay amazing. All right. Well, I'm so grateful that you came on and Is there any last thing that you want to share? I'm so happy to have kind of gotten to chat and go through things and I'm I'm very excited to see those resource automations that I feel like our Our brainstorming during this session. So yeah, I will say the brainstorm session. This was great. This is why a podcast so It's fully selfish you guys, but I do hope you got a lot out of it because she's amazing So all right. Thank you again and everyone. Thanks for tuning in Share this with a friend who maybe you think does not know about many chat or who needs more many chat Automations set up for themselves and until next time earn your happy. Bye everyone