We're all hungry to, you know, get the social media figured out and get the ads and get the things, but the problem is you get this inbound and then your team isn't set up to be able to deal with it. Y >> and so it's an immediate crash and your clients suffer, your business suffer, and you as a leader struggles. You really can't scale until you've gotten your team figured out. >> You can help people write a book in 90 days, but is that realistic for most people? >> Absolutely. That's Yeah, that's doable. When you have a good strategy, it doesn't have to take years to do this. You can be in the process for 90 days and come out of it with an amazing book that's set up to build your business and bestsell. >> This specific client, she is in a very small town in Washington. She was like, "I live in a small town. I can't do this." She was making $1,000 a month. Within 2 years, we got her to 70k months. >> Come on, let's small town making $1,000 a month. Said, "I can't do this." And now she's making 70 grand a month. >> Correct. >> Let's go. Leo, welcome to the podcast. >> Thank you so much. So excited to be here. >> We're so excited. Yeah. >> We've got Chris Harter and the Chris Harter show. And then we have Lorie Harter in the Earn Your Happy Show >> and we're so excited that you're here, that you're at the house. >> You came to a VIP weekend, which this is so much fun. We get to spend like two days straight with you and you get to come on the podcast. Um, but we are most excited to have you on because you are so talented. You are in our mentor collective mastermind as a coach and people are obsessed with you and what you do and we find so many people need you and your skill set. So, we're going to dive into that. >> Yeah. So, speaking of, everyone calls you the team whisperer. Like, we go to you when we have questions about team and all that stuff, but can you describe to listeners that may not know what that really means granularly, what do you do? >> Yeah. So, you know, team whisperer, I see it as connecting the dots between leaders and their teams. And so, that could look like big corporate teams that are trying struggling with management or founders that are hiring, you know, a fractional C like CMO or something like that. So, I work with teams big and small to really make sure that we are high performing. >> It's interesting because I've gotten to do that live with you, right? So, a lot of my one-on-one clients when they have large teams, I only do what I know I'm good at. And then I bring in outside experts to do the part that I may not be as good at. And I've brought you in with some of my one-on-one clients to go and assess their team and give them a report of here's who's high-risisk, here's who's not, here's who's engaged, here's who's not, here's who needs a raise. Yeah. >> Um, and you literally blueprint or road map what they need to do next with their teams. And I watch them be shocked because they don't know. They don't know this person's at risk. They don't know this person's job hunting. They don't know this other person needs a raise because they're so busy operating the business. >> Yeah. >> What's it like to go in and kind of reveal this road map of, hey, here's what's going on in your business. And what kind of reactions do you get? >> Yeah. I mean, I love the question. I think starting with the reaction is people are pretty shocked right like as a business owner or a founder you are so focused on growing and scaling that you don't realize that you know someone stopped being engaged y right they used to really care and now they're kind of coming in a little late or they're not finishing stuff and so what I can find really right away within a few hours a few conversations is exactly what you said where people are quiet quitting where they're probably looking for another job where they feel undervalued and there's some tells that I can notice right away. So like if someone is asking about a title change, if someone is asking about taking on some other responsibilities, there's some signals that I can assess and I can tell you right away like, hey, this person, you need to be doing more recognition with them. This person's not engaged. This needs they need to be managed out potentially, right? And so I can figure that out really within hours. you I just got to give you credit uh because you found that a top top performer at one of my clients businesses. Yeah. Like their number one cog in the wheel was probably going to go look for jobs elsewhere and all it took was a simple title change and a baby little raise and now things are just humming along. So they always say what hurts you isn't what you know. What'll hurt you is what you don't know and that's what you uncover. >> Exactly. And that's one of the biggest struggles I think business owners face is they wait until it's too late and then they lose that person. So people sometimes come to me when that person resigned, right? And they say, "Well, what do I do? How do I prevent that?" Well, you can prevent it way easier by getting support. Like if you have a high performing team, that's the moment actually to engage someone to help you keep that team performing. Yes, >> that's what I was just going to ask is how do you know as a business owner when you should bring someone like you in to assess everything and what does that look like? >> Yeah. Well, it's interesting because like I mentioned, even if you have one or two employees, right? I have a new client that has two employees, she's doing $4 million in revenue and one employee is is really crushing it and the other one's not quite doing it. And so, she brought me in even with a super small team because she wants to make sure that she's maintaining that revenue. So I think when like there's no time that's too early and a lot of times I get the question of well you know I want to make sure I've hired these people already before I engage support or that you know I've grown to this level and you actually can't grow to that level sustainably if you haven't figured out how to lead. So I would say it's never too early. I think if you are, you know, have at least two or three team members all the way up to, you know, 50 plus, you need to make sure that you are deploying those people the right way because there's nothing more expensive than people. >> No, you got that right. >> Right. And there's nothing more frustrating and expensive than having to rehire and retrain and deal with that whole like hamster wheel of having a low performer. >> Yeah. It's funny because on that topic, Lori and I always say finding your people is the hardest part of entrepreneurship. And when I say your people, I mean like put it in quotes, like your ride or dies. Like finding the cogs in the wheel that really make the wheel turn. Well, finding your people is the hardest part of entrepreneurship. Everything else is easier to figure out. And so with that being the case, um I would love for you to kind of break down a team that is, let's say, five or under, what's the most common problem that they face? And a team that would be 10 or more, what's the most common problem that that type of leader faces? >> Yeah. So with the smaller team, it's typically that that leader is too much in the weeds. They are still like in the day-to-day. They're making all the decisions. They're the bottleneck. And often it's a product of they haven't quite figured out really what is their role. How do they operate as a CEO? It's more comfortable to be in the weeds and signing off little things because it's scary to step into that CEO role. And so actually, I think we can relieve ourselves from that by having a clear understanding of what's getting done. And actually, this free resource I'd love to share with the community is called a snippets template. Um, I've shared this with teams big and small, and folks summarize, you know, top wins they've gotten done for the week, where they're focused next week, and where they're stuck or struggling. >> Oh, dang. That's good. Do the does the team do that or the leader do that? >> The team fills it out every Friday so that when you go into the following week, you know exactly where folks are at. >> That's so good. Where do they get that? >> Where do I get that? >> Yeah. Where's Lori? >> So, you get that at league.com/snippets. And this is a tool that I built while I was working at Google. Yeah. And it literally works with teams big or small because you can recognize wins. You know what the priorities are and you know where someone's stuck and not telling you because they didn't want to bother you. But there's actually a real big bottleneck. >> This is so good because let's be honest, we mean well, but we're all moving so quickly. You don't Okay, Lori. You know how at the end of the day you and I do three wins and you got to say three wins for the day and I got to say to you, >> we do that to each other, but we don't do that with our teams. We don't know what their wins were. We don't know what these snippets are. This is such a great tool. Like this will easily make you 100% better leader and have a 100% happier team because now they know they're getting recognized just by doing Okay. Is leagarin.com/snippets. >> Yeah. All right, >> Leah. I'm going to add that to my Monday meeting. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I'm excited. I'll keep you posted. >> Yes. I love that. >> Okay. Awesome. Um, so what issue do you see entrepreneurs face over and over with their team? And could you break it down for, you know, small teams under five people? And again, like Chris said, let's do the small team and let's do the larger team. >> Small team, big team. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, I'll do big team. You know, I think for a bigger team, it starts to be where you're going to have people that are overseeing larger projects. Maybe you're managing managers and then you're you become even more distant from the work. And so, that's where things like the snippets tool, having a key set of meetings, not too many, but like where you can keep the right pulse so that you can delegate better. And I think, you know, it's funny at the end of um the mastermind last year, we have, you know, a wager and folks are supposed to folks are supposed to, you know, complete some some big goal and a couple folks said, "Oh, I cheated. I delegated." And I said, "What? >> That's not cheating. That's doing it the right way." >> Like leading effectively. This is how you get to your lead. >> That's so funny. >> I think the biggest thing that leaders of big teams forget is delegating and finding that leadership team and letting go is going to be their superpower. that's going to let them scale and grow and focus on building the brand from a different capacity instead of just getting in the way and and bottlenecking decisions. >> Let's go a little bit further on delegation. >> Why do people have a hard time doing it and what are some steps that you can do if you're kind of afraid to give things up? >> Yeah. So, the fear is the big one. What you just said, I think people don't delegate because they're either afraid that their team's not cut out for it. It's a trust thing. Or they're afraid they don't really know how to explain it. So, it's actually a phrase that like, you know, I do this thing intuitively, but I don't know how to tell somebody else. Yeah. Right. And so, like I I have a client that runs a PR agency and she does some media trainings and when she sits down with a leader to train them, she can intuitively assess where they're stuck, what their message should be, but she doesn't know how to explain that to her team members because that's her superpower. So, she's struggled to let that go and is deeply in the weeds in this area that she could really be training her team on and scaling. And so I think what we need to do is slow down and actually break down what feels intuitive. What am I actually doing? You know what I mean? So like what you described, when I sit down with a leader or team, I actually run through a mental checklist of what I'm what I'm asking them what I'm looking for. You need to be able to explain those things to your team so that you can actually step out of that. And then you can trust yourself to let go. >> Yeah. >> And then you hand those things off to your team and then you see, okay, I give someone a little bit. I start building trust. I give them more. There's some wins and now I give them more. So, you don't we don't trust people overnight the day they get hired. No, I mean, we want to give them the benefit of the doubt, but we give them small areas and kind of accumulate those wins and then it's easier to let go. >> I always say like instead of trying to do everything 100% yourself, it's better to have 10 people maybe doing it 80 or 90% as good as what you could. Yeah. >> But you have to be okay with that 10 or 20% being mistakes and knowing that the greater collective though >> is way better mathematically than what you could do. Exactly. >> You know, and it's just getting comfortable with the fact that yes, mistakes will happen. Like, listen, if you run one McDonald's, all the burgers are going to be pretty good. If you run a 100 McDonald's, there's going to be some burgers. Yeah. >> And that's just the way it's going to go, but you're still going to survive. >> Yeah. >> I'm I'm just like sitting having this obvious epiphany of this is like any relationship in your life. Chris and I have been together as long as we have for like 24 years now because we have >> two times a day that we check in with each other >> and we forget about this with our teams and it's like these automatic, you know, check-ins that help you assess what we talked about in the the first question of are these people going in? Are they all in or are they on their way out? Yeah. >> And we just don't give ourselves those check-ins with our people. So it's it's like we would start to even understand our company, our culture, our people, who we're working with, what motivates them, what drives them. And that's really really what you do is is feel like you just have the pulse on all of your people and how to run it and how to get them snippets, man. >> She's got them. And it's and even through something like that, let's say someone is really excited and putting all these wins and then over time you see they only put two wins instead of three or they're they're less detailed. Even just looking at that, they're communicating something to you. >> Oh yeah, >> they are showing you, I'm kind of checked out, right? I used to be more excited about this job. Or maybe you can say, hey, like, are you feeling spread too thin? Like you used to really, you know, add a lot of commentary to this document. Where's where's things happening? And so it allows you to have that pulse in your team, like you said. And I think one of the things that I I like to impart on every business owner is that it is your highest performers who know their value and they're always looking for a better option. Like it's just the truth, right? So we cannot be surprised if a high performer finds a better deal for themselves. >> AI is causing a lot of fear and uncertainty and oh my god, is my job going away in the workplace? It's a whole new monster for leadership to deal with. >> What are you seeing with the onslaught of AI coming? There's no stopping it. >> And leadership challenges and what should people be doing? >> Yeah, such a great question. I mean, I think what I'm seeing that's I'm a little nervous about it. I think we're jumping right into like, oh, I have a hard conversation to have. Let me get a script from JBT or I don't want to deal with this, so let me just hand off to AI. And I think we are actually stepping over identifying, well, what problem are we even trying to solve here? Yeah. >> You know what I mean? Like if I have to give you some hard feedback and I ask AI, how do I have a hard conversation? You know, Chris was late on this deliverable, whatever. it has no idea of the context the relationship that we've had the things that are going on in your life you know anything in the company and so I think we are kind of handing off as leaders our responsibility wholesale to to you know just get some answers to questions now there's great ways to utilize AI to you know for research and for you know pulling together information and and making something that feels like very tedious easier but the leadership skills like we need to be doing that. That's why we're here. So, I think having hard conversations, we want to be developing those skills. You know, how to give feedback, how to motivate people. Those are things that is what like is the human part that we really want to keep developing. And so, when I work with leaders, I always work to develop those skills in them so that they can then deploy AI in the right way. >> So, AI is just making your job faster and easier. It's not taking you out of it. Let's look at from the respect of people managing people who are afraid that their jobs going away because we have to be very honest. >> Yeah. >> Things like accounting can now be done by AI. Uh they've got fractional CFO uh AI that is phenomenal where it eliminates the majority of the work that you need a CFO for in some cases. uh engineering um some medical like I was out to dinner we were out to dinner with two doctors really highly regarded doctors and they're like you would not believe how this is replacing what we used to do and how it's going to change the landscape of how many doctors you needed you know in a situation. >> So people do know that some jobs will get replaced. >> Uh how do you manage that fear? >> It's absolutely right. It's this is here like you said it's not coming. I think it's not about wholesale though and it's not overnight, right? I think that's a mistake that a lot of us are making is especially a business owner saying, "Okay, I'm going to replace my marketing agency with this or my designer and and then we bring in an AI tool and we realize it's not quite it. You know, it didn't quite hit the mark." >> And so, I think it's figuring out what are those key bottlenecks that we can replace and then training up our team members on how to utilize those. So maybe we do scale back a little bit, but we're doing it in a way where we we don't lose the essence of the of the output. So I'll give an example. I think a lot of creative teams are looking at utilizing AI for video and copy and things like that, but people are starting to be able to tell where it's missing. >> And with things like content creation, we want the person behind it, right? So we don't want to actually, you know, create a new problem by by utilizing it. But I will say like you said things like you know engineering medical research we're learning how to make sense of well what are the new jobs that are going to be created based on this you know just like with globalization and and other kind of automations in the past like it is an economic cycle that's going to >> shift the way we work and for our teams the more that they can be accountable take responsibility for mistakes be learning these tools be staying on the cutting edge not be defensive and and some of these things that like kind of make you replaceable >> faster replaceable or the robots's gonna get your job. >> Exactly. Right. So, it's also on us to train our teams around, hey, like this is a moment where you can really stand out. >> Yeah. >> And and give them that opportunity. >> That's cool. >> So, I want to know because you're you're talking to a crowd um on both of our podcasts who are entrepreneurs, want to be entrepreneurs, scaling entrepreneurs. >> What are you personally working on in your business? like what are you and and talk a little bit about what you're struggling with right now and how you're working on that. >> Yeah. So, I think a big struggle is is really helping leaders understand that, you know, they can't get to the next place if they don't focus on their team. >> Yeah. >> We're all hungry to, you know, get the social media figured out and get the ads and get the things. But the problem is you get this inbound and then your team isn't set up to be able to deal with it. And so it's an immediate crash and your clients suffer, your business suffer, and you as a leader struggles. And so I think what what I'm really hoping to impart on entrepreneurs is you really can't scale until you've gotten your team figured out. Even if it is again just delegating to a VA or a fractional COO, right? I mean, it's like or whatever roles you have. if you don't know how to explain what you want, set expectations, talk about deliverables, you can't even bring on like a social media agency, right? So, I think the need to actually slow down and say, "Wait, how do I, you know, figure out even where I'm going with my business? How do I know what I want?" And and so that's what I support folks with. And and one of the ways is through this ops playbook, which really maps out, you know, where you are today and where you're going with your business, right? What are your expectations, your working norms, how you set priorities, how you're tracking work, because if we don't have that figured out, whether we're a, you know, five person business or hundred, then how is anybody going to be able to support us? They really can't. >> I love that. Okay. So, where can we find you, follow you, how can we work with you? Who's your ideal client? Let's start there. Who's your ideal client? How can they work with you? >> The ideal client is someone with, you know, from three to about 30 team members, right? where you're doing close to a million in revenue to five million, where you are at this moment where you want to scale, you want to keep growing, but you know that there's something getting in the way, >> right? And so, ideally, it's someone that's really eager to, you know, figure that out and is okay looking under the hood and wants to, you know, have their team operating their best. If you're if you're a little bit scared of like what you're going to uncover, then, you know, >> then they you really need it. >> You really need it. But um and it's not only if your team is broken, right? I don't think there's really broken themed teams. There's just opportunities. So if you have a high performing team or you have some struggles, it really both apply. Ways to find me are my website, leagarin.com, on Instagram, leah.garin, and my podcast, the new manager playbook podcast is a great place. >> It's so good. I want to go back to to put a ball in this thing with where I started. And I said, "It's not what you know that hurts you." Yes. >> It's what you don't know that hurts you. And everybody they do the oh my god this person gave their two weeks oh my god this person gave their one month I didn't see it coming and there is a way to prevent that and that way to prevent it is you literally you so definitely reach out to Leah we reach out to Leah every time that we've got questions about our teams you know we're not leadership experts so we have to tap into the leadership experts and one more time because we're going to be snippeting it up uh what was it was it leagarin.comnippets to get that uh freebie. >> Yes, that's exactly right. >> Absolutely. Become a part of >> You have an easy name to spell as well. But we will we will link everything up. So, all you guys have to do is go back to the show, click on show notes, and everything is right there under Leah's name. >> Yep. Well, thanks for jumping on. It means the world to us and you are just a great friend and a great resource for us. So, it's our privilege to be able to kind of share you with the world. >> Thank you so much. >> Ashley, welcome to the podcast. you are not only on the Earn Your Happy podcast, >> but also the Chris Harter Show. Two for one, >> also the Chris Harter Show. So, we're so excited to interview you. Um, talk all about your business. We're going to talk about the entrepreneurial side of building your business. We're going to talk about >> books, books, and more books. >> Books, books, and more books. If you have a book in you, if you're not sure if you do, this is going to be the podcast to listen to. So, thank you so much for coming on the show. >> Thank you for having me. >> Let's start with the cliff notes. Um, 60 seconds. What do you do and why should people care? >> So, really quick, I help people pull the most amazing book out of them. The one that they have had on their heart forever. They know they need to write it. And for whatever reason, they're just stuck. And I find this person every single day in all walks of life. And so that's what I do. My job is to give them the structure, the strategy, and the mindset to do it. >> You've built a sevenf figureure business doing this. So, first of all, like props to you. that needs to be celebrated. >> Wow, that's amazing. >> You know, people look at you today and say, "Look at her seven figure business. Look at her crushing it." But it didn't start that way. It really started as a labor of love. And there must have been a specific reason why you said, "Hey, I'm going to go all in and put in the blood, sweat, and tears to go ahead and build this business. Bring us back there." >> Yeah. I started the business at a really challenging part of my life where I had to do something for me that I cared about again because I had spent so long doing things that were not connected to my mission, my passion, my my heart. And so I built the business from a place of like what can I what can I do? What are what are the gifts that I have? And it was literally one day I sat down. I went to Fiverr. I was like I'm doing this. I'm going to get a scrappy logo. I put it in a PowerPoint. I'm like, "This is what I'm going to offer and I just went out and started from literally ground zero." >> I don't want to skip over that, though. What happened that day? What What flipped the switch that made you say, "Fine, I'm going to take that step." >> I that day I decided to listen to myself and stop listening to all the people's shoulds. You should do this. You should do that. You need to go get a job. And I was like, you know what? Actually, I'm going to do the thing that I feel like I can contribute to help other people. And it was a big leap of faith, but I took it and I I went right into, you know, designing a business from never having done that before. But it was it was amazing. It was the most freeing thing once I got those wheels turning, which took a little little momentum, little effort. Tell me a tiny bit about what that first build looked like because somebody is sitting here listening to you right now and going, "Okay, but what did she do first? Did you, you know, did you go to Google? Did you just did you get a mentor? Did you get a coach?" Like, what did you look at to start? >> Yeah. First three steps >> I picked a name. I was like, I'm going to coach people on writing. I live in LA. Let's go with LA writing coach. It was so I just didn't overthink it. which is brilliant because the SEO thing is great. >> It really did work actually and it helped me get going because I just took that leap of faith and I didn't even I didn't have the opportunity to overthink anything. I just got things going. So, step one, I picked a name. I grabbed that domain. I designed my offers and I thought about, okay, who am I going to help? I didn't even know to call them offers. I was like, what am I going to give people? >> Exactly. Um, and then I just started to organically tell people this is what I'm doing. This is this is now what I'm doing. And I realized if I want people to, you know, work with me and trust me, I actually have to start talking to them. And so that was the, you know, the first kind of initial things I did. Very soon after that, I wrote a book to help spread the word. So it be became very clear soon after that like that is step four. Like we need to write the book. M >> were you organically reaching out to people or were you on social talking about it or was it all of the above? >> It was mostly just conversations, networking, going to conferences, going to events. Um, a lot of >> where your clientele is. Yeah. So, you were like, where is my direct clientele? >> Where are my people? And just showing up and saying, you know, I help authors get their books done. Do you have a book inside you? And talking about that and you know, a lot of >> guys, this is the key here. She was saying what she did before she really like really really did it, you know, showing up like here's what I do. And so many people are like I kind of have this idea. I'm kind of I'm like no, you got to go all in like that. You really do. And and so you built something absolutely amazing. >> Thank you. >> From that. >> How quickly from those organic conversations did the business feel start to feel like you had a business? Like you started to get some people? >> It it happened fast. So then I hired a coach. I got into a business coaching, you know, program, which is essential I feel like to get that mentor and then everything started to move. That first year I did like six figures in a few months. It was like maybe six months, seven months, eight months, something like that. And then that same year, I doubled my revenue and went to 250 really quickly by the close of that year. So, I was like, that's when my husband and I were like, "Okay, I think this is something we need to really, you know, put some more effort into because it's working." >> That's awesome. >> Yeah. That's amazing. Okay, so let's uh switch gears real quick and let's talk to the people who are listening and feel like they have a book inside of them, but they're super overwhelmed or they're stuck. What is the first mindset or strategy shift that you think that they need to make to finally start? Yeah, it's not actually too dissimilar from the business side of it where you get the overthinking and you become sort of a perfectionist. That happens a lot with books because they're they're so permanent. You know, they're around forever and people tend to think they can't, you know, they they can't kind of knock it out of the park on book number one, but you can. >> And so, the first thing is mindset. You've got to get your your head right. you've got to start thinking about the actions you're going to take and stop second-guessing every move. And it's so it's very similar to business. It's very much about get a strategy in place, get your mindset right, and start taking action on that book a little bit every day. Um, no different if you're going to go to the gym and, you know, lose 30 pounds, right? It's that little every day that adds up. So, >> Lori asked about the people that know they have a book inside of them. I want you to speak to the people who have never considered it because let's be honest, writing a book can be very timeconuming. It can be very daunting. It can be very intimidating. A lot of people think, "Oh, I don't have a message or why me or who am I to to write a book or they worry about people judging them?" So, I want you to speak to the people who don't think they have a book inside of them. Why is it important for them to consider doing this? >> Every single person has an incredible story. I have never listened to somebody and thought, "Ah, they don't really have a life story. They don't really have anything." Most people have an incredible origin story about how they became the person that they are and they've got, you know, serious serious things to share with the world, serious value, but they often just get hung up in their head thinking, I don't I don't have that within me or most people do. And it's, you know, writing that book is something that's going to change you. It's going to elevate the person that you are from a self-development standpoint. Like, it's going to make you better. No different to going to the gym every day or starting your business. Like, it's going to make you better. When you actually take the time to sit down, you write that book. You're a different person at the end of that draft. You'll never be the same in a great way. >> I want a real example. Can you think of a client that started out thinking a book is not for me and now they're like flourishing because of it? >> Yeah. So many so many I think they came into the process with resistance. We we had a client called Lynn >> and she had been told her whole life to write her book. Um like many people get told you should write a book. You should write a book. >> Oh yeah. >> And she was told this for decades and just for whatever reason didn't feel like she could, you know, do it. We worked together. We wrote her book and she just blossomed. She started speaking. She, you know, built her professional uh speaking business and started to actually, you know, really grow in her confidence. and she's now the author of like two, three books. I believe she's on her third, which is incredible to me because she started with nothing. So, >> when people were telling her, "Write the book, write the book," what was her resistance? What was she afraid of? >> I think it's the what will people think of me? It's the >> do I have something really to share? >> Who am I to write a book? It's, you know, who's going to want to read what what I have to say? It's it's all of those thoughts that get people really stuck and self in self-doubt, right? I remember this with my book. Number one, I did not graduate high school. I'm like, who am I to write a book? I can, you know, like what do what do I even know about? Um I I didn't even complete like English classes. So, how am I ever going to do this? That's just what was going on in my head. And there was also the thought of are these stories good enough? Especially once you start writing, like even if you get the confidence to write the book, when you start writing, it actually comes in with a vengeance even more. Like I have nothing good to say, but I talk about this with all of my authors that come on the podcast and of course all the people who love to help people write books and exactly what you do with your business. And it is like the little stories that are the big stories. Like I even find in the books that I enjoy the most or even the stories that people let me know they enjoyed in my book, I was like that was a story that I didn't even know what to add there. and I looked around the coffee shop and wrote about who was in the coffee shop and what I was experiencing. It wasn't even a life story. It was stories that were happening simultaneously to me writing that I was sharing while they were happening. So, of course, I had a a couple big, you know, stories in there, but you've have like 20 chapters in a book, >> right? >> And so, a lot of the like the little stories become the big stories. And a great person like you is going to guide them and show them how their life is content, you know, and how you get a really beautiful story out of that. >> Yeah. I mean, your your stories, your everyday life, the way you think, your perspective has enormous value. And a lot of people discount that I feel like. >> So my job is to show you and highlight actually how that is value for your reader and for your audience. So >> I literally can't say how important it is to have a coach. I had coaches through the entire process and I became such a better human being. I became so much better at business, at sales. I became so proud of myself. I learned how to look at my life in a completely different way through like these coaches lenses who are constantly coaching me on how to think and how to speak and how to tell those stories. I think if I did not write the the book and go through that process, I wouldn't be half as successful as I am now. For sure. >> Yeah. That that person who's doubting whether they even have it or they've never thought about it, they >> they really need to look at their life and realize people are vastly interested in how you became the person you became. >> Yes. >> And they want to know and there's no for me there's no greater way to share that than in the written form. It just holds such value, such longevity. >> I think that's because they they can find themselves in your journey. Like my favorite books are biographies of entrepreneurs because you nailed it. People really want to dig into how did you get where you went because I can find my journey albeit a little bit different in other people's journey be like, "Oh, it's going to be okay." Or, "Oh, this is just a setback." Or, "Oh, this is the launching off part." Or, "Oh, they made that move. Clever. Maybe I should make that move." And I think that's why people out there need to share their story. Uh regardless of where you are in life because there's somebody else that's looking and wishing, I wish I knew how they I wish I knew how they got where they went. >> Yeah. And I think pulling back the curtain is where, you know, we have a lot of we have a lot of people go, okay, this is actually what I did. This is the truth. This is the real deal. Right. Versus what we portray sometimes, you know, in other mediums. The book is a chance to say, actually, look, here's a piece of my life you didn't know, right? >> Oh god. I I did that. I was like, well, I'm not brave enough to tell this to everyone, but I I need them to know this in order to understand why I do what I do and who I am. >> And I remember like before releasing it, I was like, "Oh like what did I do?" And now I'm so grateful. It's such a good modality to really tell the whole story because >> Oh, yeah. >> you know, a lot of people who are listening, you know, social doesn't do justice to our stories. And some if you're a long form person especially and you've got a big message like a book is going to be the way to really drive that home and drive people to it and that can be really the driver of your business. So you've got a new book. >> Yes. >> The author's success code. So it breaks down exactly how to write a book that builds your authority, your audience, and your income. You guys, you need this book. Can you share one of the biggest myths that you see about writing a book and what's actually true if you want your book to work for your business? >> I love it. I love it. So, so the the biggest myth is that you can just sort of sit down and write and just flow and it's like yes, you can. >> I remember when you thought that like I'll write when I'm creative. >> Oh, that was ugly. Right from inspiration like let it just flow through me like okay some of that but like you really need a good structure. >> Yes. You need that threepart structure to hook them in, pull them through your content, and then at the end, especially with non-fiction, you need to convert them into the thing that you offer, your programs, products, services. So, you need to you need to leverage that reader into the next thing with you. And if you've done your job right with that structure, they're going to be >> so persuaded by the end, they're going to be like, "What's next?" Like, "I want that thing." Yeah. And so your job is to kind of serve it up to them organically in there. >> It reminds me of when you were writing your book, babe. The whole, "Oh, I'll do it when I'm inspired." It doesn't happen. And you had to form a habit of showing up every morning, sitting down, and saying, "I'm going to sit here whether I write a word or not." And you'd time yourself. What'd you sit there? 90 minutes. >> Every morning at 5:30 a.m. When was it? 5:30. Right before I >> And you would force yourself sit there from 5:30 to 7:00 saying, "If I write a bunch of stuff or if I write nothing, I'm still going to sit here." And that's how you build the muscle of writing a book. >> You have to you have to. And it really does get better. And I was the opposite of a person who wanted to number one sit, number two write. >> Yes. Yes. That muscle has to be built. And it's, you know, it's a strategy of like, okay, whether I write garbage or this is Shakespeare today, I'm going to I'm going to make myself do the habit. And you just have to show up consistently. Ladies, I have to share this because it is too good to keep to myself. Bras and underwear have always been a bit of a struggle for me. It's hard for me to find something that I absolutely love, and it feels like when I do, they're discontinued, or I can never find in my size. They either dig in, they roll, they scrunch up, or just feel uncomfortable halfway through the day. I wear a lot of white. I wear a lot of form-fitting clothing. And so I hate the fact that you can either see your intimates or they roll or they just don't look right. And I honestly thought that this is just how it was until Skims. You guys, I finally tried the Fits Everybody collection and I'm I am literally blown away. Like I thought they would be good, but I had no idea they would be freaking amazing. The material is unreal. It's buttery soft. It's breathable. It molds to my body like a second skin. It's sexy. It's literally the best fit in fabric I have ever worn in my life. And I got the fits everybody triangle bralette. The thong and the dipped front thong. And I'm not exaggerating when I say I am obsessed. The bralette gives me the support I want without ever feeling like I have really anything on. The thong doesn't roll up or bunch. And the dipped front style is so flattering and comfortable. I forget that you even have it on. And you guys, I will never go back now. I'm going to replace everything in my drawer with SKIMS. I'm obsessed with the material. I'm obsessed with the color. And if you ever struggled with intimates that don't feel right, I promise you this is the solution. The comfort, the fit, the feel. Ski nailed it. Shop Skiimsfits Everybody collection now at skims.com. And after you place your order, let them know we sent you. Select podcast in the survey and be sure to choose earn your happy in the drop- down menu. And yes, you guys, this is an ad, but I am literally obsessed. This is the brand I wear and that I'm replacing everything with. You know, when I first started my business, it felt like I had to learn every single role overnight. designer, marketer, accountant, tech support, you name it. It was so overwhelming and frustrating. I didn't actually know if I'd be able to do it. And even when I started Glossy, I remember the early days of figuring out packaging, shipping, building a website, and doing this all for e-commerce, which I was not used to, and trying to make it all look beautiful without losing my mind. I kept thinking, I wish I had a partner in this. And that's why I always tell people now, if you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world, 10% of all e-commerce in the US. We're talking household names like Mattel, Gym Shark to brands that are just getting started and also Glossy. So with Shopify, you can get started with your own design studio. Hundreds of readytouse templates help you build a gorgeous store that matches your brand style. Accelerate your content creation with built-in AI tools that can write product descriptions, headlines, and even enhance your product photography. Get the word out like you've got a marketing team behind you. Shopify makes it easy to create email and social campaigns, so you can show up wherever your customers are scrolling or strolling. And best yet, Shopify is your commerce expert, helping with everything from inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. So turn your big business idea into with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. That's shopify.com/happy. Shopify.com/happy. One of the most stressful things about moving into a new home is all the little details you don't think about at first, like window treatments. In our last home, I used blinds.com for our blinds and our curtains, and it was honestly such a seamless experience. They sent me samples super fast. They helped me choose what would look best. And the turnaround time was fast. Thank God because our windows weren't covered. Everything was easy, beautiful, and done without the headache that I expected. That's why I'm so excited to share blinds.com with you because they've truly reinvented the way we shop for custom window treatments. So maybe you even just want to upgrade what you have right now. There's no more waiting around all day for an in-home designer just to get an overpriced quote. So, with blinds.com, you can shop 100% online or get expert advice through virtual design consultations, all on your schedule. Whether you know exactly what you want or you need help deciding, blinds.com makes it simple. You can do it yourself or you can let their pros handle everything from measure to install. Either way, you'll have experts by your side every step. And you'll get the same designer look that you see in a showroom without the showroom prices. Plus, they've got so much more than blinds. Think bamboo shades, shutters, even outdoor patio shades. And every order is backed by their 100% satisfaction guarantee. With 29 years in business and over 25 million windows covered, they're the number one online retailer for a reason. Right now, Blinds.com is giving our listeners an exclusive $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout. Limited time offer. Rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. I love it. I I love that you do this because it is definitely outside of like an event or starting your own business. I think writing a book, starting your own business or like throwing an event is like one of the largest personal development journeys >> of your life. And you you know like you had said you are you are a different person on the other side. Someone who you're >> you're just so proud of and who really can feel pretty unstoppable after writing a book. >> Oh yeah. I I have clients launch businesses, they go out, they start landing TED TED talks, they're, you know, their confidence, their confidence like I did the hard thing. I did the thing I didn't think I could do that so few people do successfully. I finished that thing. You know, it's a testament to that perseverance. >> Um, so it's a it's a big deal. You know, >> you know, I'll say even someone who um you know, I literally get hundreds and hundreds of podcast pitches a week >> and I will take someone a lot more serious who has a book. >> Yep. >> Because they chose or they they decided and knew that their message was big enough and and concise enough and clear enough to put in a book that they I know that they spent a lot of time to create, you know, an outline and a set of tracks for people to run on, right? where a lot of times if I have someone who's like, "Yeah, I'd love to talk about X, Y, and Z." I'm like, "Great. Have you like, you know, are you going to get on this podcast? Are you really going to take us down a linear path or is this going to be all over the place?" Like, do we have our three things we're going to talk about or do we have our, you know, our five things or chapter five that's really going to get into this framework? Like, it really helps me know what they're going to come with. Yes. >> And it helps you book stages. It helps you book opportunities. It's a calling card. It's like you can lead with it and when people don't have it, it does it can make it a little bit tougher. It can make it a little tougher. >> It's like, you know, when everyone got a blue check mark instead of just like well-known people having a blue check mark. Well, now the book has to be the new blue check mark because there's nothing else to set you off being special. Like you took the time to sit down and actually write a book instead of just saying you can't say you're somebody until you've actually done the work to be somebody. And that's what a book kind of validates. >> Yeah, definitely. >> Said from a guy who doesn't have a book. Chris, we got to fix. >> Yes, exactly. >> I You would You would write such an epic book. I just I can't wait until you have enough time to do it. We'll just We'll see. >> Yeah, it'd be called the uh the Bible of F-words. >> Yes. >> Great. Well, everyone needs it. >> Yes, exactly. How I f worded my way to millions of dollars. >> I mean, you kind of have. So, so is Gary Vee, so it's great. >> Yeah, I like it. >> And the irony is it would probably sell really well with a title like that status on top of it. We got my title. You heard it here, everyone. That was so easy. Great. >> Well, all joking aside, you know, somebody like myself that wants to write a book or someone that's listening, you're relaunching something that's super cool called the book accelerator. Yes. And you're also working with a handful of one-on-one clients. Talk to me about the difference. Like who is the book accelerator for versus who's the one-on-one hands-on attention for? And what kind of entrepreneur or leader like are you trying to call in? >> Yeah. So great. Well, I'm really excited to relaunch it because it's our signature program and the the book accelerator is for people who want to do this in a group. They want to do this with other authors. They want to be part of a cohort. They want to move through an experience together and feel that momentum and kind of make those connections. Whereas the onetoone is more of a curated experience for somebody that doesn't have a lot of time. They want some done for you components in there. So I like to come in and do their book branding, help them build that outline, that structure. So I do a lot for them in that experience where the group it's more like here's the here's the method, here's the the sauce, right? You go and do it yourself and you, you know, find your way. You build your content yourself, but we're here to help you, right? So done with you versus more done for you. Um, but that person ideally has a business that they're driving people toward, right? So they want to leverage their credibility and they and their experience um and they want to um essentially build their business through the power of a book. So looking for that person who has that entrepreneurial background and is looking to grow and elevate through the book being out. >> So how long does it take? Like I think I I remember seeing on your Instagram one time that you have you can help people write a book in 90 days, but is that realistic for most people? I think for most people that dedicate themselves through, you know, several months, right? And that's their main focal point. Absolutely. That's Yeah, that's doable. >> Wow. That's really cool. I mean, that's fast. That's >> Chatty G now. >> Yeah, >> you can do a whole lot. >> Chatty G, listen to all my episodes, uh, the past 1100 episodes and put it into a book for me. >> But that is interesting for people who have a lot of content out on the internet already. There's a lot like that. They can speed up time. Yes. a lot more. >> Yes. Yes. And and I think our friend, you know, AI can do a lot of the planning and heavy lifting for us, a lot of the organizing, but when it comes to writing, I really like people to sit down and do what you did, Lori, and commit themselves to drawing those words out of them because, well, one of the things is you can't copyright a book that AI has written. So, you know, interesting. >> People be careful. Publishers won't touch it, you know. So, you got to be interesting to know because you don't fully know. You don't fully know if it's if if those words are taken or not. You just really don't know what's happening right now. >> Publishers won't touch it. It's, you know, >> what's one more thing that would surprise people about writing a book? Like in a good way. >> Oh, in a good way. I think I think just the just the sheer speed that you can move through the process. A lot of my clients, especially those oneto ones, they'll get to a certain point and go, "This feels really fast." Almost like it feels like it should take longer. And I'm always like, "Well, no. No, I mean when you when you have a good strategy that you're, you know, utilizing, it doesn't have to take years to do this. You can, you know, be in the process for 90 days and you come out of it with an amazing book that's set up to build your business and and best sell. So, >> a lot of times a book itself is not necessarily that profitable, but you can make a lot of money because you wrote a book. Can you give me a specific example? >> Yeah. Well, me I think my business I you know I built my sevenf figureure business off of a you know one tiny little book that I cranked out in a matter of days and wild you know and not every book needs to be like that you know this is a more substantial book the author's success code but you know I I think books they I have lots of clients that you know make six figures from their book but it's because that book is feeding their business >> so they're not sitting there waiting for the royalty check although Those are nice when they come in, right? But it's like icing on the cake. And the the cake is obviously getting those those clients and those sales and the speaking opportunities that pay. That's what they find is the is the best um form of ROI, I guess, for the investment and the time. But >> I think I like the long tale of a book. I mean, we still get royalty checks. It's been eight years since you wrote your book. >> Oh, yeah. >> And every quarter, we still get nice checks. >> Yeah. and and people still mention the book all the time and I'm still getting booked on stages because of the book and >> yeahale it's been I mean that was 2017 >> it's awesome >> and people are like oh yeah you wrote a book I'm like a long ass time ago but yes I did you know and it is something that when I speak I can bring it places like it is street cred it it really is and um like I said it's having all of your ideas in one spot so if anything else if people are kind of confused on how to package themselves mselves and they've like really had all of these different ideas that they're very passionate about and they love teaching on. Maybe they have courses in different things. Maybe their podcast is on something. to get a book is to like I actually want to write another one just to repackage everything I really believe after all these years because I do actually now have like a framework that I believe in so solidly that I'm like oh this is what I want to put into a book so that I not only can like go and really talk about this and like have it in a structured place but because it helps me package who I am and who I want to be out to the world and that's the part that I think people don't understand that's missing for a lot of people is that really created my platform >> for quite a few years. Like I sold so many events off that because my book was about relationships and friendships and and how to use those to become your highest self and and that literally informed all of my content for the next, you know, seven years. Yeah. >> Yeah. And and there's something about putting that down and being able to just say here's here's who I am. this is what I do, what I believe in. >> Want to know more? It's all here, right? And it's just, it's such a cool thing to see the longevity like you're talking about, you know, years and years and years of that same content. >> And if people use it right, I mean, you should be using your book for 10 years. I really believe we should like continue to to bring it out, to share it, to talk about it. >> Um, and so let's leave people with two things. >> I would love for you to leave them with any entrepreneurial advice that you have for somebody who is either, you know, maybe they've started their business or they're thinking of starting their business. And then the next one is for the future author. What would you leave them with? So, let's start with the first one. Entrepreneurs. >> Oh, those entrepreneurs like I feel you. It's like uh so here's what I would say. Stop overthinking. Just take action. Even though it's messy, it's going to be it's not going to be perfect. It's not going to look polished. Not yet. That's okay. Just get going with it. I would say don't overthink what you're about to do and start taking that action. Um because a lot of people So one of the things I would advise is sell it before you make it. >> Yes. >> Then go create it. >> Yeah. >> For sure. >> Because you just got to get in the rhythm of like I'm selling a thing and then I'm going to deliver on what I sold. And that is often what the rhythm needs to be. So >> accountability. >> Accountability. Don't do it. >> Yeah. And and so stop trying to like make it perfect and then go out and sell it because otherwise you're not able to really test if it's viable. Better to get paid and then go make the thing that you just >> I like that. >> Totally. Okay. Now for the writer. >> So for the author, the aspiring author, I think I want to tell them to go back to their origins and really think about the story that only they can tell, right? the story that is maybe a little vulnerable, a little bit scary, but they know deep down is fundamental to who they are and why they're doing the work that they're doing because so often they ignore that part of themselves. But that's where the good stuff is. That's where people really will connect with you and find, you know, your your heart, your humanity, and want to work with you. So, like tell those tell those uncomfortable stories, get vulnerable. And I feel like that's a a great place to to begin. >> I love that. Where can people get the author's success code? >> Just go to go to Amazon and it's going to be there. You can look it up. It's also um on my website, writingcoachla.com. >> Writingcoachla.com. >> Writingcoachla.com. That's it. >> Love it. And what's your Instagram handle? >> Um Ashley Mrs. >> Love it. All right. And we're putting everything in show notes so you guys can just scroll down and click and see everything that she just said. >> Yep. Well, thank you so much for being on. It means the world that you take your time to come on and share like why you should be an author, how to be an author, how quick it can go, what the business case studies are for doing it because it's going to make a huge difference. And someone who's been out there kind of teeter tottering like should I should I not? It's a hell yes to do it. >> And you're such an inspiration to people to create something from like to have that, >> you know, sick of your moment >> and take action >> to taking massive action and creating what you created and letting it just be messy and not knowing what you're doing. And that's this is that is the journey. So, we're grateful for you coming on and sharing that. >> Thank you. I'm so grateful. >> Thank you so much for being here. >> Thank you so much. Grateful for both of you. >> Thank you, >> Kelly. Welcome to the podcast. You're not only on the Earn Your Happy Show, but you're also on >> the Chris Harter Show, Double Trouble. >> Yes. So, you get the both of us today, and we're so excited that you're here. You're actually here at home in our studio, which is so much fun. you are here for a VIP mastermind weekend and we're excited to dive into your business because what's so exciting for us with these podcasts is to not only talk about exactly what you do because you do some really cool stuff, but also to kind of share with people where you're at in your business and you know what's working well for you, what's not working well. People get really excited to know that you're kind of in the trenches with them building. So, we can't wait to dive in. >> Yeah. And here's why I was excited to have you on. Um, I mean this as a compliment. Medical practitioners are geniuses at everything except for building a business. My god. We were out to dinner with two doctors uh recently about two nights ago. >> I actually know them. >> Oh, you know them? And they were saying the same thing. They're like, "Nobody taught us this." Right. >> So, we're here with our hair on fire figuring it out on our own on top of being parents, on top of being everything else. And there's just something about I I it's probably because you study so hard to be a medical practitioner that you then never stopped to study entrepreneurship. Correct. >> And this is what you specialize in. So for those listening, describe what you do to help medical practitioners get their business off the ground. >> Yes. So what we do is we help men and women in the health care space, especially cashbased practices, grow and start their businesses online and in person. What types of specific things do do you help them grow an email list? Do you help with marketing or do you help with like uh the the financial side of things or is it a one-stop shop? >> Yeah, great question. So, we help with systems mainly is getting people their time back and getting them organized. So, basically we have a CRM system that we have white labeled and we have that part of our programs that we use. And then we also have different uh programs that take you from the very beginning of when you're starting out uh and get you all the way through making, you know, over $100,000 a month plus. And we work with OBGYn's uh NPs and hormone doctors, physical therapists, occupational therapists, chiropractors. We work with everyone in the medical space that needs help, especially if they are a cash driven practice. And what I love about this is you're not just somebody who woke up and said, "I'm going to teach business." >> You were a medical practitioner, right? You're a pelvic floor specialist. >> That's correct. >> That happened to be one of the lucky ones that knew how to do business really well, built an incredible business and said, "Oh, my peers need this." >> So, you're teaching from both ends of the spectrum. >> Yeah. It's um it's been really amazing because I didn't know anything about business, like you said. And when I started to dive into this and get started, I was like, "Oh my gosh, I really need to figure out business." Because all we were taught is help people, help people. And so, deep down, that's what we love doing. We help people, but they don't teach us actually how to help people and do a business. And so, that's why I'm really passionate about helping practitioners be rock stars in the business space. So, yeah. So take me back to that moment for you where you were helping other people and you're like this is my, you know, this is my life's calling. I want to help these people, but it started to flip for you and you realized that you wanted to do a lot more >> than patient care. It's kind of the moment the student realizes they want to be the teacher. Where were you at in life and what was that moment like? Yeah. So, I was about a year into actually after I started my practice and I had one of my patients on the table and she was a former patient of mine and she was like, you know, I just really have this passion for treating postpartum and pregnancy. And I was like, "Yeah, I know. You really do. I can see it." And she was a teacher. And so I was like, "Okay, how can we get you to be involved in this?" So I was like, "Hey, you want to come work for me?" And she was like, "Yeah, I actually do." So I was like, you know what? I'm going to coach you on how to leave your job. You know, this is her career, being a teacher. >> And so I did. And I changed her life. And it was amazing. She came to work for us. She was my manager for three years. And that was the moment where I really realized, oh my gosh, like I'm not only helping people physically, but I'm also able to help them change their life completely. And it's in a different dynamic than I knew was possible. And so I started to do that over and over and over again with patients. Like I would coach them on how to leave their jobs and it got me really excited and I was like why don't I do this for everyone else and like that was the moment that I was just like yeah I can I can really help people in business. I love those stories because they they start with one person. I feel like you just brought me back to a time where you and I like I think someone had asked like oh how did we grow our online business and I also had a brick and mortar at the time so I had a gym >> and it was like I think I came home and I was like we should do like a day coach this person yeah like we should do like four hours with this person just see where we can get and it takes that one moment of wait this worked y >> how could I do this again how could I scale this how could I turn it into a business so for anybody listening it doesn't start with some massive business plan it's typically one person that you got a transformation for and you're like well that worked >> right exactly it's exactly what it was and it was just such an inspiring moment where I was like why don't I help other people do this and then I saw my practice growing and then I was like why don't I help all of healthcare be able to elevate their businesses and actually have a business and because you said you know we're not great at business >> and it didn't just work it really worked so you've went from helping that one person >> to growing this awesome sevenf figureure business, an online business and a brickandmortar business, so you know how to do both, right? Like awesome. Crushing it. >> Wait, you're young. >> Yeah, she's barely getting started. Now, here's the catch, though. You did it having these non-negotiables. Correct. Would you share those non-negotiables with everybody? >> Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with your customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24/7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every single time. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.comhappy brevo.com/happhappy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. You guys have to try Headway. Headway is a daily growth platform. It's a beautifully designed app that gives you bite-size insights from the world's best non-fiction books in just 15inut summaries, which is amazing because I have hundreds of books that I would love to read and I'm never going to make it through with my busy schedule. And these are available in both read and audio formats. With nearly 2,000 titles across 30 plus categories, from productivity and happiness to money and more, headway makes it simple to keep learning even on your commute, during breaks. I love listening to it while I put my makeup on in the morning or between meetings. You'll find crowd favorites like Present Over Perfect, The Mountain is You, Own Your Everyday, and Think Like an Entrepreneur, Act Like a CEO. Here's why millions of people love it. because it's personalized recommendations that align with your goals, progress tracking, and gentle encouragement to stay consistent, and award-winning design that makes growth enjoyable. It's trusted globally with 50 million downloads and over 2 million monthly users. Recognized as the number one education app on the US App Store and often featured as Apple's app of the day, you guys, people love it for a reason. Whether you're building your dream business, working on relationships, or just want more emotional clarity, Headway gives you the right wisdom at the right time. So, if you're ready for growth that feels good, start today. Grow your way the headway. Go to makehadway.com/happy and use promo codeappy for 25% off your subscription. That's makehway.com/happy. Use promo code happy. One of my favorite places in the entire world is Paris. I swear I'm already mentally planning my next trip back there. So, last year after hosting a mastermind in Italy, Chris and I had to sneak over to France for a few days because while you're already in Europe, how can you not? We did a river cruise, which is one of my favorite ways to see the city. The views of the Eiffel Tower from the water are so freaking dreamy. And of course, I had to stop at every little cafe for a croissant, or should I say, and cappuccino. One of my favorite things to do when we travel is just wander without an agenda. like just get lost in the streets and go wherever the wind takes you. Some of the best inspiration hits me when I'm exploring somewhere new with zero expectations and total white space in my calendar. Paris is so special to us. We've even talked about living there someday for a short period of time or maybe a long period. I don't know. If you've got the travel bug like I do, you've probably stayed in a bunch of Airbnbs. But have you ever thought about hosting your own home on Airbnb to make it more affordable for yourself? So, while you're out traveling, your home could be working for you. It's such a great way to make some extra cash to put towards your future bucket list trips like Paris. And your home might be worth more than you think. So, you can find out how much at airbnb.com/host. Yeah. I think the first thing is that number one, you must invest. Invest is huge. Like, I remember the first time I ever invested thousands of dollars and my husband and I got in a massive fight. He walked out >> accurate. >> He was like, "This guy is a scam. Do not invest in him." And I was like, "No, I have to. Like, I can really feel like this is going to take me to the next level." And I did. >> And I got like a 7,000% return. >> Oh my god. Oh my gosh. >> Do you like rub that in your husband's face for just do whatever, right? Um, but that's the number one thing is like people are so scared. I didn't have money. I had $800 in my bank account because I had to pay $230,000 student loan debt. Yeah. >> So, I didn't have the money. So, I got a credit card, put it on that, and I was like, I'm going to figure this out. Like, I'm going to figure this out. I have to. Like, you're when your back's up against the wall, you got to figure it out. So, number one is invest. It doesn't matter how much money is in your bank account, you got to invest. >> Damn, that's good. >> Yeah. Number two is you have to grow an amazing team and cultivate an amazing culture and team. Team is huge. Being able to know your strengths and know other people's strengths and how you guys work well together is important. And they have to have passion. That's number three for me. Number three is you have to have passion and purpose. >> Yes. >> Okay. Because if you are not passionate, at least for me, if I'm not passionate about something, I'm going to move on to the next thing and I'm not 100% in it. So, I have to be fully committed, fully passionate about it so that I am like game on and I get so excited to wake up and study and do the thing and just keep learning and growing and elevating everyone. Like I just I love that. And I would say number four is having high standards. I have very very high standards and taking that from when the patient walks in the door to when I work with my coaching clients. Everything is at the next level and not compromising on that. No matter who comes into your life thinking, "Wow, your standards are so high. You should you should let go of those." And I've just learned no, don't compromise on that. You have to be really firm and um you know, be fearless and lead fearlessly. >> These are the attributes that will absolutely make or break a business. I freaking love these. I forgot what was number two. >> Um >> I don't know. Team >> team. >> Team. Yeah. >> Seriously, if people were enthusiastic. >> Yeah. Passionate. >> Passionate, right? >> Yeah. High standards. >> High standards. Um if people invested more in themselves even when they're afraid, right? >> And if people made team first and foremost, like what's going down here? >> That is the secret recipe to you're going to make it even when you're in the beginning and being clunky and learning. like you could absolutely out enthusiasticly your skill set if that makes sense. >> 100%. I just want to dig into that last one because it's tough for people to hold a standard especially yes if they you know they're they're didn't grow up with them. They didn't see them and they know they have them for themselves but bringing them into a team can be really really tough. Bringing them into your relationships, your friendships into your life. How have you like what has that looked like for you to hold a high standard like when other people aren't like to put that upon other people? How do you do that? How do you get other people to do that? >> Yeah, it can be extremely challenging and I've had to learn which again we weren't taught in medical school. I've had to learn how to raise everyone's standard. So, and it's first just recruiting properly. I've made that mistake a lot where you didn't recruit the right people. And so you have to know their deep why before you even bring them on. You have to know what drives them. Their vision has to fit inside your vision. And so once you know that and it's like, okay, you want to get this thing. Okay, great. Well, this is how we're going to do it inside this company. And as long as you put them on the forefront and really learn how to elevate them, then the whole team is moving forward. But if you're just like, "Hey, it's all about me and I want to just do this thing because it's me." You will not have a business and and you have to say, "This is what we expect." So, it's really about setting the culture from the beginning and sticking with that so that everyone knows when they're here, it's it's I would say game on. It's game on to freaking like elevate. >> I can actually feel her enthusiasm. You can tell these are standards. >> Yes. Yeah. So, for somebody who already has a team, they have not shown that standard yet. Is there something that you could go into your team with and you're like, "Hey, you know, I I went away and invested in myself. I decided this is the standard that we're going to hold." Like, how would you have that conversation? How would you bring that back? >> Yeah. So, I always try to bring my team along with the along the journey that I go because if they're with me, then they're not going to leave me, >> you know? So, I'm always like, "Hey, I'm going to go do this thing." Like I told my team today, I'm like, "Hey, I'm going to go do this thing. anything I learn, I'll bring it back and we're gonna, you know, have a grouping and then we'll move forward on it, right? And so, as long as you kind of set that standard up front of this is how we're going to, you know, invest and this is what we're going to do and this I think this thing is going to then elevate us to this level or this is what we're going to take from away from this thing to to do this. And I think it's just setting the standard up up front and then executing on it. So, whatever you say, holding your word and saying, you know what, I'm going to then bring this back and then next three days we're spending time and we're going to just execute this out and just like really planning it out, you know, and then they're like, okay, cool. She stayed to her word. >> I love that. Yeah. Just showing them here's what we're doing next. Here's what I learned. Here's where we're going. Here's where we want to go. And it's such an opportunity for people if you frame it that way, too. Like, this is such the more that we grow, the bigger the opportunity grows for you. So, this is exciting. like you make it exciting, not like the iron fist coming down like we haven't been this way and >> the best performing teams are this way and we're not this way. Like you know there's delivery that's so important. So I love that and your enthusiasm through this whole thing is so good and keeping that with your team. So >> you built a lot of success while you battled something personally that not a lot of people saw. Yeah. >> How did that shape the way that you lead and serve today? >> Yeah. So there's a couple things. So when I was three years old, I stuck my head through a banister. got my head stuck. My sister I it wasn't coming out. My sister pushed my head back out and I ripped my right ear off. >> Whoa. >> Oh my god. >> Yeah. So, I cannot hear out of my right ear, which caused me to have a learning disability. I can't hear that well. I couldn't read or write well. And every single person that I encountered throughout 25 years of going to school was like, "There's no way you can go to medical school. How can you, you know, do that?" And I was like, "No, watch me. I'm going to show you." And so, >> let's go. >> And so, I was like, game on. That's what I always say, game on. And I was going to make it my mission to help people, no matter how many freaking brick walls that they hit, that they're going to get around it. And I always say my disability was basically my prep work to entrepreneurship. Because while everyone else could just easily go straight through, I had to learn ways to keep going around and around and around and around. And that is what makes I think a very successful entrepreneur is being able to pivot quickly, not get discouraged by all the nos or the I can'tss and keep going um and moving to whatever that goal may be. And so I really like to push people, move people, motivate people because I see so much full potential in so many people before they even see it themselves. And I love just using that gift of trying to move them. And I also like three years ago I had the skin issue which you guys can probably see on my face and um it it was staff infection from micro needling and Yep. >> Wow. >> And I have to show up every day on camera and you know to do Instagram videos and to do all the promotions and all that kind of stuff. And so I had to make a decision to do I show up without makeup on my face or do I show up and you know have makeup every single day on my face. And I was like well I'm not going to put makeup on my face every single day. It's just not going to be the case. So I had to make a choice whether or not you know I'm going to just fearlessly put my face on camera or not. And it limits me. I couldn't work out for three years. I couldn't see sun for three years. Um it's getting better now but yeah it's been a big issue. And so I've just learned that screw it. I'm going to show myself on camera without makeup. So I'll come on camera with my hair messy, no makeup, whatever. And I actually had one of my uh students come in and say, "You know what? We invested in your program because of the way you showed up on camera because you're truly authentic." And I think because of the my ear ripping off and because of the things I've been through, I am just a fearless leader because I've been able to just navigate all the challenges that have come. And I think that just really brings the best out when I coach people because I'm like, "Okay, you have this issue, no problem. We're going to hit it a different direction." So, it's very customizable when I coach people. It's not just like this is a coned class. Um which in medical school, you know, um everything's by the book. That's not how I coach. It's very um customized and uh systematized. So, >> dang. Okay. Number one, so relatable. Now, now people are like, "Wait, if she had all that, I can absolutely do whatever I want to do, right?" So, super inspiring, super relatable. You you're instantly one of my favorite people. I just love the way your enthusiasm plus what you've been through. >> Yeah. >> That's what you struggled with when building your business. What are your ideal clients struggling with right now? Where do you see them stuck? >> Yeah, a lot of them don't have self-confidence. That's a big thing, especially because I work with a lot of women. They need confidence, especially even to show up on camera, to put their face on camera, to be able to talk and communicate. Many people in the medical world don't know how to communicate. We know how to give you the coned version of what we were taught and the manual skills and all that, but no one knows how to communicate. So this is my problem with medical world is yes we go to all these courses and we learn all these new techniques and we learn the most advanced thing but then how are you going to bring that to the public so that people actually know what you do how you do it and how you're going to help them. They don't teach you that. So that's what I teach. >> Dang, it's so good. Can you give an example of a student or a client? You don't share who they are obviously but yeah where were they really stuck and what specifically did you do to get them unstuck and what was the end result? >> Yeah. So, I worked with this specific client. She um is in a very small town in Washington. Like the airport's like five hours away. And she was like, "I live in a small town. I can't do this." And she was making uh $1,000 a month. And within two years, we got her to 70k months. >> Come on. Let's small town making $1,000 a month. Said, "I can't do this." And now she's making 70 grand a month. >> Correct. >> Let's go. >> Yep. Yes. It's amazing. >> What did you change? >> The the results that we get is freaking amazing. Number one, build their confidence up. >> Yeah. >> Number two, teach them how to communicate. That's huge. Number three, be able to um get them to get their voices out there and different modes of marketing, not just not just the traditional ways, right? Um so I would say those are the big the biggest things and just keep creating a community. The community that I build, especially for women, is insane because they all are like, you know, it's not just talking about our businesses. It's talking about what haird dryer did you use today look cute? What's your makeup look like? You know, >> very important. >> Very important, right? What outfit are you putting on to do this thing? Like um how's the relationship with the husband? Like all those things actually get you to show up better when those are good better in your business. And so just creating a community of that is just it's phenomenal and and just being able to elevate them. >> I love this. So obviously uh if a medical practitioner's listening and they want to work with you, how do they reach out to you and what should they do say? >> Yes. So you can find me on Instagram, pelviz. I will spell it pel v i b i z. So pelv biz. And you can just say hey I'm looking to start my business. Hey, I have a practice. And we do coach online and in person. So meaning brickandmortar. So if you're one of those, whether or not you want to do taotherapy, whether or not you want to start a actual physical location, we have successfully I've done it myself both to create seven figures on each practice and also helped u over 400 providers with their practices as well. And so yeah, just say, "Hey, this is what I need. This is where I'm stuck." and I will create a customized plan for you and a pathway so that we can get you on the right track. >> Dang. So good. And you have some awesome freebies. Yes. >> Um they're all right there in your Instagram link. You have one of them in particular that's literally like a a start here blueprint for people trying to get started. >> That's correct. Yep. It's called a Kickstarter kit. So if you guys are getting started or wanting to get started and you don't know um from a legal perspective and really kind of just all the ducks that you have to have in a row to get started, we have that right for you. So, if you want that, just again, just DM us and say, "Hey, I'm trying to get started." And and we'll send that over. >> Yeah. And that's what I love about that. It's the stuff. It's funny. I just said this in a different interview. It's the stuff you don't know that gets you in trouble. Right. And you mentioned the legal setup and all that stuff because what happens, you're like, "Oo, I want to do this business." And you just do the fun stuff, you know, right? >> And it's the stuff you don't know that you don't know that gets you in trouble, >> right? >> So, I love that. Definitely go get that resource. All right. Pelv Biz. >> Yeah. Pelby Biz. One word. >> It's all right there in the links. >> Yeah. All right. We have it in show notes so you guys can just literally scroll down on this show and click everything. It's super super easy right there. So Kelly, thank you so much for coming on. This is so much fun. You rock. Like not kidding. Thanks for taking the time come on and like explain what you do. >> You are instantly one of my favorite new people. Your enthusiasm is off. >> He lives for enthusiasm. So I love enthusiasm. >> I love people with enthusiasm and people that have been through some and still make no excuses. And you are the walking example of that. Enthusiasm. We love >> Well, we appreciate you being on so much. >> Thank you, guys.