Hi everybody. Welcome to another episode of Busy Girl Healthy Life. And today we're going to be making bacon and chive devild eggs. So this is the perfect addition to any holiday party. And I have to tell you that I am literally testing this out for a party of mine in 1 hour. So I'm going to see how quick I can possibly make this. So what I did was I boiled my eggs. I'm doubling the recipe because we have quite the crowd tonight and hopefully everybody eats them all. So, you can do that whenever you want. Double the recipe, take things out. Whatever you need to do, just make it work for whoever you're cook cooking for. So, I have already taken my eggs and boiled them and cut them in half. If you can see that. Really, really easy. Um, you're just going to boil your eggs, let these cool, sit in um a bowl of cold water. So next I'm going to add my spices and my no calorie sweetener. So I've added the no calorie sweetener. I have my garlic powder. I have my onion powder and some fabulous red pepper flakes just to add a touch of spice. So I'm going to add that to our mixture. So we have our Greek yogurt, our egg yolks in there. And now I'm just going to stir that up really really good. Um a fork kind of helps just because you can smash those egg yolks down. So, we'll just mix this up for a minute. And then what you're going to do, I've cooked my turkey bacon already. It was really, really quick. So, I know that when you hear bacon, you think really fattening, but I pretty much always substitute bacon with turkey bacon. So, I have my turkey bacon all set to go in here. I'm just going to mix this for another second. All right. So, I think that you're going to find that you might have some lumps in here. So, really use that fork and try to smash that down because I am finding that I have got to really mix this right now. So, you're going to definitely get a little workout on your arm and um it's a bonus in my book. So, I have my turkey bacon all cooked, and you're just going to fold this in to the mixture. Oh my goodness, this smells amazing. I promise you, I will be um taking the spatula into this bowl in just a second while you're not looking. All right. So, what you're going to do next, you have your ch your chives left out. That's the only ingredient left and you take your platter. We're just going to line up some of these devild eggs here. I'm just going to show you a few. Probably just enough to sample. And I take two spoons because whenever I'm filling something small, I'm just going to take the spoons and you just scoop them into your egg. So, I'm just going to fill these here. I know you're all drooling right now, so I'm pretty sure you're going to want to rush out and make sure that you have all of your ingredients for this because I'm not even kidding. I have been thinking about this recipe all week long. So, I cannot wait to sample this. So, the final touch. So Christmy, it's so fabulous. Little bit of green on there. So, you just take your little sprinkles of your finely chopped chives that you did and you put them on your eggs. So, I just did a couple, but look how absolutely beautiful that is going to look um for your party when you take that into uh wherever you're going. And of course, what do we always do here? We have to sample. Oh my gosh. These might be better than any devil egg that I've ever had. And I am not just saying that because I made these, but maybe. All right, I just have to cheers to you because this has been a fabulous, fabulous year so far. So, have a happy, happy holiday. Bye-bye.