 if you want to really be an industry leader, you have to show up, like, I would say more consistent than even some of the top people. I do four podcasts a week and I have for eight years and that's why I'm a top 25 podcast. If you want to make money off of it, if you want to build a business, if you want to be known in the industry, it's going to take a lot of work. It's going to feel very uncomfortable. There's going to be a lot of embarrassment. You're going to have to push yourself all the time. It requires for you to show up relentlessly. Well, Larry, welcome to the Earn Your Happy Podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you so much for having me. I'm honored to be here. I'm so excited we could finally make this happen because you are a big inspiration for me to follow on social media because I am always, always trying to get better with my content and it's such an evolution. I know everybody listening to this. It's something that doesn't necessarily get easier because you have to keep changing and it is such a form of personal growth and I've really just enjoyed watching the journey of how you've been really real, raw, vulnerable. You're someone that I follow because you're able to include your family, your kids, your husband, fashion, personal development, friendship, business. I do feel like that's a little more rare that actually when I think of you, I know you for all of that. I think you're fun to follow. Thank you. That means a lot actually. I think you're fun to follow for me for that reason is because I know that there was a big conversation years ago about the importance of niching down and I was just like, I can't niche down. I'm such a creative and this is my whole life. How do I portray that? We're excited to chat with you today and have you on here for all of my multifaceted creatives who have trouble niching down. Welcome. I love it. I love that you even started with this whole conversation about niching down because it's something that I've been really grappling with because you hear it a lot from a lot of people and not a real. It's such a personal decision. God knows that if I would have listened to this niche down, I probably wouldn't have been around. I would have burnt out and I had no other source of inspiration to keep going. I'm really happy that I listened to my own intuition on this one and figured out a way to be all the things, all the ones. Okay. I love this. I love knowing that you struggled too. Did you have that moment where you're like, what the hell am I going to do? I don't know how to get into one topic. Listen, it was even for me a battle because I was asking myself, am I confusing my audience? Am I confusing new people that are coming in that maybe came in from the fashion and all of a sudden, they're getting served motherhood or personal development or all these other things and they're just kind of like, what am I doing here? Why am I following her? I've realized that that's a risk I'm willing to take because again, for me, when it comes to social media, it's all about consistency. We speak so much about authenticity and at the end of the day, in order for me to show up authentically, I have to show up with whatever that I carry with myself with that day. I can't just come up and start playing a role. It's just something that for me was inevitable. I'm either doing it this way or I'm not doing it at all. Great. This confirms. It could have been a really bad business decision. Thankfully, it turned out to be a good business decision because listen, I do see so many creators. We work with so many creators where I do truly see that their audience is very attracted to this one aspect of them. At the end of the day, if you want to turn it into a business and you want to have life put out of it, you have to take that consideration. At some point, you have to be extremely honest with yourself and be like, this is what people want from me. I got to give them that. I just always like to play even with those people that are so-called niche to always have the 20% that you can play with because, again, it's more of that fuel for you to keep going more than anything else. At the end of the day, this is such a creative space. If you set the creativity out of it, then it's difficult to continue going. Something I love that you do and I think creators do really well, big creators do really well is they always take us back and show us the timeline. I think it's really easy to think that people were successful overnight. It's so easy for me to think that I'm like, where the hell did this girl come from? She just popped up overnight. What is this? You've done a really great job of those almost like transformational before and after carousels, reels, like really taking us back through the beginning to be like, oh, she wasn't always this way or she wasn't always quote unquote perfect or whatever people are saying in their head about you. Tell me about the beginning because I want to know about that moment where you just started posting and you didn't know what you were doing and the transition of the moment of, whoa, I think this might be like more than just me posting. This might be a business. Did you start out thinking you wanted this to be a business? I had a few different kind of aha moments throughout my career and I'll start with the first one which wasn't necessarily aha in the business sense. It was more of a personal aha. I was doing modeling up until I got married and then we knew that we're going to start a family. I've realized that I can travel and work as much as they used to. I started looking into, okay, what is next for me? What am I interested in? I went into holistic nutrition. I got my diploma and I was like, okay, I'm going to do that. I've realized really quickly that I don't want it to be a physical to try to bring all that information and knowledge that I've gained to kind of a bigger audience. That's when it got me into actually blogging. That was already 2017 which was kind of late. I feel like the blogging era was really popping in 2010. I was like seven years late to that but that was my steppingstone to social media. While I was blogging, I was also sharing my blog post on all the mommy groups. Back then I was living in Toronto, in Toronto, in my neighborhood and I kind of got the people going to my blogs. Then what I've realized is that it was really fun for me because I was able to share the information but I felt like I was still playing it safe. That was kind of the aha moment for me where, hey, how can I take this sharing? Again, I don't see it really as a business. I didn't even try to look for clients. I was just like, I'm going to share it for free. How do I then use this to build my own confidence? Because at that point, coming from the modeling world, you are very much lack identity because you are, at that point I was constantly coming to shoots just being a canvas. I was waiting for the world if it's the producer, the production manager, the creative director to tell me who I am. I never had a true understanding of who I am. I've seen an opportunity when I started posting to be like, hey, I can really build myself here. At that point, I was already 24, 25, I already had two small kids. This is the time for me to really start taking, paying attention to that. That's kind of what brought me to YouTube, which was the first really real social media platform. For me, it was the answer to battling my own limiting beliefs, bringing forward things that I had knowledge in, which was nutrition, which was fashion, which was beauty. Using all that, and also, again, redefining or actually finally defining who I am and what my voice is. That was my first moment, what got me to social media. When I started, because I didn't really have this need or understanding that this is really an industry, I didn't care so much to grow fast or I didn't even think about it. If I'm taking you now forward, I would say maybe a year in. I started doing it consistently. I taught myself how to edit, how to upload, how to do all these things, started negotiating small little deals that came to me through YouTube. The year, I would say, 2018, my husband, Gary, who's now my business partner, came to me and he's like, listen, we got this check in the mail and it's for a large number. I asked everyone that I know and none of it came from me. Do you maybe know what it is? I was like, yeah, it was the sponsorship that I did. He's like, excuse me. At that point, he was like, what are you doing? Because he wasn't even aware that I was doing anything to do with social media. He would leave to work, I would put the kids in daycare, and I would do my work. What was Gary doing at the time? At that time, he was working with Facebook. It was kind of like a viral news type of platform. He had an understanding into social media, but not to that extent, not as a personal brand. He was working mostly with celebrities. When he started seeing what I was doing, he's like, okay, this is the media of the future. What you're doing right now is you're building something that everybody will have to have in the future. He was talking to a 26-year-old who was in my opinion, I was just making recipes swirling in my bedroom with dresses. I'm like, okay, this is the media of the future, fine, I guess. He really sat me down and tried to make me understand that this is a huge opportunity. And do you want to bet on yourself? That was the next Ahamu-minsum. Because all of a sudden, now it was a business Ahamu. Now it's like, okay, this is no longer about just me trying to build my confidence. This is now like, are we making this into a business? Am I going to believe in myself? And do I have what it takes to do the amount of work and whatever it takes? Because I know my husband, Gary, is extremely intense. If he puts his mind into something, it's all or nothing. And at that point, when he asked me that question, he's like, if you say yes, can I be your business partner? And I'm like, okay, obviously there was no other person I would do it with but my husband. And that was really the beginning of Valeria Inc, which is the corporation we started. And we started operating it as a true media company, even when it was one employee and then the second employee. And then really building an infrastructure around me while learning, right? Like we're building the plane while flying it. Because again, it wasn't an industry that A was defined. I didn't even know where to look for talent, you know, to come and work for us. And we had to train a lot of people through our own experiences. So we had to first do all the jobs in order to even understand what is needed and what it's called. We came up with most of the titles, honestly, pulled them out of nowhere. And yeah, and we just really figured it out and started building on top of it. Again, it was truly a combination of all our past experiences that kind of created this amazing opportunity for us because Gary was also an exited entrepreneur. And he, you know, he knew how to grow a company from zero to in one year, he grew his company from zero to 400 employees before selling it. So he had all that information. And all I needed to do is really first of all, learn how to work with my husband, because that's a challenge on its own. And then also believe in this vision, right? And what it could be. And I thought it was just so ironic that this is what was in front of me, me, somebody that like my biggest, I feel like challenge was to first kind of buying into myself, you know, and believing in myself in order to make this happen. So those were really kind of the two moments that define, I would say, my career. So good. Okay, I have so many questions about that. So what was one of the main beliefs that you had to get over in your head that you had to like replace in order to go all in? And then I want to know what all in looked like? Well, I think the biggest thing, and again, this still shows up. And I think it shows up for a lot of creators is like, who cares? This is not valuable. What am I talking about? Is this discounting of your own words, experience, things that you share, because, you know, you can always point to someone else, some kind of expert or whatever and be like, I'm not as qualified. I'm not as knowledgeable. I'm not as pretty. I'm not as whatever. Right. So this comparison game is constantly there playing in your head to kind of diminish your own light. So that was my biggest thing. And that's something that I battled with as a child. Right. So I brought everything with me into this. And I really had to change that mindset into, you know, this is my unique perspective. I am not an expert. And I always repeated it to myself. I'm not an expert. I'm a vessel. I'm a vessel. Like I'm bringing the information and these experiences and whatever it is I'm talking about are coming through me. And some will find it valuable. Valuable others won't. But that's okay. That's not my job to decide, you know. So it was again, looking at what I do is I'm being used as a tool. And I think that really brought that humility and also just simplicity to what I was doing. What did all in look like? Because your husband's like, okay, if we're going to do this, we're going to do it. And I think it's really important for people to hear because I am still in the space where I know I'm not all in on social. And I have to figure out what that looks like, because we can get really consumed in different parts of our business. When I'm really starting to realize, especially talking to someone like you and when I look at people who are really successful, like social and getting out there and really using different platforms is like their number one most important thing because it attracts the eyeballs. And there's not a whole lot that can't be solved with more audience because you can tweak your message. You can, you know, get data on different things. You can relaunch something else. But if you don't have the attention, you really don't have anything. So what does all in look like? What do it look like at the beginning? Can you tell me a little bit about what that looks like right now? Well, I think it didn't change much from the beginning, I have to tell you. The all in meant that I'm taking the seriously. This is my career. This is not something that I do. I get up and I'm like, I'm feeling cute. I'm going to film something. No, like there's a very specific schedule. Every day I have responsibilities. You know, people rely on me. This has nothing to do with, you know, if the weather is gray or sunny, right? So that's number one. Going all in is also buying fully into it, even with the way you speak about it, right? I just, I still remember one of the first meetings that we've had when people started paying attention to me, we were called to this one agency that we're trying to represent me. And my husband came in, I went with Gary and my husband comes in and he sits down and he's like, listen, I'm very interested to hear your pitch. But before you start the pitch, I'm just letting you know my wife is like the next Oprah. I'm just letting you know. And those wars, like I wanted to die under that. You understand, right? Like, I'm just, I literally have like 15,000 followers. I'm like, Oh my God, please. But the conviction that he set it in, when they started pitching it, you could see that on their faces, they realized that they can't do a better job than what we can do. So it was just like going all in is also understanding and seeing the vision and getting committed to it. You know what I mean? Like saying those things out loud. It took me years to feel comfortable to hear him say it, let alone me starting to say it. I started saying it, not the Oprah part, but I started saying it only a couple of years ago. I'm in this business for nine years now, right? Gary's been saying it since I started. So it's a process, but that's all in. And honestly, once you have that conviction, you make very different choices that when then when you say like, yeah, maybe it's going to work, maybe not. I'm going to try, you know, just like with anything else, you're just there is no other way. Oh my God, that is so good. And such a good reminder. I mean, I was going to write something on my mirror. Yes, you write it everywhere. Yes. Okay. What did in the in the beginning and maybe it looks the same now? What did creating like or creating your content plan look like? I mean, there there is so much out there about your content plan. You should be a month ahead. A lot of creators like to plan like that day and post that day. What have you found because you do work with a lot of people you guys have a company called Creator Method that I actually joined and love it and watched all the videos. What do you think is some of the best ways to get started for content planning and figuring out what that should look like? Well, it depends because if you're in the absolute beginning, I think that the first muscle that needs to happen is you really just posting consistently and that's really whatever it looks like for you. If you can come into one video a day or two videos a week, at that point, like it doesn't have to be the specific format. So it just needs to be to train yourself to show up. That's number one. And then once you start showing up, you can start paying attention to what you speak on. You know, we talk a lot about gathering data and the data is really an opportunity to have a better understanding of what you need to lean into in your content. Some people start their accounts or already have their accounts going. They're part of a program that they have their niches. They know that they want to talk about psychology or about plastic surgery, whatever. And that's their main pillar. And then they can play around with different formats and really gather the data and be like, okay, this is what people want to see from it. And then it's really about scheduling, right? The content plan more than anything is like, you, before you're even able to build this, you need to gather all that information. So again, the consistency of it and what is realistic for your lifestyle, right? Because yes, you can hear people saying you have to post three times a day, we post four times a day, but I didn't start with posting four times a day. Now I can because there's a team around me. We have like systems in place, but me posting, I remember it was one YouTube video a week, and it was one post a day in the beginning was a must for me. And I probably followed it for like six months to a year before I emptied up and kind of, you know, made it into a different plan. And that's it really. And then you start playing around with the formats and you really see where your creativity shines, what you want to double on, what you what your audience want to see from you. So once you have all that information, then it's about, like I mentioned before, really is about scheduling. So for me, I've realized that coming off the weekend with the kids Mondays is not a time where I can shoot Monday is a time where I can I need to gather my my thoughts. I can have some meetings afternoon. I need to do a lot of prep work for the week. You know, so I'm being very intentional and conscious of how my plan my week looks like in order to make sure that my content plan is executed properly. So there's a lot of building blocks before you even get to the content plan. And I think that that's where a lot of people fail, because they do it the other way. Yeah, I just for anybody listening, like I have been really consciously working on this for about two years. Like I used to get away with back in the day, like I used to be able to just throw things up on Facebook, like I really built my audience doing Facebook lives. I did a challenge to be consistent. And I did Facebook lines every single day for a year. And that like really grew my audience, but it also kind of taught me to like be able to wing it. And so I was just able to really like kind of wing it and post content online. And then Instagram happened and I was like, what is this very cute content? So I'll tell you, I did okay. But the last two years has been like so amazing, but so challenging, like some of the most challenging, like things that I've done is try to figure out social media, what people want to see from me, how to, you know, get consistent, what should I be posting? So I'm still very much in that. But I will say what you said, like, a lot of the first year was just like trying to be consistent and figure out what the hell works and what I enjoy and what I'm good at and what I didn't like and like what comes easier, what topics. So it takes time. So if people feel it takes time, but I'm curious, like from what I broke down to you right now, where do you feel like it's not working for the last two years? I feel like I don't direct my content to our offers properly. And I'm not known for the things I want to be known for necessarily. It's like, I think they, I don't give enough information or teaching in my personal opinion on business mentorship. Like I show a lot more like lifestyley, but I want it to be filling my programs more. So, you know, you are, you're obviously not a beginner or in that category. For me, you truly are someone and I don't know if you've ever attended any of our calls, but that's something that also happens quite often with creators that already kind of build an audience and build an understanding of what they want to do. It's difficult for them to merge a few different pillars together, right? It's again, we're going all or nothing. If we're saying, oh, I want people to get to know me, we're going so hard into the lifestyle that we forget to kind of bring in those other aspects of the business or these other things and kind of, you know, mash them together. So, people then it becomes a bit black and white. It's like, here's a lifestyle content and then you get the other extreme like this is a business content and it's becomes too scattered even for people, right? Because it's like people get to connect with you through your personal content. But the magic of storytelling is the ability to bring in your expertise in that approachable lifestyle, you know, real way. And that takes a long time as well. There's also these stages in the, you know, for a content creator where they need to learn how they're able to infuse their messaging in a way that feels authentic and approachable, but they are still looked at as experts. It's, I'm telling you, it's so tricky. And like, so many people don't understand the intricacy of the storytelling when you have a few different things going on, when you're not just committed to one format and one niche, you know. So, it's definitely a struggle that I see a lot of people dealing with. Well, you're just reminding me to get on calls now. Get on calls. I just, I was just leading on call last week and it's amazing. It honestly inspires me so much. I want to tell you I've been in this industry for nine years and I am surrounded by so many successful, like pioneers and people that have been, you know, on social media for so long. But it's, again, the people that are in the, either in the beginning stages or even the more advanced stages, but have that student mindset that is the most inspiring, right? Because you can be in an industry for so long, you just become so closed off to everything, the innovation and how to think about things. You just kind of continue doing the same thing. And that's to me, the beginning of the end. So, I get so much inspiration from being around people that are still figuring it out because that's where the magic happens. And that's honestly why it was so, I was so eager to really make, create a method, a community more than just, here's an educational video for you, you know, one to three and go. Because that's just this industry can constantly changing. And if you're not constantly touching base with the people that are deep in it, you kind of fall behind, you know? I totally know. It's the same way in business, it's the same reason I love masterminds, the same reason I love communities, like your community is because you have to keep your finger on the pulse. And we learn so much from our students all the time. Because I'm like, wait, what are you doing? How is that working? Let me, let me go dig into that. And, you know, I think one of the biggest things with groups and why your creator method is so important and why just being a part of a group is so important is because it's really easy when things get hard to listen to what most of the world is saying. And that is things failing, things are hard, the algorithm sucks, this isn't working. When honestly, people are winning every single day, like they are winning everywhere. But now, truly, the world feeds you what you start thinking and what you start saying. And so if you think it's failing in the algorithm sucks, you're only going to see more of that. So I think getting in these groups is like vital. I've sworn by it my whole career. Because I never get sucked into thinking like, here it is, here's the beginning of the end, kind of like what you said. It's like, no, people are still winning. Let's just figure it out. The energy has just shifted. The algorithm has just shifted. Like success just moved. It didn't go away. It just moved. You know, the ability to be, you know, with other people and to really understand how to turn challenges into opportunities is where, like, that's what it's about for me. Because once you start looking at life in that perspective, whether it be content creation, whether it be any other thing that's happening around you, it's, that's when you, you know, figure it out. I can, I mean, just through your content, you're really great with merging your mindset, which is also why I love you because I'm so into personal development, business and fashion. So I'm like, Marie, she's got it all. But I love that you do carry that kind of like how you said it's this dance of trying to figure out how to have these conversations about like who you are with mindset mixed into maybe you're trying on an outfit and you've just dropped something about the way that you think. And so I think when you find a few people that you really admire to study them is so powerful. Like, why did I like her post? Why? Like, why is she, you know, she's another fashion girly, but why am I more attracted to her content than someone else's content? And I think that's been really powerful is trying to learn those little, those little nuggets. Well, I mean, listen, you're asking all the right questions. So you're, you're on top of it. It's great. Just wait, give me a year. Give me a year. Wait, I like it faster than that. So God give me six months. Great. Listen, I want to tell you from me a huge step, you know, you mentioned with the Facebook that you were you gave yourself a challenge and you did Facebook live for me that huge jump happened during COVID. Like for me, when the world stopped and everything was closed off and I was able to fully just focus on what I can put out there that can change and shift the, this dark energy that was around us. I woke up in the morning, I was jumping out of bed and just kicking everybody out of my room. And I was just creating content from 9am until 6pm. I was like, I don't even know what came into me, you know, and I never felt like that before. And by the way, I've never felt that force again, after COVID, it was just calling. But again, it's also this ability to recognize, you know, this is an opportunity. I'm going through a hard time. This is an opportunity. Something is happening in the world. This is an opportunity. That's what I'm talking about, you know, and you've done it with your Facebook lives and you build a community with that. I did it on Instagram during COVID. And I got to tell you that that time taught me so, so much because I was fully in experimentation mode. And it's from that year that I've learned that I need, I'm going to have a podcast, I'm going to write a book, I want to get into women's health, I want to, like, I still have a list of all these lessons and all these things that these visions that I saw when I was in that insane, slow state. So it's just amazing to see like when you really surrender to it, you're getting a lot of direction, you know? Yeah, even like the language that you just used, I think that's really freedom for people. I think in the beginning, we can tend to like take it so serious. I just talked to this woman and she was like, you know, she's trying to get online and she's a Pilates teacher and she was like, oh, it's just the game is different. You have to be so good from the jump. And I was like, no, that couldn't be less true. And you had said, you know, you have to, you have to literally, even if this means how you talk to yourself, like the parameters you give yourself, like, I am just in experimentation mode, like this whole year is like permission to suck. And like, make the post that still like I still am in this, I'm like, oh, that post got a thousand views. Oh, I'm going to leave that up. Okay. Yeah.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, serious walking around here. You know, this is a video game. Yeah, I would never show up if I had to be like perfect all the time. It would be my worst nightmare. Okay, so tell me about the four times a day now, because for people who are aspiring to get there for you, how have you kind of decided what that content is going to look like? Is it like as like clear as I'm going to post this type of post this type of post this type and this type through the day now it's very clear because now, like I mentioned, we we have systems and obviously it's still fluid because you never know things happen. Or if I have something that came, you know, up for me and I'm like, no, this has to be posted today. This is relevant for me today. We obviously still shift things around. But generally, in order for me to, you know, have time to be creative, operate a company, be a mom, do all these things. We have a lot of we do a lot of pre production, we do a lot of pre planning. At this point in my career, we have a huge bank of content and we use it. We use it to create new content out of old footage, we use it to to your point, you said something that I love that you love about me is the fact that I, you know, bring back kind of those origin stories. That origin story doesn't require me to get up and film something new. All of that is in the bank, right? And then where the creativity happens is for my team who is trained at this point, or for me to be like, hey, let's do this, let's tell this story, let's pull from 2017 and bring the 2022, you know, so that's where the creativity happens without me constantly showing up at creating net new content. And at this point, we do have this like different balance for different things that in the beginning of the year, I have a meeting with my content team and we're like, okay, what is happening September is my birthday month. And then we have the kids and then there's, you know, different holidays, like we also create different content plans based on the month. So that kind of already gives you a bit of clarity, you can kind of breathe where it's not like every day you wake up, you're like, Oh my God, what am I going to post? Yeah, there's a bit of a structure happening there that really helps to guide me and us what it is that we're creating and what we're posting, you know, Halloween coming up, I used to do because I loved it. I used to we used to create a lot of Halloween content because I used to also do YouTube much more with the fashion stuff. So we used to do all these like crazy productions. And, you know, so all of those things we took into consideration. Now it's shifting. It's a little bit different. But even, you know, even if it's not production for Halloween, it's the content, you know, speaking on Halloween on the podcast, right? So there's just like different type of things that we use to help us build kind of the plan for that month. Okay, so back to the four times a day. Have you always like, are you going to stick with four times? Like we hear so much about, Oh, you shouldn't post like another post close to each other because it cannibalizes that like what are your thoughts? I think all of that is nonsense. And I'll tell you why this is from our own experimentation and our own data gathering. It's nonsense because you I look at the internet and content like real estate, this is free real estate. So yeah, you can buy, you know, a building a year cool, or you can buy one building every day, the more content I put out there, there's more of me out there. So I was very much before and you know, I hope my husband hears that he said summer clothes, but I used to be very like, No, we can't post that much. It's like, it's not cool. It's too much people are going to get tired. And he's like, What are you talking about? And you know what, we've done the experimentation we posted once a day recently, we've done the experimentation when we did three and at the end of the day, impressions and numbers don't lie. The more you post, the more eyeballs you get, you know, the more you post, the more people come to your page. They want to, you know, I also because of the variety of my content, I'm bringing different people with every post. So to your point, I given when I plan my content, I'm not going to post comedy four times a day because that's not my niche, but I was both fashion, and then I will post humor, and then I will post a podcast. So you have like a little conversation there. And then I will post a throw back a storytelling moment, you know, I give I bring in that variety today, because that's where I'm able to post four times a day. But the more the merrier, but I don't want to say that and scare people because again, consistency is the most important. So whatever it is, if it's three posts a week, commit to it. Yeah, and I love that you shared, you know, some of your posts aren't things that require you. There's so many things that if you start looking at content from that perspective of going, how much of that does she have to like get ready for and do and how much, you know, for a while quotes worked great for me. And I didn't have to do much. I sat down for an hour would create 30 quotes, and then I'd be done for the week. So really looking at what could those other posts be? But I totally agree with you on that. Like I do want to work my way up to getting to that we're at like two for the most part right now. But I do four podcasts a week and I have for eight years. And that's why I'm a top 25 podcast. It is literally like, because there you go. It's so consistent, you guys, I don't want to scare people either. But also, you have to like kind of pick if you want to really be an industry leader, you have to show up like I would say more consistent than even some of the top people because at the end of the day, it's like, what are what are people going to like go and grab if they're podcast listener every day? I'm giving them four chances to listen to my podcast. If it's once they can go to somebody else for those other four or five days and same with you like, you know, I don't see all of your posts. But I will say it's been great that I see a lot of your posts. And that's only because you do for a day or I may not actually see you at all, even being consistent. So I 100% we can work up to you. And I think it's super inspiring. And listen, I think that a lot of people, again, this is where I'm going to reiterate this understanding of looking at social media as the business because working with creators, there's this there's a bit of a misconception and even there's lines are blurred where people look talking about Oh, I create content and you know, it's my outlet and creativity. If you do it for your own creativity and bring you your own, you know, like little DIY project, I am so for it. And then at that point, you only do it when you truly feel called to do it. But if you want to make money off of it, if you want to build a business, if you want to be known in the industry, it's going to take a lot of work, it's going to feel very uncomfortable. There's going to be a lot of embarrassment, you're going to have to push yourself all the time. Yeah, those are you can have one without the other, right? And I think because sometimes people share kind of their personal life and their own personal, you know, things, they feel like it doesn't require the same level of dedication and work ethic and like breaking through all of those challenges that social media brings forward. But it's with anything else, you're an entrepreneur, and you're constantly trying to stay kind of in the in the race in the game, you know what I mean? So yes, it requires for you to show up relentlessly. I always joke my brand coordinator, because we're working really hard on creating content. And I'm like, whoever says, like these influencers and creators don't have to do anything. I'm like, these bitches work harder than anyone else. Like, oh my god, the hardest job ever to show up consistently, when you don't feel good when, you know, things aren't going great in the world, when you have family stuff going on, just when you're not in the mood, when you're not creative, like, and you still show up, I think it is such a insane, incredible, like success muscle to build. It's so inspiring that you've been able to do it and that you show up for people and it's you're a really great person to follow for people who want to really grow into that. Thanks. So you've done so much work for people who want to work with brands like one of your base things is really helping creators work with brands. I don't know a ton about that. In regards to social media, working with brands, because everything I've done for social has been to sell my own stuff. But I am super curious and for everybody listening, can you tell me a little bit about if someone wants to also start getting involved with working with brands, what that looks like? Working with brands, that was kind of our monetization from day one, honestly, and when we started building the company, we've never invested any money into it. So we grew the company based on the revenue that I was making. And, you know, I'm very proud of that. And to me, why I even said from the beginning and why I refer to Valeria Inc as a media agency, because that's what I do. It's one thing to learn how to tell a story when it's your own story. It's a different kind of set of skills to have a brand come to you. And then you are taking the brand story and then your story into consideration and create something new out of it that you know, your audience will find valuable, you know, or they will be open to listening to it. So and that's kind of the magic of influencers. And by the way, that's how I also differentiate between influencers and content creators, content creators do their own thing, you know, you create content, whether it's on a massive scale or just, you know, for hobby, influencers is someone that can truly influence if they have the inability to influence on your buying, whatever you buy, whatever you listen to, whatever you read, that's influencers to different categories. And today what's beautiful about the industry, there's so many different variations of social media, content creators and influencers, you can truly choose from a lot of different categories. It's not what it used to be, you either are in the millions or you're nothing. That's not what it is anymore. So for me, that's really what I love. That's what excites me. That's why we double down on working with brands. But it's really about selling, you're pitching, you're bringing in an idea to these brands. So how do you start working with brands in a very simplistic way? You have to start engaging with them. And the engaging with them comes from tagging them, you know, you use products every single day, we all do. So it's really about first getting on their radar, use social media, use the product, you tag them, you constantly tag them. Today, these brands are very smart, they track everything they see when you know, people truly use them. And when it's just, you know, whenever they get these anonymous emails, and they see that the person that is asking for a job from them actually never mentioned the brand. So it has to be a very authentic kind of approach to it. And once you done that, you really get into kind of their, their rotation, it can start as a gifting, then it begins into like, Hey, you want to do something? I have this great idea. And, you know, something that we champion a lot in our creator method community is you are your own ad agency, you can pitch, you don't have to be this like silent player where whenever they come and give you a campaign or job, you're like, Okay, like you don't wait until people come to you. So if you truly have a story, you have an, you seek an opportunity, how you can bring in a brand story into your own story, you reach out to them, like, Hey, guys, this is who I am. This is what I do. This is my reach. This is how I see our stories can collide and how it can be beneficial for my audience. And listen, magic happens, we have some brand partners that been with us for six years, seven years, and they really became like, you know, such a huge part of our organization. And these are brands that I love and we grow together. And there's a lot of opportunity out there for content creators that are interested in getting into the spaces and working with brands. There's a lot of opportunity there. But they also need to learn how to show up and how to start those conversations, you know? Yeah, I love it. There hasn't been a conversation yet where people are like, How have you, how'd you get to work with this person? Or how did you get on this person's radar? It's like, well, they added value first, like they talked about the product first, they, you know, shared their podcast multiple times, they got people enrolled into their group, like, so much about beating the first person to take action and adding a lot of value is literally always, I think, always the best way to go. So I love that. So tell me about from a brand perspective, how does a brand work with you? So I have a brand that I released like a year and a half ago, it's a skin and gut daily beauty supplement, almost like a hydration packet that you pour into water. If I and we just started working with influencers recently, what does that look like from a brand perspective to go, you know, into your company and work with different influencers. And what do you think from or for a brand is the most like powerful right now, because I know it used to be like, Oh, you want to get it with these really big people, but I heard there's no lift there, but that's like overarching for awareness kind of tell me what you think of that. Yeah, so that's also something that is part of Valeria Inc. We do a lot of consulting for brands that are trying to understand what's their best influencer strategy because it is we've seen so many mistakes in the market that small brands do throw so much money into things that really do not move the needle. Number one thing and again, you know, why we also really building out now the founders as kind of corner and creator method is because I truly believe that if a founder builds their personal brand, it will be the best for the brand itself, right? Because no one can speak to your mission to your product to everything that you put together with your own bare hands, better than you, right? And the founder itself. So that's something we always champion and I have so many examples of brands that are currently in Sephora and Alta and all these places where the founders took a back seat for operations and now all they're focusing on is building their personal brand, because they want to build towards a sale, right? And they know that if they elevate their personal brand, they can elevate the brand itself. And that's where the magic happens. So it's even happening with brands that already have huge revenues and well known in the month. So that's first for you to know the second thing. I think that, you know, it's a very living and kind of moving thing with influencer marketing, because in different stages of your business, you need to know when it's time for conversion and when it's time for awareness. And unfortunately, there's a lot of small brands that understandably so that are constantly looking for conversion because they need to sell. And again, I understand. But you reach kind of a limit to conversion when you're not simultaneously building the awareness. And this is again, right, when I was talking about different type of influencers, there's categories of influencers, there are your conversion influencers, you know, a lot of conversation right now around micro influencers, those are great. They have super engaged communities. If they're even niche ones, they can be amazing for conversion, smaller influencers, they can be amazing for conversion. And I'm talking 5000 to 10,000 followers, but then they won't give the awareness and branding job like a big influencer can give you. So you know, even when you're building kind of your influencer marketing plan, keeping that in mind, okay, right now, during this, you know, time of the business, we're gonna invest in a couple of big influencers, boost, get our names out there. And then through them, we can now gift a bunch of big names can help you get into a larger amount of smaller influencers. And it's kind of like a machine that feeds itself. So I think what the misconception that happens a lot of the times is that brands will kind of throw money at big influencers and hope for conversion, or they throw a lot of money into micro influencers. And then they kind of cap at some point with sales, you know, so that's something that the balance have to really be thought through and constantly kind of reshuffled. Depends on kind of where the business is at. Okay, what else are you excited about within Valeria, Inc? Oh, my God, so many things. So many things. To me, I'm very passionate about Creator Method. I want to continue building it and providing truly like a new, not even new a playbook to this industry. I feel like there's missing a lot of grand rules. I think a lot of creators don't understand their work. They don't understand the kind of entrepreneurs they are, and what kind of businesses and opportunities they have in front of them. I want to change that I want to advocate for creators to advocate for themselves, right? At the end of the day, every time we get on these calls, I'm like, I'm not here, I'm not, I'm not preaching anything. You're not you don't have to follow, you know, every single thing that I say what I'm trying to do is change the way you think, change the way you perspective, you're able to identify those opportunities and identify those moments where you can stand up and ask for something or how to ask for it or how to, you know, look at different content opportunities, things like that. So I want to really continue fostering that within our community. And yeah, and I think that again, there's so many amazing things that are happening in social media world, you know, we have so many people that are between the classic surgeon and the and the therapists and all these things that they are their own billboards, they are their own advocates for their businesses. And, you know, we have some creators that an expert that's seen like 80% surge in their business, right, because of social media, because they started showing up, there's really no barrier to entry. And that's what I'm trying to get people to understand. So I feel like there's a lot to do there. And yeah, and I think that again, we're in the business of constantly looking and finding new opportunities. So if you ask me next week, I'll probably have Ken more to tell you about that's where you're like, anything new you want to show me yet? I feel like this is why you these are why I do calls every month. Just update you exactly. Okay, what advice would you give to an aspiring content creator right now? That maybe you wish you had an aspiring one? Who's doing it but wants to really grow? I mean, I think that it's back to basics. I think that there's a lot of noise, there's a lot of conversations, there's a lot of advice from a lot of different experts. And at the end of the day, you really have to make sure that you build a strong foundation, you know, and build those muscles of resilience, consistency, and muscles of creativity, creativity is also a muscle. I think that a lot of people just like, you know, we used to speak on motivation, where you just kind of like, wait for motivation to hit you, it doesn't hit you, you know, you need that discipline is the same thing with with being a content creator, you need that discipline in order to build on top of that. So when you are focused on that, I think that chances for success gets higher. And you really learn to then notice the smaller things. You know, and again, the learning how to read your data and learning how to understand your audience and learning and constantly improving your messaging and what is your voice and what do you stand for all these things come when you show up. There's really no other magic pill. Yeah, okay, I'm gonna end with a little speed round of questions. Favorite part of working with your husband? That we can truly celebrate our wins together because he's so he knows what every single win entails. And it's amazing. And also the low points, you know, we can really understand each other and relate to kind of the difficulties. And I think that's very special. Okay, hardest part of working with your husband. Quieting the ego and really understanding that you both are working for the same goal. I think there are certain times where sometimes it feels like it's you against me. So, you know, being able to really look at it from that perspective helps. A lot. Favorite thing to do with your family? We love honestly going for walks, watching movies, simple things. Same, same. Are you match our coffee? Coffee. Coffee. Dressed up or come to fight to be the match girl it doesn't it's not working for me. I know I tried except I have a coffee shop near my house that's really nailing it. So we'll see they're converting. They said dressed up or comfies? Depends where. Same. Same. Okay, favorite food. I would say french fries and sushi. Okay, thing you are most excited about right now just like in your life. Is there anything that when you have downtime, you're just like, I can't stop thinking about this? Uh, paddle. What about? Oh, my God, really? I haven't tried it yet. I'm really into it and I feel like it's been such a busy month. I didn't have a chance to play and I'm just so eager because I'm so new and it's so humbling and I just love it. Okay, I'm a huge sports girlie. So I love that. And I think for people who are really busy like entrepreneurs, there's nothing like pickleball, snowboarding, wake surfing stuff where you cannot think about anything else but being in the moment. So I love that for you. Okay, I'm so happy that you came on and I'm so grateful for you that you shared everything. Where can we find you, follow you? How do we join Creator Method? Thank you so much for having me. You can find me at Valeria Lipovetsky on Honestly Everywhere and then with Creator Method, it's creatormethod.com to learn more about our community and what we do and what we're about. Yeah, I'm so grateful for you and you guys, I'm in there as well and I will link it up in the show notes. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.