This podcast is sponsored by the following sponsors. The Real Real. Buy and sell luxury clothing, bags, and more on The Real Real. Get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. Shopify, the e-commerce platform I trust for Glossy. Sign up for your $1 a month trial period at shopify.com/happy. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit northwestregistered agent.com/earn Airbnb. Start making money by listing your home on Airbnb with the support of an experienced co-host. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/host. Get Notion mail for free right now at notion.com/earn and try the inbox that thinks like you. That's all lowercase letters. Notion.com/earn to get notion mail for free right now. The more you are in your own frame of reality, the more you are in your own body, the more magnetic you are. The more you tune to other people from what do other people think of me? Are they approving? Do they like what I'm saying? The more your energy is scattered. Pulling the energy back is the most magnetic thing you can do. Whether it's inside of your own body, whether it's pulling your energy back to your own frame of reality and what do you value? And that's why when someone's in their own frame, it's so attractive. When someone believes something, even if everyone else doesn't agree with what they're saying, but if they believe it and they hold present with that, it's attractive. Hey everyone, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Today's episode is another throwback, one of my favorite conversations. And you guys know that I've had this podcast for eight years. So, if you're newer to the podcast, I have literally recorded over 1,400 episodes, you guys. So, I want to make sure that you don't miss any of these super amazing, juicy conversations that I have chosen just for you because I can't tell you about the wealth of knowledge that is in this freaking catalog of throwbacks. I don't want you to miss it. It's truly what has changed my life and helped me on my journey of growth in entrepreneurship, in relationships, in personal development. And I know that these messages are going to hit you in the same kind of powerful way that they hit me. So, I hope that you love this one as much as I do. And let's get started. Today on the podcast, I have someone who I got to uh get together with all the way back in oh my gosh, I think it was like November, but now I get to relisten and get reminded of all of just the the great conversation and lessons that I got from Aaron Dowy, who came on the podcast, you guys. He's a spiritual teacher and YouTuber with a community of over 1.5 million subscribers. His mission is to empower others to recognize their innate high vibrational nature and free themselves from the pain and negative experiences of their past. He's a great teacher because he really talks about everything in day-today life. And he makes it tangible and understandable about how to shift your energy and how your personal growth, energy, and mindset directly impact the growth of your business. Because, you know, no matter who I'm talking to, I tend to ask, "Okay, well, how does this impact our business?" I always want to know that because I feel like life and business are so correlated and business is just like one of the biggest personal development journeys that we will ever go on. Erin and I talk about how to own your unique gifts, change your money mindset, and how to use visualization to attract your goals. I'm a huge visualizer. Whether uh you're looking to grow your business, deepen your spiritual practice, or simply become more magnetic in all areas of life, you guys, this episode is for you. And while we also dive into spirituality, breathing techniques to feel centered, and how to let go of external validation to be able to show up as your authentic self, we also talk about how to practice personal self-care. Because it's the little things that impact your life in a big way. And speaking of the little things, that's exactly why I created Glossy, which is a skin routine that you can drink. It is a skin and gut daily beauty supplement. If you have not tried it yet, I am all about the little things that make a big difference. And great skin and a flat tummy and not feeling bloated comes from good digestion. So that's why we went with a probiotic that has over 30 clinical studies. That's also why we were super selective about the other ingredients that went in here as well. I'm telling you, you guys, don't take my word for it. Go and read the reviews. Go to get glossy.com. ge tg g l oci.com. If you want something simple that's going to make you drink more water, going to make you feel better, going to make you feel less bloated, going to help with the appearance of fine lines and make your skin look super glowy, go try this for 30 days and let me know what you think. Getsy.com and for 25% off, use code happy and I hope that you love it. Let's get into the show. Erin, I'm so excited to have you on the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you for coming on. Thank you for having me on. I'm excited to be here. I Okay, guys. So, this whole conversation right before I was kind of I always like to know like what is on the heart of the p the heart and the mind in that moment of the person who's coming on. And I'm so glad that I asked you because I had these other questions down for you. And we started talking about business and how much you love business and also just how kind of your personal growth and your spirituality and all of the things will show up in your business. Yeah. It's like the biggest I was just talking about this saying when you sign up for starting a business or being in entrepreneurship like it is the biggest personal development course you'll ever take. for sure in your entire life. It will bring up all of your Yeah. It will bring up everything for you like all at once. So many layers to it. So many layers. So I can't think of a better person to actually talk about this with. And you know, something big on on my heart right now is like learning how to be the magnet for my life and my business. Yeah. And so I just like consuming your content. You have so much great information. And what I love about you is you're really good with quick delivery, quick information on really tangible ways. Yeah. To shift your energy. And so for all the entrepreneurs listening as well, this is going to be a great conversation for them because you had mentioned you can only grow or your business can only grow as far as you're willing to grow. Yeah. Yeah. I think everything in our life is a reflection of what we believe to be true and we get in life a reflection of who we are being. And anytime I've noticed within my own business if there's something that's stagnating or something that feels plateaued, I always ask myself where in my life or in my spirituality or in my my physical what aspects of my life have I stopped growing as according to who am I being? So one thing that I've always come back to is focusing on that. Where can I expand in my own spiritual growth? Where can I expand and let go of limiting beliefs? And as I've gone through the process of always bringing it out from the external because a lot of times we'll focus on the external. I need to change something in my business. I need to hire the right person. I need to let this person go. I need to fix this area. It's always on the external. And what happens is a lot of times that can be deceiving because it puts us down into a distraction where the external kind of like this symptom is a reflection of something on the inside that may have been priorly we may have been unaware of. So anytime I'm able to kind of go in and look at where am I not growing, where am I stagnating, what must I believe to be true to be experiencing this, you know, it's always a reflection of me. If there's something with my team for example that's not re that's not uh jing well I have to take responsibility for it and realize there's something that I'm doing within myself that is causing that to happen. So radical ownership radical responsibility for that and then I can actually look at that within myself and then see how can I communicate more efficiently how can I cast a better vision and get them bought in and have them excited about something that they feel like they're a part of. And a big part of what I've done is with the intention of really in a way starting a movement of people that are really passionate about transforming their life from the inside out, but looking at that spiritual component of how they can magnify what they want or magnetize what they want through their vibration, through their energy. So tell me about the first time that you started to have that awareness around it's kind of always you like you're always the person within your business. Did you always have a business or did you do personal development first to really learn about raising your vibration? So for me, the thread I'll take this back to is back I used to have a 9 toive job selling women shoes. And I know I talk about this a lot on my YouTube channel, but for years, for 10 years, eight or nine years actually, I sold women's shoes. And that was my identity. That was my reality. I thought equal to that version of me. I felt emotions equal to that version of me. I took action equal to that version of me. And that was my reality for 8 years. And the wakeup call was when I realized that that was my identity. That was my self-image. And that's how I saw myself. And then I started to ask myself different questions like who do I really prefer to be? How do I really choose to show up in the world? And I realized that that identity was somewhat inauthentic for myself. Like some people say, oh, you know, fake it till you make it or there's like a feeling of feeling fake or an imposttor syndrome. And I realized that not in a shame based way, but I saw that that was more of an imposttor me living in this nineto-ive job selling women's shoes, working at Barney New York. Not what felt off like what what felt imposttor during that time if you can name it. Like this is how I always felt internally. I felt like I was not living to my potential and I felt like I was rationalizing a lifestyle that I knew wasn't me. Yeah. So like me going to a nineto-ive job selling women shoes. I worked with someone there that loved selling women's shoes. And ironically enough, she was the top salesperson. She was so passionate. She would she was really good at getting people to open up accounts. Like everything they wanted her to do, she did a really good job of because she was passionate about it. Yeah. And then I'm looking at myself and having this also kind of like harsh reflection where a lot of the people I worked with, pretty much all of them, they were older than me by like 10 or 15 years. And many of them had just kind of gotten trapped into selling women shoes where they weren't passionate about it. We would talk about it and there they were. And I'm thinking to myself, you know, here I am like 27 years old realizing if I don't do something about this, that's my future. And 10 years from now, I'm still going to be selling women shoes. I'm going to get get paid commission, which I I enjoyed getting paid commission because I felt like I had a certain level of control over my paycheck, but I'm just not passionate about talking about shoes. At that moment as well, it kind of got a little bit contradictory because I was at the time I was vegan. So, here I am selling selling women's shoes that are Italian-made leather and there's this like value at the time I was vegan. So, I was like, it's like a major struggle. You're like selling something that you don't believe be passionate about it. I'm like, "Oh, this is great." And that was a big reflection to me that who I am being is not in alignment with who I really am. And in February of 2017, that's when I made the choice that every single day on YouTube, I'm going to make a video until that's my reality of being a YouTuber. I kind of just made a choice that this is who I'm going to be. Had you seen someone like that you liked that was an inspiration? Like what made you There's a few threads. So, I remembered this time when I was working in uh 2012, working at Nordstrom's in women shoes, and I read a book that somebody recommended. I don't remember if it was Wayne Dyer or it was uh Tony Robbins, but it was a book called Psychocybernetics. Have you heard of it? I've heard of it. I haven't read it. It's such a powerful book, but it's all about the psychocybernetic mechanism inside of oursel for our self-image and how we see oursel. And one thing I realized when I was selling women shoes at Nordstrom's was every day that I would go into work, I would go in and we would check the sales numbers from the days before. And on those sales numbers was everyone's numbers. And you had to hit your numbers. And I always noticed that I was always right in the middle. So as I'm learning about this thing called our self-image, which we all have, which we will do anything we can subconsciously to remain consistent to our self-image. And I'm like, what is my self-image? where I realized that working that nineto-ive job, I am an average sales employee. So I'd go into work every day and see the day before I was always right in the middle. Wasn't at the bottom. Wasn't the worst salesperson, but I wasn't the top. The two top people were always the top. Yeah. So I started asking myself, what would the version of Aaron that's a top salesperson? How would he think, feel, and act? How would this version of me greet customers? Would I greet customers or would I be selective? Sometimes people that worked in sales, they would selectively greet customers they thought were going to buy. And I realized that the version of me that was the top salesperson greeted every customer. Didn't profile, greeted everybody. The that version of me, I realized also did this this almost dumb little thing that I still use in different ways today. But I would do this thing to where after a customer had already bought, I would wrap up their shoes. I'd put tissue over the uh the box and I would walk it around like we're supposed to do to the the customer. But the act of putting the tissue over the box was a permission slip for me because it helped me wire in that you are a top salesperson. No one else did that. It was such a stupid small thing to do. Yeah. But just putting the tissue over the the uh the box inside the bag, it showed me that I go above and beyond for customers and I would do it. And they also maybe just felt there was a little bit more care I was putting into it. But I started greeting every customer. I realized that I was more so focused uh than focusing on trying to get from customers like I want someone to buy. I would focus on how can I add value and then as I started having that intention to add value it was like a more authentic energy. I noticed that version of me also was showing more of my personality. So I was focusing more on connecting with people than just getting the outcome. So all of a sudden I see myself as a top salesperson. I am greeting every customer. I am uh I realize that version of me didn't just bring out the one shoe they asked for. That version of me brought out two or three other had the courage to offer other things to them. Yeah. All of the sudden I go from being in the middle of the list to being at the top of the list within days. Wow. And it was cuz I saw myself as a top sales person. I was being that version of myself. I was adding value and I had these intentions that were just I think also much more pure. So, fast forward from 2012, 2017, working that 9 toive job I don't like. I'm like, well, if I was able to go from a mediocre sales employee to uh more of a top sales employee back in 2012, why can't I use that same thing that I learned about who I'm being to go from a 9 toive jobgo selling women shoes to being a full-time YouTuber? So, what I did is the same kind of technique. What does the full-time version of Aaron, how does that version of Aaron that's a YouTuber think, feel, and act? What are the skills of that version of me? How do I show up? Um, what are the focuses every day? And I realized a couple things. One, I realized that that version of me had a lot more leadership, was was somebody that had to be self-m motivated because the nineto-ive job going version of me got told what to do. I didn't like getting told what to do and I resisted it. But still there was some level of safety in being told what to do. Absolutely. I feel that. So what I had to do was let go and realize that I have to be the one to motivate myself. And there was almost this meditation thing. I don't even know how to describe it, but I was in meditation one day and I was actually moved back in at my dad's house cuz I wanted to give this YouTube thing a go. Mhm. And I had this download or this idea that if I made a video every single day on YouTube, my life would transform. So in February of 2017, made a choice that every single day, no matter what, I'm going to make a video. And that's what I did. I made a video every single day. And within uh 3 to 6 months, my whole entire life began to transform. And that version of me, I realized, also had to learn different skills. That version of me had to learn how to edit. That was one thing that held me back. like I don't know how to edit. Well, the first YouTube video I ever put out, it says like first blog post because I couldn't figure out how to edit it out and I spent like two hours. I was like, that would be me. Yeah, I'm going to put it out anyways, you know. And what I ended up doing is just learning as I went. Didn't have to have it all figured out. One thing that always remains sure when we're talking about magnetizing your energy and increasing your vibration and being a magnet to your desires, there's the ego and then there's like a higher self that channels through. And when your intention is on adding value to other people, it's like there's a different energy that flows through. When you have an intention, just like in my 9 to5 job, I want to add value to these customers. I did better than if I want to make money for myself or make a certain amount of commission. the same way when I had the intention at the beginning of just genuinely like authentically sharing my experience and like uh on YouTube and I I didn't I wasn't some guru at the top of the mountain uh selling woman shoes or anything when I'm like on YouTube. I was just sharing what I was learning having that 9 toive job but while I was like talking about in the YouTube videos about what I was learning with different law of attraction techniques with this job I go to where I start at zero every day. Yeah. You don't have to be a guru at the top of the mountain. However, when you're just one step ahead and you're just sharing what you're learning, people admire that and it's it's authentic. So, through the consistency of making videos and having this intention of adding value, it's like the more you step into that, the more ideas the universe sends you, the more people the universe sends you. And the more I stepped into that version of me, it was like people would ask me, "How do you how do you make daily videos on YouTube?" because I made daily videos on YouTube for 3 years straight. That's amazing. And people would ask me all the time, how do you do it? How do you do it? And I would say like almost like, I don't know. It just happens because it's a part of my natural identity. I make a video every single day on YouTube. It's not hard for me to make a video every single day. And because I had this intention of adding value, what happens is it was like the universe would send me those. As long as my intention is pure and and my intention is of like adding value to a collective, it's like the universe flows through to help you to add more value to more people. Now, the thing that you have to be tricky with this though is for myself, what I've had to learn is as I started to build a YouTube audience that has over a million followers, what happened is then there was pressure. It's like you have a million followers now. What in the beginning was just this natural flow thing so bad and I can do these videos and then now people are watching. Now people are watching and now there's kind of pressure. Yeah. You know that felt like there was pressure and what what I would flow through when it comes to this magnetizing energy thing that we're talking about. I was way more magnetic when I was making videos that I was just passionate about talking about where it wasn't tied to views. It wasn't tied to getting a certain number of attention, certain amount of views. And what I had to do is I had to become aware of that within myself and realize for a while I was stagnating. I stopped making daily videos about three or four years in and I started making five a week and then three a week and then for a while I was at three a week and then eventually I went to one a week because I was just getting burnt out. And also when we were talking in the beginning of this podcast, I was starting to stagnate. I realized that I was now in this comfortable identity of being a YouTuber, but it was no longer as fulfilling as this new aspect of myself that wanted to emerge. Yeah. So after about a year of just like of just being on YouTube and and realizing that it's not completely authentic for me to just be, you know, wiring in this YouTuber identity, I knew that my next step level for myself was doing live events. It was going in front of people in in uh in like live event format. And it was like the longer I was holding on to the YouTuber identity, the more resistant, the more blocks I was feeling. Once, funny enough, once I committed to doing live events, everything started to flow again. It's almost like the universe wasn't going to like give me and let me just kind of like pass by without personally growing with my within myself because it got like boring to make videos. You weren't challenged anymore. I wasn't challenged at all. I was just bored and it was like I was kind of like I would just try to make videos on things I was passionate about. But also I realized that once I started doing live events, I was getting into new uncomfortable energy that then was exciting. All of a sudden the the energy coming through and the content coming through is passionate energy. It's new. It's I'm I'm expanding myself and my I've always known that my audience expands the degree to which I expand. Amen. So, it's like if I want if I want like to have new groundbreaking content that I create or whatever that like comes through, I need to put myself in the unknown and grow myself. So, this last summer I did two or three live events back to back in Sedona and LA and I just picked these cool locations. My team and I had to adapt to, you know, having hundreds of people in a room and all these things. Uh, it's a whole other thing. Whole other world. But, funny enough, then what I did is I took content from that. I was telling you before we started this podcast, the content from that has done extraordinarily well on Instagram, IG reels and on YouTube and it's it's curious to me because it's like almost as long how I feel making the content is what the people feel that that are looking at the content. So if I'm stagnant and in this old identity of being a YouTuber that's just like talking about the same old things over and over again, you know, once you've made 1,800 YouTube videos, it's like how much new concepts are you going to create? But what I realized is I have to step out of my comfort zone and grow myself in order for me to attract in the new in order for me to also get into a more passionate state. And one thing I've always known is people feel what I feel. So if I'm not feeling it, they're not going to feel it. If I'm bored of talking to a camera, then they're going to feel that. So, how can I get myself and grow by also stepping into this new aspect of myself with the intention of still adding value to people? But as I've done that live on stage, it's completely changed my own sense of identity where now I see myself differently. Some of the challenge sometimes is in letting go of the old too. I think I could probably make less YouTube videos than I am right now. But there's an aspect of myself that is probably afraid to let go just like there was an aspect of myself that was afraid to kind of let go of that 9 to5 job back in the day. So it's interesting how this whole game works but it's all a reflection of who I'm being. And for all of us it's we get in life a reflection of who we are being. And our business is a direct reflection of who we are being. Our audience is a direct reflection of how we're showing up. They're feeling what we feel. So putting it back on yourself, letting go of what no longer serves. letting go of the past patterns, letting go of the stories, it allows you to naturally raise your vibration to where then your energy is more magnetic. And something else I'll say as well before I'll bring it back to you. We'll see where this goes, but is uh the thing I've also been learning lately is to really own the things about myself that make me different. When it comes to marketing, I think there's this like comparison where I'd compare myself to other people in my niche and I'd be like, "Well, they're doing this and they're doing that." easy to do and it's this like trap almost of like then then trying to do it in my own way but it's still what they're doing and lately what I've been doing is just owning what makes me different. So when I do these live meditations something I'm very passionate about is tapping into collective live energy. So you do this online like what does that look like when you do that? It's it's a mixture of online or in person. Um normally it's online. I'll do these challenges or 21day challenges. It's the most successful thing I've done in my business. Wow. Um over the last like 5 years. uh know two or three years. I've done them about five times. Um but we'll get like three to 5,000 customers. They come in and they're a part of a 21-day experience and throughout those 21 days we do a lot of live guided meditations and the live guided meditations connect them to the group energy and it creates this like safe container and people have these extraordinary breakthroughs by using the power of group intention. So, we've heard of, you know, the mastermind principle from Think and Grow Rich where when two people think of a similar outcome together, they get a certain result. The idea behind this is what if you get 2, 3,000 people to think about a certain result? And what if when they're thinking about like everyone in this container having huge breakthroughs and creating their dream life or the love and the abundance or whatever, what if when you're doing it for them, they're doing it for you? And that's the kind of energy that I'm really passionate about working with. But it always was kind of esoteric and weird. Mh. And we do these things called M activations where we use frequency, we use sound to connect to the energy that kind of reverberates out of our bodies and into into reality. And we use it as a permission slip to connect together. They're kind of it's on the outside looking in it might look kind of weird, but in live in person, either in person like in LA when we did live events or on virtual on Zoom with thousands of people, there's a certain energy to to it that's very hard to explain. But what I've learned recently is that's what I'm owning. I'm owning these M activations. I'm owning these esoteric concepts that sometimes I was afraid to share on YouTube. And as I own it and as I know that I show more of that because it's it actually stands out more. There's not much competition when it comes to like, you know, live meditation experiences that kind of connect to this this energy in this way. There's no one doing it that way. So, it's like I get to be the one that that kind of takes ownership of that for myself and my own audience. But for a while, I would block myself from doing that because no one else is really doing that. So, I think a very important thing for anyone that's a entrepreneur or wants to be an entrepreneur and is looking on social media where we're comparing oursel to a bajillion people, focus more on what's authentic for you, but also what makes you weird or what makes you different is not a bad thing. It's what actually differentiates yourself from everybody else. And if you would just own it, it's an energy that's admirable. Even if people don't like it or if they were to look at what I'm doing, that's kind of weird, but like, well, at least he owns it. You know what I mean? At least he's he's real passionate about it. And there's a lot of uh I think there's a there's a a way of reframing that to relate to that in a little bit of a different way. So, when you're talking about that, because I've had to I've had to learn how to own different things in my career, too, that I'm like I think there's so many fears that can come behind that. So for anyone listening, you know, who has something where they're like, "God, I really want to do that, but I'm worried about, you know, maybe for you, I'd love to hear some of the fears. Was it like are people g going to think I'm a fraud or I'm charging people this money to like just do this spiritual thing that you don't get tangible results?" And like what were some of the things that you had to work through to own it? Because clearly it's your most successful thing. So if you had those fears, it wouldn't work, right? So what did that actual journey look like for anybody who's listening going, "Oh, I'm just like maybe I have to do sales online. maybe I have to whatever that looks like to really own that fear. I think for me, so we'll take there's a couple layers to this. For me, it brings me back in my mind to when I was first getting on YouTube and I was putting out Instagram content actually and I was so afraid to put out Instagram content. Not for the people that were following me from YouTube or Instagram, but for the friends, the 400 people I followed that were friends and family and friends from high school. Those people, that's who I was afraid of seeing. I'm like, they're going to think I'm weird. that who's this guy from high school that's now talking about these weird esoteric things. Friends and family are going to think I'm weird. That was what I was really afraid of. And for a long time I didn't share that kind of stuff. And then eventually I realized how ridiculous it was. I I realized that there were eventually there was 10,000 followers on Instagram and I realized that 9600 of them were people that liked and wanted to know what I had to say. But I was worried about the 400 people that were going to judge me or think that it was weird. So what I realized in that moment is that I was I was in a way holding and robbing the 9600 other people out from more content from more intention of adding value to them. I was robbing them and I was in a way robbing myself from expressing the real me. Mhm. So when I now get to that now even you know fast forward till now in these 21day challenges and everything I think a lot of it we can look on the outside of the symptom of all this but for me a lot of it comes back down to childhood. A lot of it comes back to caring what mom and dad think caring and not wanting to then their disapproval. And for myself what I've really had to do was go through a whole process of individuation. That's something I've been talking a lot on YouTube recently about. But individuating from mom and dad where I think a lot of empaths, a lot of people that are maybe identify with people pleasing. There's this pattern from childhood where we tune to mom and dad to know how do I have to be so that mom and dad don't feel tension so that mom and dad uh give me love in the form of approval or validation. So what happens is it's like a survival mechanism that we've that we've attained from childhood. Yes. And then what happens is later on in life, we're constantly tuning ourselves to everyone else to know how do I need to be so that I'm safe, keep the peace. How do I need to be to ease the tension to keep the peace in childhood in in the household or in life with friend groups and friends and people that are looking at me online? Exactly. Yeah. So the process is deeper than just like, oh, just think about the 9600 people. It gets down to how do I find my sense of safety? Is it tuning to everyone else? Is it tuning to my audience? Is it tuning to my family and my friends and my colleagues and all these other people? Or is it tuning to my own body? Is it tuning within myself? I had to go through a process of individuating from my mom and my dad where I started to see myself. I I wasn't praised growing up for having a different perspective. I wasn't. It was something that I kind of had to like like uh kind of like walk on eggshells around just just everybody else in order just to survive. So what I had to learn is how to feel safe in my own body. And then also I had to start tuning to my own higher values. How did you feel safe in your own body? What does that look like for someone? Now, what it looks like is there's this technique I have on on YouTube and I learned it from a shadow work integration coach that I had uh a couple years ago and it's a it comes from a zen technique, but basically I call it the frame technique and now I've made YouTube videos about it and there's it's gotten a lot of attention online and I get I I see from a lot of people that it's like transformed their lives and it's very simple practice. What you do is you stare at a candle flame. If you were to imagine there's a candle flame right here and what you do is on the inb breath when you take a deep breath in let's do that real quick. So and then you were to feel the separation between you can breathe. Yeah. How long do I hold it? You on the inb breath you feel the separation between you and the candle flame and on the outreath you still focus on the candle flame but you focus on the peripheral. So even right now as I look at you I can look at I can focus on the peripheral around you. M and then what happens is on the inb breath it's separation and on the outreath it's connection to everything. Now if you think about it like zeros and ones zeros is other and ones is self. Now empaths and people pleasers all they see is zero. All they see is other. Everything is about other. I need to make other people happy and they genuinely have trouble standing in their sense of power and their sense of self. So what happens is when you do this simple breathing technique where you stare at a candle flame or any object could be any object but you feel this separation in your body between you and that object you will start to feel more centered in your own reality and within yourself but then you'll also feel that other people's stuff is sometimes their stuff. So if someone has trouble setting boundaries, you look and you imagine someone that you bring to mind and you feel the separation between you and them and then you realize their disappointment is not your disappointment. If you're an empath, everything is other as zero. So it's like, oh, their disappointment is my disappointment. I'm responsible. Yes. So the process and the power of the frame technique is that you feel the separation between you and a candle flame, you and a wall, you and someone else. And as you feel the separation, you start to individuate from thinking that you're responsible for fixing everyone. And the funny thing is about this too, the more centered you feel inside of your own body. And here's the thing, you are more magnetic the more you are in your own body, the more you're in your own frame. When I learned about this technique, I was living in Sedona and I remember going out to the grocery store, just going to Whole Foods or even going for a hike and I would practice just being in my body and I would become aware of anytime I was tuning to the outside for uh wanting to know if I'm safe. If I was like walking on a hike and there were people walking by me and that past part of myself would have been like how like saying hi out of obligation to say hi even if I was in my own world and I didn't feel like it. What I would do instead is I just feel inside of my own body. And what was very fascinating to me is everywhere I went from feeling inside my own frame of reality, feeling safe within my own body. It was like people would want to talk to me, but it wasn't come. I wouldn't have to say anything. And it was like I was just good being in my own body, being in my own frame. It also brought me back to one time when I was in Costa Rica. I was at a life transformation place and there was this TED speaker, TEDex speaker that was uh talking and she she uh was teaching about the same idea where what she was doing is at the front of the room she was asking everyone to send energy. Send energy to the front of the room. Send energy to the front of the room and everyone was sending energy to the front of the room to her. And she said that when that happens it's like it makes you want to back up. Like it makes it repels you when people send energy at you. Then she said, "Okay, now everyone in the room bring the energy back in your body. Bring it back in your body. bring it back to yourself. And as she does that, as everyone did that in the room, she's it's like a magnetic pull that was pulling her to towards the audience. So what happened and we do this at these live events that I run where we'll get people in a group that will do this with each other. And it is so powerful because you realize the more you are in your own frame of reality, the more you are in your own body, the more magnetic you are. The more you tune to other people, the more you're you're looking for safety from from what do other people think of me? Are they approving? Do they like what I'm saying? The more your energy is scattered. This is why when people want someone something from someone else, they think of someone else. They're literally sending their energy towards someone else and it's scattering their energy. And what does it do to that person's energy field? It's intrusive. Yeah. They can feel it, right? It's it's We've all had it happen before. Yeah. And it's it feels manipulative, right? If someone wants something from you. Yes. Totally. So pulling the energy back is the most magnetic thing you can do. Whether it's inside of your own body, whether it's pulling your energy back to your own frame of reality and what do you value? And that's why when someone's in their own frame, it's so attractive. When someone believes something, even if everyone else doesn't agree with what they're saying, but if they believe it and they hold present with that, it's attractive. This is so interesting because it's a little bit opposite about what we learn about law of attraction in a way. Yeah. just where I feel like people think that they have to like hold that thought and hold that person and hold that vision and keep holding it. And I think that it it feels like to me now in my life I feel like a magnet right now in my life. And I think that is because of what you're saying. I've never had words to put to it where I've fully gotten into myself. Yeah. And been like I'm just going to focus right here on the things that make me happy and how I can be. Right. So can you describe that a little bit? What are your thoughts around that like with law of attraction with individuating? Have you thought about that? Yeah. I mean, I think the law of attraction, a lot of people want what they want. You probably want what you want now from an authentic place from like your took me a while, but yes. And it because in the beginning of the law of attraction, what do we want, right? We want the right house. We want the perfect partner. We want all these things. And of course, if we want it, it's I want that over here, right? Which we don't already have it. You know, once I think you've also obtained a little bit of success and you start asking yourself what's important to yourself, it's not you cuz you realize like you're successful. So, you know that even if you buy a new car or a new house, it doesn't really make you happy. Like, so what does make you happy? I'm guessing it's this. It's when you're when you're expressing yourself. It's when you're doing what you love. It's when you're adding value. It's when you're on stage. Like, it's when you're when you're collaborating with your other friends. Like, that's more probably more fun. And it's not just an outcome. Yeah. So what happens I believe is when we get to our true authentic core of who we are, it's like we value more so the process than the end result. I'm so excited to share this. You guys know I never shy away from big scary leaps, those super messy what the heck am I doing moments. And this is Small Business just kicked off a new season and it's all about risk. You know I'm obsessed with this topic because that's what it takes. The host, Andrea Marquez, takes us behind the scenes with fearless founders who turn their maybe later ideas into heck yes, let's go adventures. These episodes have it all. They have raw stories of grit, honest advice, and so much inspiration. I got full body goosebumps listening. I was nodding along thinking, "This is exactly the kind of fuel we all need when chasing our big dreams." So, if you need that extra push to go after your own hell yes vision, you have to check this out. Go follow this is small business on Apple podcast, Spotify, or wherever you listen, I can't wait for you to hear it. Okay, if you're like me and your inbox is stressing you out and you need to spend less time there and more time in your business actually moving the needle, bringing money in, I'm about to change your life. Notion Mail is the inbox that thinks like you. Automated, personalized, and flexible to finally work the way you work with AI that learns what matters to you. It can organize your inbox, label messages, draft replies, and even schedule meetings. No manual sorting required. You guys, it has AI organized inbox. You can tell notion AI what's important to you. And it's going to automatically label them and sort them so that they arrive in the way that you want. Custom views for focus. Split your inbox into custom views like topics, urgencies, senders, or what you want to do to stay distractionfree from those emails that you don't want to give your attention to. You can fly through emails with something called snippets. It's a one-click email template where you can do different intros, you can do follow-ups. This is perfect for my podcast, you guys, because I get over 30 inquiries in my inbox a day. So, I can automate all of that. It can even include attachments and scheduling links. You can write beautiful emails faster. Get notion mail for free right now at notion.com. And try the inbox that thinks like you. That's all lowercase letters. Notion.com/earn to get notion mail for free right now. When you use our link, you're supporting our show, you guys. Notion.com/earn. When I first started Glossy, I was so overwhelmed. I felt like I had to do everything on my own because you do. and your to-do list just keeps mounting. But let me tell you, when you're starting off with something new, it just seems like that list is growing and growing and growing and it can quickly overrun your life. So, you have to start learning to find the right tools that can not only help you out but simplify everything. And that is a game changer. And let me tell you, for millions of businesses, that tool is Shopify. And I am included in those numbers. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world. and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started and I'm going to add mine to the list, Gloy. Get started with your own design studio. With hundreds of readytouse templates, Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. And you guys, I love my website so much that's on Shopify. Go and check it out. Also, Shopify is your e-commerce expert with worldclass expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into chachching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy.shopify.com/happy. And individuation is becoming self-aware of what that is inside of yourself. What really brings you joy, what really brings you happy. That's not necessarily an outcome, but you start living from that place. Not because of what gets you, but it's because it's who you are. One's a means to an end. One's an end of itself. And I think where the law of attraction sometimes gets it not wrong, but it's misunderstood is people want what they want because they think it's going to make them feel better when it's not about that. It's about who are you becoming? Are you becoming a leader in your life? Are you becoming someone that's in your own power? Are you becoming more loving? Someone that wants to attract a relationship there always, what do I want in them? What here's my list of what I want them to have? But not realizing what is it that you must embody those characteristics within yourself because you're only going to attract it if it's a one-on-one reflection for the energy you embody. Totally. And it's also a lot of times like when people go out whether it's attracting love, it's like what can I get from this person? If you have two people, one's like, "What can I get? What can I get from this person? Is this person a match for me?" It's a very taking energy versus you go out with someone that's just comfortable with themselves. They're just wanting to have a good time. If anything, they're checking up on you cuz they're good. Their cup is full. It's just a very different energy. So, always bringing it back to people feel what you feel. And if you're projecting your energy out of yourself, you're literally like energy is leaving your body and going towards them. They energetically feel that it feels manipulative. So bringing your energy back and focusing on giving yourself that which you think you want. What you think you want, you think will make you feel better. But the funny thing is is you can feel better right now. You can feel in that vibration and in that energy by focusing on gratitude for what you already have, by focusing on the aspects of yourself that you're nurturing to become. And as you do, you notice that reality changes as a reflection. So individuation is many times a thing that I think many people miss because otherwise they're going to like if an empathic person is like, well, I want to grow on social media. I want this. I want to make everyone happy. You're going to have those desires and you may not have those same desires once you've individuated because then you realize that you may still want to have an a message that has impact but you don't want it for the same reason. You're not wanting it because I feel safe when a lot of people agree with what I do and I feel validated cuz I didn't feel that in childhood subconsciously of course normally but then you you realize do I even care about the image of myself? Do I even want or need that validation or approval from other people? In fact, when I live according to the values of what's authentic and what's vulnerable for me, it feels way more authentic. So, instead of like I've shared concepts on my channel that are more polarizing and the old part of me would have been afraid to do that, but I do it now. Like even being vegan for example, for a long time I was afraid of sharing that I'm not vegan on my in. So, I was vegan when I started my YouTube channel and then I wasn't eventually. And then I was afraid to ever talk about it because I was afraid of knowing that a lot large part of my not a huge part maybe it's less than I think but knowing there's lots of vegans in my audience cuz I'm in the spirituality niche. I was afraid of sharing that. But then one day I made a piece of content talking about that. Like even as I share this right now, there's a part of me that's I don't want to cause you tension because you're not going to like the fact that I'm not vegan. I'm not who you thought that I was. And you might think that all these things, but then I that was part of the video lesson. I was like, this doesn't equal who I am, but also I have to detach from thinking that you are mom and dad, you know, and I think a lot of times we're trying to appease mom and dad and that becomes our audience, comes our business, becomes whatever whatever else in our life. And for me, individuating has made my content better. It's made my relationships better. It's made my energy better. It's made my it's it's made so many areas of my life better by empowering myself to be different, empowering myself to be safe in my own body, choosing my own values, and knowing that if other people don't like it, that's not something that's not my responsibility to make them happy. And sometimes the best lesson for them might be to feel that tension. You know what I mean? There's so many times I've made videos before that triggered people and people come back 3 months later and they're like, "Thank you. this video triggered me from three months ago, but now I see like I went through a whole process or something. So, it's like we're robbing literally people from knowing the real part of ourselves by holding that aspect of ourel back and we're robbing other people from maybe the lessons or the the content that might actually propel them to change by trying to tiptoe around them. Yes, I talk about that a lot because I so I love that topic because in the beginning even when I started doing whatever I'm doing now, podcasting, speaking, all the things, I was always you want to be you want to be the hero. You do you want to be the hero for people in the beginning of the journey. And you have to I had this realization that you actually have to play the villain for some people in order for them to get the lesson that they need. And like you're going to even no matter how hard you try to play the hero, you're going to be the villain for somebody, right? And it made me realize how important that is though because I look at the people I made a villain in my life and the role that or the lesson that they gave me is the most important one. The most important one. Yeah. And you know cuz I think sometimes we can feel so misunderstood by people. I don't know if you've ever had that experience where you're like it's like the more I try to fix this the more misunderstood I'm getting. Y and the harder it is. Oh my god. So tell me about uh something that I'm really thinking about as you're talking about individuating is like how that's probably helped you in business, but I want to know the difference between how do you set goals in your business but still like hold this intention while still just trying to be within your own energy and operating within your business? Like how do you reach your goals while not feeling like you have to or it's forced or putting your energy out so much to that goal that it's like a need? Yeah, that's a great question. I for me it's kind of evolved as time has gone on with the process of like setting goals for my business. Lately the things I've been more so focused on is doing the things in my business that bring me a certain amount of joy and identifying what that is and then offloading the stuff that's not my zone of genius. And for me having the vision for me the the thing that's driven me a lot is is always impact. So, more so and and sometimes I got to catch myself because it's like I would have uh 10,000 people be in my my 21-day challenges if I could and do it for free. But if I do it for free, no one like a,000 out of the 10,000 people that signed up show up. Yes. If I charge a low ticket price like 67 bucks for a challenge and it's only three or 5,000 people will join, but guess what? I get 2,000 people on the live calls and I've had I've done I've gone live for 21 days in a row and by day 21 there's still like a thousand people on the call. It's an energetic commitment. Like money is an energetic. Exactly. And for me the way that I view money is is uh in proportion to impact. M so for me with my team a big part of the thing that we focus on is impact is is having a certain number of people in the challenges seeing a certain amount of c uh you know customer transformations inside the challenge inside the Facebook groups and stuff of like people just authentically sharing testimonials. So, a lot of our goals are around that and there is a money component to it to where obviously you have I have to be mindful of the expenses and all of that and there's definitely like a vision um for that. But the thing is with my kind of business too of being on YouTube, it really I can't plan out my year the way some people do and I've always wanted to. I I wish that I could plan out like this is what we're doing this month like like I know a month or two in advance but not like seven months from now, right? I might do three challenges next year. I might do two challenges next year. I might do four. I don't know. But there is I I I kind of know based on my connection with my audience of when it feels appropriate because it also depends on my energy. Am I having big breakthroughs right now? Is there something that I want to help my audience shift through because I'm shifting through it. So, it kind of depends on that also. But when it comes to goals, um there's a vision in the background. Every night before I go to bed, I do a uh a technique where as you're going to bed at night, you feel the emotion of what you want to create in your life as if it's already happened. Not as if it's going to happen in the future, but as if it's happening now. And part of that is around the impact. And for me, it's like finding one vision that I can viscerally connect to. So, for example, for me, it's being on stage. I love being on stage and I love like helping people have breakthroughs. I love especially leading guided meditations with thou with hundreds or thousands of people. That's my favorite thing is leading guided meditations that are in the moment. So I imagine being on stage and doing and leading people through a guided meditation with the lights dimmed down low and like people some people sitting some people lying on the floor and just like this energy that's being created in the room and just the information is all coming perfectly and it's a very detailed vision of what that is. And as I think of that, I feel into it. And as I'm feeling that every night or every morning when I wake up, I meditate right before I go to bed and right when I wake up in the morning. It's like I'm anchoring in that reality. So part of it is a visceral like feeling that I have that's tied to a specific moment of what I want to create. That's kind of like a metaphor for what I want to create my life. um for someone that wants to attract love or something like that. They can imagine themselves in the perfect relationship where they can just be themselves and there's such high integrity and maybe they're at the beach and there's this one moment that they're in and they're sharing this beautiful moment together and the sun is setting and like they can put themselves there viscerally and feel as if it's happening and realize that emotion is already inside of them. Doing that consistently brings through more of that energy in your reality. It's like almost like it's in your field more. So for me, business is very energetic. Whereas normally, I think the the way is like, well, what are the numbers? We have to hit the numbers. But the numbers to me are always a reflection of impact. So I focus on impact. I focus on how many people do we want in this challenge. We want 5,000 people to join this challenge. Of course, there's going to be a certain dollar amount that's there, right? But I feel like when the intention's on impact, it's also much more tied to the value it's going to provide them, which means if we get 5,000 people in on a challenge, there'll be this number of testimonials, which it's like them focused. Yes. It'll shift your energy because instead of saying, "How do I get the numbers up? Okay, well, I have to go online and say this today." Instead, it's like, "How do I get more people?" Oh, well, I have to make them feel this way. Like, I have to. So, it it helps you come from a totally different place, which is awesome. Yeah. Even even that nineto-ive job I had, I'd go in if it's I want to I want to I want someone to buy from me because I want to hit $5,000 a day in my sales. They can it's a different energy than if I go I want to add value. Yes. In the background I want to hit $5,000 for the day which means $500 of commission get paid 10%. Right. That was you know that's that that's what was a great day back when I was working that 9 toive job. That's in the background but it's that's an exchange for the value. So how can I make people feel better? How can I enjoy what I'm doing? How can I show my personality? How can I connect with people emotionally? How can I It's just a different intention. It's a different energy. And I think a lot of times with the law of attraction, it's on the outcome. It's on this result. It's on this thing that we want to get. And it's a very manipulative energy where it's coming, I want to get that from over there. Whereas instead, when it's I want to give, it's like there's a different universal connection to that. And also, it's then in alignment with everyone with what everyone else wants to receive. Like everyone has an intention, right? Mhm. If your audience has an intention of wanting to be added value or wanting a new insight or wanting a new transformational idea. So if you have an intention of giving that to them, it aligns with them. But if you have an intention of of getting certain amount of money, they're going to feel that and it feels like taking. So it's like a g it's just a different way of approaching the same energy. But the more I've had an intention of following my passion of what in my business feels the best to do right now focused with coupling that with an intention of impact, it's just a completely different energy that has better results. And in the background, I know I want to hit this number per year. I want this number come from challenges. I want this number to come from Google AdSense. Like there's a there's an an amount there that I in the background know. But people overly fixate on that, forgetting that it's not about the end result. It's about the process. It's about enjoying the process. It's about having more fun. It's about enjoying the process of the value you can give. Uh for me, it's like I'd feel sometimes anxious before going on stage. And the moment I get up there though, the moment the anxietyy's gone, which is kind of crazy, but there's a passion energy that flows through. So, it's like remembering that and focusing on being in that passion frequency. The more I'm in that passion frequency, the more money I make, the more abundance is there, and the more impact that h happens. So, how can I get in that energy more often is the question I'm asking myself more so than what do I need to do to get this dollar amount so I can hit my numbers for the year. Yeah. That that I found to be more powerful. I'm so excited to share that this podcast is sponsored by The Real Real, the best place to shop authenticated luxury bags, clothing, watches, and so much more. Personally, I love finding unique, elevated pieces that feel like me, and the Real Real is one of my favorite places to discover them. Whether I'm looking for a one-of-a-kind Zimmerman dress or a classic YSL bag, I know I'm getting something super special, and I'm getting it at a great value. The Real Real is attainable luxury that upgrades your personal style. With up to 90% off retail, you can finally have the pieces you've been dreaming of from brands like Gucci, Fendy, Prada, and so many others. Unlike other resale sites, everything The Real Real sells is authenticated in person by luxury and fashion experts. The Real Real is the go-to place for your next special piece. Need a dress for a fancy wedding? The perfect vacation sandals? Ready to invest in a new bag to add to your collection? Find exactly what you're looking for that no one else has at The Real Real. The Real Real is the world's largest and most trusted resource for authenticated luxury resale. With thousands of new arrivals daily, no one does resale like The Real Real. And now get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. That's the realreal.com/happy to get your $25 off. Start shopping now at the realreal.com/happy. The hardest part about starting a business is often getting started. Build your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Starting your business should be simple. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered Agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping businesses launch and grow for nearly 30 years. If you want to build your business while keeping your personal information secure, Northwest is the partner you need. In just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, they'll form your business, create a custom website, and set up your local presence wherever you need it. Form your business for just $39 plus state fees. Backed by real business experts with decades of experience. Protect your identity and keep your home address private by using Northwest Address on your information documents. Don't wait. Protect your privacy. Build your brand and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregistered agent.com/earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered agent at northwestregisteredagent.com. I'm still dreaming about this trip we took last year to Paris. You guys, for me, there is nothing better than sitting at a cafe, eating a chocolate quesson, and sipping a latte, watching the beautiful, stylish people of Paris walk by. That is my literal heaven. So, if you heard recently on our he said, she said episode, Chris and I asked each other, if we could live anywhere for a year in the world besides where we live that we love so much, where would it be? And we both said Paris at the same time. And we've been there a few times, but last year we were hosting a mastermind trip in Italy, and we're like, we have to make a pit stop in Paris because we're so obsessed with it. And thinking more about that dream of living in Paris for a year. I love this idea that if we did that, we could have another couple or family get to enjoy our space back at home and they're having the exact same experience of trying out their dream location. That way, we could make a little extra cash. Our home wouldn't be sitting empty. And with Airbnb's co-host network, an experienced co-host could take care of all the details while we're enjoying our dream of living in Paris. How incredible would that be? Where would you live for a year if you hosted your home on Airbnb and went on an adventure? I love that Airbnb is now making these dreams of living in different places possible. Find a co-host at Airbnb.com/host. So, we'll kind of end talking about money just because did you did you have to change your money story? How do you feel about money right now? Like what? Tell tell me your relationship with money. So my relationship for money is I don't know if I if I relate this to my astrology or anything. I have a Taurus rising so and I'm in the spirituality niche love. But I'm I'm a very grounded person. I do love luxury. I love nice sensual experiences. I love crazy good food. I that that's always been a part of myself that for a long time I felt shame around because I was like oo if you're spiritual you're not supposed to enjoy any of that. It's all about meditating and getting to the fifth dimension and like connecting and and being as you can't bring bags to the fifth dimension like what do you Yeah. Exactly. So I'm like I'm going from being the martyr of like I need to like suffer to then realizing wait I can enjoy the human experience. And I believe that part of my lesson cuz I I live in a nice house. I sometimes I'm like can I post about this post where I live because it's more unrelatable or something like that. Um but what I've realized is just who I am. I there's things I value. I like living in a nice house. I've always liked nice houses. I don't really care about cars. I don't really care. There's certain things I don't really care about. I like good food. I like nice houses. And my relationship is how do I feel when I'm experiencing that? For me to live in a nice house for me is very expansive. Yeah. When I live in a small house, I don't I'm not passionate about it. It affects my content. It affects my energy. And I could be happier with less. It's not about like am I not happy unless I'm living in a big house, right? I enjoy it and it's something that I've learned that I don't have to feel shameful about. Yeah. But with money, I think in spirituality especially, there's this distorted view on money where it's like you can't if you charge for your spiritual services, then it's somehow bad or evil, right? When money is simply a byproduct in our reality, it's just this everything in our reality is neutral. Everything is neutral. has no built-in meaning other than the meaning we give it. You get someone that says money is bad. Okay, that's what they believed about money. Well, guess what? If money is bad, you're probably not going to attract a bunch of it into your life. Imagine you're you're like gaslighting someone and you're wanting them in your life just money is bad, money is bad, money is bad. Like if money were a personality, like it wouldn't like you if you're like money is bad, right? At the same time, if you're like money is so important, it's the best thing ever. And you put it on a pedestal, that's also not good. It's making it very important. and it's creating all this resistance around it and it's glorifying something. It's almost giving it too much meaning. It's giving it too much meaning. Yeah. So, in in essence, money is just this neutral thing that we use in our reality to exchange energy. That's it. It's just this. It's just this thing that we use to exchange energy. I've always known that in my life, my money that I the money that I make and the abundance that I have is just a reflection of the energy I'm putting out in the world. And that's the way I view it. And honestly also having more money allows me to have a bigger team. I think of it in forms of I can hire more people. I can pay them very nice. I can they're very happy. They're very bought in on the mission. I'm able to have you know other aspects of my business I can flow money into like that. I view money more as just a resource. So it's an energy. It's a resource and I relate to it in that way. And in the beginning, I had to get used to viewing it in that way where it's not really good and on the top of the hill and it makes me worthy, but it's also not in the the dumpster, this bad negative thing that is controlled by the Illuminati or something like that to where you know it's it's bad because either one of those you're going to resist it in your life or it's going to it's going to cause problems because there's too much resistance with it. But if it's just this neutral thing, it's natural like your identity. It's natural to be abundant. It's natural to have nice things. It's natural to have nice experiences and that to me is what I let be natural for myself and having that way of relating to it has allowed money's always kind of come easy for me and it's not because I don't give it a lot of importance. It's funny I have friends that are that area of their life that might be a big block for them but and I can it's it's clear that that's something they make very important. is something and I've done it to myself as well. So I'm not like I have it all figured out but it's very clear that that's an area of their life that they make important that they have resistance around. Whereas me there's times where in relationships or in other dynamics of my life that there may be challenges and I can tell that it's the same energy. It's just that we have different things. But money hasn't been that for me. Money is just this neutral thing that just kind of comes and I've just always trusted that it comes as a reflection of what I give. So instead of focusing on what can I get, it's like how can I give more and the money will just naturally come and I just have confidence in my ability to give and to tap into my audience to see what that is while also taking the importance out of it. So good. I I didn't even get to half the things I wanted to get to with you, but took this was so great. Um I'm feeling like all sorts of magnetized right now. Like no, really like that individuated, magnetized, elevated, vibrated, all the things vibrated. Is that a thing? All right. Well, just beyond grateful, but I want to know what you are most excited about right now in your life. Like what are and how can we get involved with you? So, if we're excited about your meditations that you mentioned or the I did a live meditation last with all the stuff that's happening in the world right now. I did a live unity meditation where we had uh 4,000 people. There's something called the Maharishi effect where when thousands of people get together and they focus on peace and love like it can decrease violent crimes in the world. Like it's this crazy cool thing. It's called the Maharishi effect. But anyways, I've been really passionate about doing liveg guided meditations on my YouTube channel for sending love and and generating that love within ourselves and connecting to the group energy. That's been very powerful. And um so I've been doing that on my YouTube channel. Other than that, live events are coming up for 2024. I'm very excited about group live containers uh with like a safe space for people to transform and and go into their inner work and elevate their vibration. That's something that's coming. Uh 21day challenges I'm going to be doing in January. Um but yeah, just different things that are all along the same line of liveg guided meditations, group energies, self transformation from the inside out and uh yeah, that's been my focus. Amazing. Okay, where can we find you, follow you, all the things? Aaron Dowy44 on Instagram. Aaron Dowy on YouTube. And uh other than that, yeah, that's pretty much it. YouTube and Instagram are the main ones I'm focused on and podcast of course. Amazing. I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on the show. And you guys, the biggest thing that you can do for our guest is number one, just go follow him. Go get on one of his meditations because they're life-changing. But also, give him a tag and let him know what your biggest takeaway was from this. You guys know I love to see it on stories. You guys know that I love to share it. And we kept something from you. So, we have some bonus content that Aaron did. So, he is going to give us his top tip on how to come back to peace, come back to his power when he gets triggered. So, all you have to do is go to the link in show notes and you're going to get the bonus content. Thank you guys so much and we will see you next week.