This episode of Earn Your Happy is sponsored in part by Shopify, Open Phone, and Northwest registered agent. Turn your big business idea into cha-ching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. See why over 60,000 businesses trust Open Phone. Open is offering my listeners 20% off of your first six months at openphone.com/earn. Don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/earn. So many women have written off like, "Oh, your cycle is just a terrible thing." This is what I'm trying to demystify. It is not a terrible thing. Our hormones are our superpower. And if you learn how to work your lifestyle to match them, you will witness your body in a new way. Hey everyone, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Today's episode is another throwback, one of my favorite conversations. And you guys know that I've had this podcast for 8 years. So, if you're newer to the podcast, I have literally recorded over 1,400 episodes, you guys. So, I want to make sure that you don't miss any of these super amazing, juicy conversations that I have chosen just for you because I can't tell you about the wealth of knowledge that is in this freaking catalog of throwbacks. I don't want you to miss it. It's truly what has changed my life and helped me on my journey of growth in entrepreneurship, in relationships, in personal development. And I know that these messages are going to hit you in the same kind of powerful way that they hit me. So, I hope that you love this one as much as I do. And let's get started. Dr. Mindy Pals is a worldrenowned women's health expert. She's the best-selling author of Fast Like a Girl. This book has completely taken off since she wrote it. I met Mindy backstage at a Brennan Bashard event in Los Angeles and I was introduced to her by Jamie Kern Lima and Jamie said you have to meet her. She has this book that's just going wild. She'd be great for your podcast. I'm not a dummy. So I said absolutely because anyone who Jamie says you should meet, you should probably meet them. They probably have a lot of great things to say. She's dedicated her career to perfecting the formula of fasting specifically for women to work with your cycle. So, understanding when you should fast and when you should take a break. And this episode was really interesting to me because I had been an intermittent faster for so long that this really helped me get in touch with kind of like my my intuition around my body as well, which I feel so much better since taking her advice from this. And if you're an entrepreneur or a big dreamer, which I know if you're listening to this, you probably are, this is such an important conversation about what you need to optimize your health and performance through. So Mindy shared a quote that went something like this. Your health as a founder is the ceiling of your business. And I couldn't agree more. When you take care of your health, it impacts literally everything in your life from your mindset to your energy and your ability to be disciplined to accomplish any goals you set for yourself. We talk about the benefits of fasting and how so many people want to fast to lose weight. But there's so many more benefits from mental clarity to increase energy and motivation. I once did this seven-day fast that I talk about, complete fast with just water. And it was insane how much it unlocked my mental clarity. Like it was levels of connection and clarity to whatever you believe, God, source. It was like a crazy flood of information coming into my brain. Now, I can't do that all the time, nor do I actually have any urge to do it again anytime in the near future, but I do highly recommend looking into it if you are feeling like you just cannot get that clarity or that connection or creativity and you know it's due to maybe what you're putting in your body. So listen in for practical tips on fasting, balancing your hormones, including for anyone that's premenopausal or in menopause, and whether or not hormone replacement therapy is a good option for you. So let's get into the show. Mindy, welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Oh, I'm so excited to be here. I can't wait for this conversation. So thank you for having me. Yes, I'm so excited, too. And we just we literally just got stopped by my podcast producer and said, "Stop talking about all the good stuff before the podcast starts because already I feel like number one, you're so easy to talk to. Learned that very quickly from the moment you walked in. And number two, I know that you are just a wealth of knowledge and I can't wait for people to hear this podcast because I shared with you that a lot of the audience is entrepreneurs or want to be entrepreneurs or big dreamers. And it is about the person who's going to carry those dreams out. It's about the vehicle that we carry these dreams out in. Yeah. And you actually shared a quote with me right away that I really loved. Would you share that? Yeah. It was a quote that actually a friend said um which was the trauma of a CEO becomes the capacity block or another way or the ceiling of the company and I think you could say the health of the CEO becomes the ceiling of the company. So it's either way but it's working on yourself first and business follows. Yeah. Absolutely. So, and just that's going to be where if you think about in business, if your business is stuck, you can kind of start to look at yourself. What part of me is this? Yeah, I think that's the first place to look when your business is stuck is go within. uh when I was in clinical practice that was always whenever there was a growth moment that was block that we couldn't break through. I would always say okay what is it inside me that needs to change in order for my practice to change. So I've it's an inside out way of looking at life and I and I just resonate with that so deeply. Yeah. Do you think other people were looking at that? That's a great question. I mean it's really interesting having a comp now I my I've closed my practice because we do everything online now and um we have a team of around 30 people and because what we do is educating women on health um most of my team is female and there is a an expectation a gentle expectation of what I call live it to lead it if we're going to live if we're going to lead this type of lifestyle then we need to live this type of lifestyle And everybody seems congruent with that. But as you know, you know, as a as a boss, you can't I can't tell you what to eat. I can't tell you how to take care of your health. But I think as I've noticed, my my staff is the ones that have fully embraced what we're teaching are the mo have the most vibrancy. They have the best stamina. Their mental clarity is great. So I think they figure it out for themselves. So you wrote a book that you are kind of on a never-ending tour right now. People just keep wanting to talk about it. They do. So, you launched, but everyone's like, "No, you're coming on my show. You're doing this. You're doing that." Because it's a hot topic. So, your book, Fast Like a Girl, and you've also written another book, but this one this one was this last year. Yeah. Um, and you take into account women's hormones, menstrual cycles, all of the things that weren't originally thought about when we learned fasting. Y um I had fasted and still do once in a while. I probably am doing it more like you're teaching, but I fasted for about seven years and love I loved it. Still actually love it, but want to learn more about it, which is why I feel like you're in my atmosphere is I'm like, "Oh, I want to learn more about how to do it where I feel a little better." So tell me about why this book, like what was inspired by this book? Well, so originally everybody always says, "Well, how did you figure out how to time hormones and fasting?" It was because I was my first patient. I at I'm 54 now and at about 43 all my hacks for health like went away. So I am AI was a competitive tennis player in my younger years. I loved working out. I've always eaten really well. I detoxed. I did everything right. Yeah. And at 43, my health just started to unravel. And yet I was doing everything right. Oh man. So like I didn't get why I it was unraveling. And so that's when about that time fasting started to come to the surface and uh Jason fun wrote a book called the obesity code and he was he really gets a lot of credit for bringing this to the mainstream world and in the obesity code he was the first ones to say weight loss is not about calorie in calorie out. Weight loss is a hormonal issue and the hormone you want to balance is insulin. So he started this huge fasting movement of people that I call OMatters, one meal a day people. Everybody just started eating one meal a day, leaving all this time for fasting and they lost a ton of weight. So as he was over there teaching that, I was discovering the principles for my own pmenopausal body. I started teaching how to fast uh in a cyclical way. I was doing it for hormones in my patient with my patients in my clinic. And one day somebody said to me, you know, you should probably teach this on um for, you know, for the world. How about you do a YouTube channel? And I was like, okay, I guess I guess I could do that. And so I put a couple of videos up about fasting and the benefits of fasting and the benefits of fasting for women uh on my YouTube channel. And one day, one of those videos took off. Wow. And it went viral. And my channel just to just grew. And it was all with women who said, "I loved fasting, but my I lost my hair. I love fasting, but I lost my cycle. I loved fasting, but I'm really anxious and depressed now, even though I'm the weight I want to be." Like, the stories from women just poured on to our channel. And I just started listening and tweaking and trying to understand how a woman was supposed to fast. And here we are. I mean, there's 63 million views on that channel now. And so many women gave me so much feedback and we perfected, you know, as a group of of humans. I give them a lot of credit. We perfected a formula for women in fasting that works. Oh my god. So, tell me what that looked like when you were cuz you said you were the guinea pig. Like, you were the first person. I was the first guinea pig. What were you first noticing? Because you had started fasting. Yeah. What were some of the things that you first started noticing about it that didn't like weren't necessarily working for you? Yeah, so when I learned how to fast, what I was noticing at 43, let's start there, was uh weight gain for no particular reason because my hormones were shifting. And we can talk a little bit about why that was. Um then when I started to fast, I lost weight, my mental clarity, energy, everything felt great, but then I lost my cycle. So at like 45, I lost my cycle. Wow. And I thought, okay, am I going to menopause? But if you look at hormones, you want to have your hormones as a woman as long as you possibly can because estrogen is very protective to our brain, to our cardiovascular system. So if you're going into menopause at 45, not a great situation. The average age to go into menopause is 52. So, I went to a friend and I was like, "Why do you I love fasting, but my gosh, like I lost my cycle and it was actually a male friend and he said to me, um, you need to step out of fasting." And so, that's when I started to really look at the nuance of, oh, there's a time for a woman to fast and a time for a woman not to fast. Okay? And when I applied that rhythm to my own life, my cycle came back. And I I just went into postmenopause now at at 54. Wow. Finally in postmenopause. So, it was really learning that a woman's body needs it sometimes and sometimes not. Okay. So, what's the idea? Let's back up for anyone who doesn't understand why fasting is is beneficial. Yeah. Can you tell us a little bit about that? Yeah. So, this is the best way I can explain it. Okay. Everybody always says my metabolism, oh, I did this, it speed up sped up my metabolism. or I can't tell you the number of times people would come into my clinic and go, I think my metabolism has slowed down. So, here's the deal. We we actually have two metabolisms. One that gets triggered when we eat and one that gets triggered when we don't eat. And we as humans, this is for both men and women. We are meant to switch in and out of these two metabolisms. So, whenever we're talking about food, we're talking about what I call the sugar burner metabolism. Okay? So you eat food, it turns into glucose, glucose goes into the cell, stimulates the mitochondria of the cell and the mitochondria makes something called ATP which is energy. Okay. But the mitochondria also needs other fuel sources and one of those is a ketone. So the second metabolism is your fat burning metabolic system. And this you can only trigger in the absence of food. And you have to go at least eight hours. 12 is best. And we can talk about all the different times to be able to get over into the fat burner system. Wow. When you metabolically switch over into the fat burner system, what happens is the liver senses the decrease in glucose and it starts to make a ketone and that it m the bo how it makes that ketone is by burning fat. So it finds the fat in your body, burns it, makes this ketone, that ketone goes into your cell and supercharges you. So the sugar burner system, fat burner system, you are meant to metabolically switch in and out of these two systems. If you are never making a ketone, you've never in your life made a ketone, you are depriving your cells of half of their fuel source. The brain also needs half of its fuel source is ketones. So, if you never metabolically switch into this fasted state, never making a ketone, you're depriving your brain of half of its fuel source. Wow. And the beautiful part, if you're in a if you're looking for weight loss, is that when you switch in and out and you give your body glucose and you give it ketones, the only way you can make ketones is by burning fat. So, the in in the window you had mentioned, you said it needs at least 12 hours. Yeah. What's the optimal window and how did you set it up? Like how have you found for people has been like the most maybe I don't know for lack of a better term like realistic or like doable. Yeah. So I laid out in the book six different length fasts. Okay. And they were all based off of research that I saw and then off of seeing what worked for women. So, uh, the first one is a typical intermittent fasting, and it's when you're when you go without food, anywhere from 12 to 16 hours, your body switches over and it starts to make these ketones. 17 hours without food, the body starts to sense those cells go, hm, food's not coming in. I think what we need to do is get rid of anything inside this cell that's no longer working. So, the cell literally detoxes itself. It's called autophagy. At 24 hours, the whole gut resets itself. You get intestinal stem cells that kick in. 36 hours, the research shows that the body really goes after that stubborn weight that you can't let go of. We'll do that at 36 hours. 48 hours of fasting, the whole dopamine system gets rebooted. And 72 hours, the anything in your immune system that's not working goes away and and new, specifically white blood cells will be restored. Wow. So, we were chatting before this because I was just sharing like I did a long fast at one period just to kind of prove it to myself and I had heard some great things that really inspired me. Yeah. When you're doing those longer fasts or who do you recommend those longer fasts for and we did talk about there's like a history to fasting. Oh yeah. Like a long a long way beginning of time. Um can we share can you share a little bit about that? Yeah. I was thinking yeah there was this man named Jesus. Jesus kind of Jesus was a trends setter like everyone. He had no idea. Yes. And he went long periods without He's so popular in LA. He's super popular in LA. He's kind of well known and he fasted a bunch. Oh my god. Too good. Um, every religion has fasting in it. And what's really interesting and actually is at the core of like a bit of a dilemma for me at teaching fasting is I understand that a lot of people want to use it as a weight loss tool. And I always say if you if you want to use it as a weight loss tool, go ahead and come to the fasting party to lose weight, but I'm going to ask that you stay at the party to learn about all the other things that fasting can do. And one of them is this deep spiritual insight. Um I you talked about the 7-day fast you went on. Mhm. Um when you go that long without food, the insight, the inspiration, the downloads are insane. Insane. Yeah. I had no idea that was going to someone had told me a little bit about theirs. So I think I was so curious about unlocking that potential. So I I didn't understand though how clear things would be. Y and the amount of energy I actually experienced. Don't get me wrong, there were some there were some dips, but for the most part, it was almost as if I understood well, I 100% understood that energy doesn't necessarily only come from food. Yeah, there is an outer source that I was getting fueled by that was it blew my mind. Yeah. Um the first time I learned fasting, I every January, I would pull all my patients together and I would say, "Okay, here's what we're going to do for the new year. This is how we're going to set our intention with our health." And I they would bring family and guests. So there was I I had just discovered fasting and I thought, "Okay, I've been teaching nutrition to my patients. Now I need to tell them to not eat. How the heck am I going to prove to them outside of the research that they're not going to pass out?" So I said, "Okay, well, why don't I go on a really long fast and give the presentation in a fasted state?" So I did it on the fifth day of a water fast. I presented to a couple hundred people in in this church and I basically said showed them all the science and you could see the look on everybody's face was like a little dubious and then I just revealed I have not eaten in 5 days. Wow. And people were convinced and I think you do not know until you go into it the amount of mental clarity and energy that you will get. It's and that's a ketone when you make ketones. I think of ketones. You know the movie Limitless with Bradley Cooper? Love that movie. You know how he takes the pill and he can like speak all those lines. That's a ketone. It supercharges you and your mental clarity, your energy, I mean everything about you becomes more vibrant and you would think in the absence of food that would be the opposite and it's not. I want to know more about the do you know about the history of fasting in in like the spiritual I I from I know every religion has had it um but and I know they do it as a devotional. What's interesting is actually Ramadan um there's I I when I first started looking at studies and studies on women the ones that I found the most on were from for for from Ramadan. Wow. Yeah. Because they've been doing it. Yeah. Every year they do it. Yeah. That is really crazy. And I I think the 7-day thing what it did for me is understand why they did do that in religion is because you do hear things like you you know we talk a lot about just you know intuition and listening to yourself and your soul or whatever that means to you but truly I understood that food can sometimes be a block like you can block yourself if you're not eating well and you know doing the things that is not great for your body but that's so interesting that your body literally has a reward system for not eating right like please give me arrest. Yeah. The best way to understand it is we're a hybrid car. We operate off glucose and we operate off ketones. Hybrid car works off electricity and off of gas. So if you're not accessing both fuel sources, you're actually not using your body to its full potential. And then outside of that, I what I where I've come to learn how to use fasting from a mental health spiritual standpoint is anytime I have a problem I can't I can't work out, I throw a couple day fast at it. And every single time the answer gets revealed to me. So, you know, Jesus was on to something. He really, really was. He so was. And I just want to mention I did a seven-day fast just once. Like that was something for me. It was a challenge. one of my friends had done it and gave me like just told me something amazing had happened for them. So if we're going to do that, if we want to do what you had just mentioned, is it like a one-day fast? Is it a two-day fast? And how is that structured? Yeah, I think it you got to think of these longer fasts as like a marathon. If you're going to train for a marathon, you wouldn't just slap on some shoes and go run 20 miles, right? You would do like two and then you might do 10 and you would slowly build up. Um, I believe fasting should be the same way. And that's why I wanted to put these six different length fasts out for women to give them choices. And so I think you should if you start with 13 hours, see how you do. Um try it consecutive days. As you get comfortable with that, then maybe one day a week you stretch it to 17 hours. It'll be uncomfortable and that's okay because in the discomfort is where the body repairs itself. So if you're willing to hang in there through the discomfort and you probably had this in your seventh day, seven-day fast. Yes, definitely. Like moments where you're like, I don't know if I can do this. So many moments and then something switches you over and all of a sudden you're like, wait a second, I'm not hungry. Mhm. It would just take over. Yeah. Yeah. And that's cuz the other fuel source, the ketones kick in. Yeah. So, um, so I you practice with the longer fasts. I find by the time you can get to 24 hours pretty comfortably, you're you could effortlessly do a three-day water fast. But we've now I mean we've now taken millions of people that I've never met through three-day water fast. We just did with my publisher in January. We did a 100,000 people in one week coming together which talk about spiritual you know bring a 100,000 people together in for one benefit. Wow. And that was their health was the way we we looked at it. But you could bring it together. I mean, it would be interesting to bring a bunch of entrepreneurs together. Yeah, you could do, of course, churches do that. You can lead people successfully through these three-day water fasts. And knock on wood, we have not had one situation where somebody has had to go to the emergency room or any because the body was meant to fast. Wow. I can't imagine just the like the insights and conversations. Yeah. and probably even crazy friendships that came out of doing something because that is that's kind of a big moment for a lot of us. We've never ever many of us have not ever been taught that not eating is good for you. Like I grew up in the 80s like all they wanted us to do was eat, you know? Right. Or and eat more and your your metabolism will be faster. Yes. Eat more. I went through the whole like six meals, eight meals. I was in the fitness industry for a while and I'm like, should I be eating eight meals? I mean, I was exhausted just eating little meals all the time. So, it's funny because I I spent a lot of time trying to understand this six meal a day thing. And I can't I I I can't find any research that can show me that each time you eat a meal, you speed up your metabolism. If anything, it you should look at your 24 hours as I have an eating window and I have a fasting window and all of your food should be eaten in a certain time period and you're leaving longer time periods for not eating. And and when you look at the research on that, like the greatest study ever done or one of the greatest, there's so many good ones, um was done on 168. So that's 16 hours of fasting, okay, eight hour eating window. And basically what they found was that you could eat whatever you wanted. You could eat the worst western standard horrible inflammatory high sugar diet. And as long as you ate that in eight hours, leaving 16 hours for rest, for fasting, you were metabolically immune from high blood pressure, from uh gaining weight, from cholesterol going up, from inflammation going up because you gave your body 16 hours of rest. M I mean I can attest to that because I went from uh you know being in the fitness industry for a long time like meticulously really watching my food y and then getting to a place where my life got busier by you know my job got busier traveling became more and that became something that was really challenging to like eat in these certain windows and get healthy food all the time and so I that's when I started dabbling in intermittent fasting and I just noticed I was able to stay the same like with eating things that I actually like enjoyed a little more. There was a lot more wiggle room to what I was doing and my energy went way up. That was huge for me. I noticed that I just had all of this energy in the afternoon that I wasn't having. Like I was that girl that 3:00 was like I just oh my god I was like I can't go on. I just want to sleep. So tell me about someone who's curious about it right now. How do we You let us know about the time frames, but how do we set that up as women like with our cycles and with hormones? How do we know what to watch for? What can we tweak? How do we ease into it? Yeah, it's it's and this is such a good question, and this is where women kept tripping on themselves as they were practicing fasting. Um, so here's the best way to understand this. Um, men work off a 24-hour hormonal cycle. So, every 15 minutes or so, they get testosterone and then it like pulses in. I know. You know, have you ever heard I was on Diary of the CEO? I was on Steven Bartlet last podcast and he's like, "What?" And I'm like, "Yeah, you know what we say about you?" You've done it four times. Yeah. I'm like, he I'm like, "You know what we we say about you?" He goes, "You say stuff about us." I'm like, "Yes, we say if you if you don't like what your male mate likes, just ask him in another 15 minutes because you might get a different answer because testosterone might be at a little different spot." That's so good. Oh, thank you for that tip. There's there's my marital tip for you. Thank you so much. Yes. Yeah. So, he So, men really are simple. They make testosterone. Testosterone goes up into the brain and converts to estrogen. And they get this every 15 minutes or so. It's a 24-hour cycle. We are not that simple. So, we operate off of three hormones: estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone. And it's built off a monthly cycle. And estrogen loves when you fast. So whenever estrogen's coming in, go ahead and fast, which is day one of your cycle all the way through day 10. Estrogen's going to peak at ovulation. That whole front half of your cycle, go ahead and fast. It's an amazing time. In fact, uh, one of the things I think I'm the most proud of is, uh, when I look at my Amazon reviews, how many women got pregnant using the strategies that I talked about in the book because they cleaned up estrogen. So, all of a sudden, their estrogen system was so much more balanced, they went into ovulation and had a better ovulation. Wow. Super cool. So, the beginning of your period is a good time to fast. That's right. Okay. I would have thought opposite just because your cravings are up. So, what happens around that? Okay. I'm going to tell you because I this is what I want every woman to know. Um then during ovulation you get the most amount of testosterone. So the other thing to know as women we only get testosterone this strange little 5day period called ovulation. Wow. The rest of the month we have very very low levels of testosterone. So, another tip for the men listening who are in relationships with a woman, she's got a four to five day period when testosterone goes up and then it's gone. So, the but once we come out of ovulation and we go into the back half of our cycle, the hormone progesterone is what's going to show up and peak. Progesterone has to peak for the uterine lining to shed. Progesterone wants glucose to be higher. Progesterone does not want you to fast. And you know how we know this? What do we crave before our periods? I mean, I crave sugar, carbs. Every woman I have not I mean, surely there's some women out there, but almost every woman I talked to says, "I crave sugar. I crave carbs. I crave chocolate." Of course, because progesterone needs glucose to be higher. Every woman I've ever put a a continuous glucose monitor on, when we get to that part of their cycle, they're like, "I'm not doing anything different." and my glucose is going higher. Interesting. I'm like, "Yeah, because progesterone, think of it like a chemistry experiment. Progesterone needs more glucose to be able to make her appearance. That's what she is made out of is glucose." So, what was happening in the fasting world is all in the keto world, it was the same thing. All these women were going into this lowcarb, low sugar uh experience the week before their periods. And that's how they and athletes, we hear of athletes losing their cycle all the time because they're not minding the rules of progesterone. And so that's the worst time to fast. It's the worst time to push your workouts. It's the worst time to stay up all night because progesterone wants glucose to be high and cortisol to be low. When you don't honor that the week before your period, when your period starts, you have cramps, you have cravings, you are irritable. So that whole thing about us feeling horrible when our period starts happened because we didn't take care of what progesterone needed the week before. Wow. She's a diva. She's a total diva. As they're both divas. Yeah, totally. Okay. So, how do we set up the week before? Give me that rundown one more time because my mind is blown right now. Give me Give me the week before and then how do we set up the week of our period to to feel better? So around day 20, progesterone's gonna come roaring in. Okay. So you need to eat more carbs. Okay. Let's start with that one. Yep. This is not a box of pizza and a tub of ice cream. This is Sorry. Trying to get that out of you. No, I'm just kidding. No, this is this is nature's carbs. So the this is your squashes. Butternut squash is one of my favorite, too. Yeah. Yeah. Sweet potatoes. Sweet potatoes are progesterone's best friend. Potatoes, all kinds. Uh tropical fruits, uh mangoes, papayas, uh bananas, some of the higher glycemic fruits, um all always greens are always good. Um but things that you typically if you go low carb will avoid. So whatever nature provides that can give you more carbs like that. So you want to bring your carbs up. Um but do it with nature's carbs. Don't don't do it with refined carbohydrates. It's because I I that is another whole story that we can talk about later. um then you don't want cortisol to go up. Okay? So that means if you are fasting, if you are pushing a workout, if you are pushing your work schedule, if cortisone go cortisol goes high, progesterone's out. So I'll give you an example. One of the biggest things I've seen in putting this book out is that so many 20 and 30 year olds have lost their cycle right now. Yeah. It's a big problem. Wow. The other thing I want to my new passion and is coming out in my next book that I really want to get across to women is that when you bleed, you detox. You are detox. And I and I just I have a team of researchers now that pull all this information together. And I got a study last week that there are four chemicals that women are detoxing um uh that are in our blood, our actual menstrual blood. Plastics, phalates, forever chemicals, and pesticides. Wow. Yeah. Wow. So, when you're not bleeding, you're not detoxing. Wow. So, you need to chill out. I called it the nurture phase. We got to just cut back our intensity a little bit the week before our period. So, that might be with with your workout. Maybe you move to yoga or Pilates or you go for a hike. That might be you just say no on your social calendar to just, hey, I'm going to sit home this Friday night and I'm just going to watch TV. That might be that you decide you're going to take your workload and and and bring it down by a third during that time. How whatever it is for you, maybe you're going to meditate a little bit more. Maybe you're just going to slow down. Um I've heard some women say that they just that week they just w they move a little slower. They give themselves a little more grace. Um just life intensity needs to come down that week so cortisol isn't peaking because the minute cortisol is peaking, progesterone's done. Wow. So if you bring your glucose up in a positive way and you mind cortisol when your period starts, it should be a very smooth experience. So when you're talking about the bringing in more of nature's carbs, is that like any time throughout the week? Is that like just have it at every meal? Is that have it at one meal? Yeah, I mean if or just however you feel. Yeah, I think it's however you feel. Now remember the cool thing about Nature's Carbs is it has fiber. Mhm. So fiber slows down all that glucose coming in. So this is why I don't want you doing a box of pizza because if you're doing a box of pizza, it has no fiber and all that glucose coming in, if your cells can't take this the the flood of glucose, it will store extra glucose and fat. Okay. So, and this is a really important thing that I'm trying to free women of. All fat is is excess. It is excess glucose. It is excess cortisol. It is excess hormones. Your body didn't know what to do with that excess. So instead of putting it in your organs and killing you, it decided to put it around your belly, it put it on the back of your arms, on your booty, and your boobs because it that's a safer place for your survival. So when we eat carbs that are have fiber in them, it helps to just make that influx of glucose a little bit easier. Because usually the message I get from a lot of women is well if I eat a lot of carbs a week before my period I'm going to gain weight. So eat smart carbs. Okay. And then during that time where you're not fasting like that's a normal you're when you say fasting that window is the eight or I'm sorry the 12 to 16 hours without food. But that week before we're not really we're kind of just doing okay. You can go back to your six meals a day. Okay. So you're really just doing that during your menstrual cycle. You're doing it or Yeah. Day one through like day 20 or you can fast during ovulation. I recommend a little shorter fast just because you have all these hormones in you. Um but in the book I I gave them all names and I and I gave a graph and I show it all there. So you guys have to get the book if you want to it could be helpful be very helpful. Yeah. But yeah I mean if you want to make it like as simple as possible I would just say don't fast the week before your period. Okay. Got it. Okay. So tell me about tell me about mood a little bit related to this like what have you noticed most with women and mood and what did you notice for yourself? Yeah. So you know this is a really interesting part since I I was just telling I was just telling Lisa this when I was over at her house. I was saying, you know, I thought I wrote I I thought I wrote a fasting book, but what I realized is I actually wrote a women's empowerment book because so many women didn't understand how their hormones related to their moods and to their behaviors and their cravings and their sleep cycles. And so one thing that I think when we talk about mood that we should understand is whenever estrogen is showing up. Yeah. Which is the front half of our cycle, she brings with her dopamine, serotonin, acetylcholine, glutamate, uh BDNF, oxytocin. She knows how to party. She is she's the diva. Yeah. In fact, in um in I'm I'm writing a book called Eat Like a Girl right now. And yeah, it's going to be it's going to be a really fun book. And I did a whole thing on pmenopause in there and I was like she's the diva's gone like and with her like give her anore like everybody give her an encore like she's out and with it goes her friends which is why pmenopausal women menopausal women are depressed and they can't think is because the estrogen brought with her all those neurotransmitters. Yeah. So, when you learn to cater to what estrogen wants with food and fasting, um, and you can do it with other life strategies, then she shows up and she brings all these friends with her and you front half of the cycle, you should feel great. Yeah. Back half of the cycle, now we're like in progesterone's territory. And progesterone brings GABA. And GABA is the calming neurotransmitter. So if you don't give progesterone what she needs, you're going to be irritable. So when we are like, I'm PMSing. That's because the code the you could interpret that as I didn't take care of progesterone. I didn't sit my butt down on the couch. I didn't give her the nature's carbs. I didn't do what she wanted. And so now there she didn't get her moment. And I'm irritable. Does that make sense? Yeah. Totally. So, so mood throughout if if we just take care of that. Let's talk about like mood throughout the month. Is there a way to keep that more stable throughout the entire month? Yeah. So, I think the natural moves mood is day one through day 10 you should as you know usually the first two days every you know all women are a little bit like not sure how I'm feeling but there is a general sense of relief when our periods start. Yeah. Um, but the first 10 days it should be an uplifting time. Um, you should start to feel brighter, a little bit happier because of all those neurotransmitters. During ovulation, testosterone isn't just libido. Testosterone is motivation and drive. So, you should feel a little more motivated and you have estrogen at her peak. When estrogen peaks, we have access to both sides of our brain, right and left brain. This is really good for entrepreneurs to know is that you've got testosterone for motivation and drive. You've got estrogen that's giving you all these neurotransmitters and allowing you to have access to both sides of your brain. And you have a little bit of progesterone. I think every company should take all the ovulating women and put them in one room. Seriously? Yeah. A think tank. A think tank of ovulating women. I I'm waiting for somebody do that, please. And tell me how it goes. That is our glory moment. That is when we are absolutely our our best and we should be that way. Now, not everybody's that way at ovulation and that's because they're not learning how to live with this cycle or how to live their lifestyle according to their hormones. But that's how we should feel. Yeah. Wow. I mean, I think some people are listening probably like mind blown that you can even take advantage of these things and that there's a lot of power in your I mean so many women have written off like, "Oh, your cycle is just a terrible thing." This is what I'm trying to demystify. It is not a terrible thing. Our hormones are our superpower. And if you learn how to work your lifestyle to match them, you will witness your body in a new way. Wow. I'm so excited to share this. You guys know I never shy away from big scary leaps, those super messy, what the heck am I doing moments and this is Small Business just kicked off a new season and it's all about risk. You know, I'm obsessed with this topic because that's what it takes. The host Andrea Marquez takes us behind the scenes with fearless founders who turn their maybe later ideas into heck yes, let's go adventures. These episodes have it all. They have raw stories of grit, honest advice, and so much inspiration. I got full body goosebumps listening. I was nodding along thinking this is exactly the kind of fuel we all need when chasing our big dreams. So, if you need that extra push to go after your own hell yes vision, you have to check this out. Go follow this is Small Business on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you listen, I can't wait for you to hear it. When I first started Glossy, I was so overwhelmed. I felt like I had to do everything on my own because you do. and your to-do list just keeps mounting. But let me tell you, when you're starting off with something new, it just seems like that list is growing and growing and growing. And it can quickly overrun your life. So, you have to start learning to find the right tools that can not only help you out, but simplify everything. And that is a game changer. And let me tell you, for millions of businesses, that tool is Shopify. And I am included in those numbers. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world. than 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started and I'm going to add mine to the list, Gloy. Get started with your own design studio. With hundreds of readytouse templates, Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. And you guys, I love my website so much that's on Shopify. Go and check it out. Also, Shopify is your e-commerce expert with world-class expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into chachching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy.ify.com/happy. The hardest part about starting a business is often getting started. Build your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Starting your business should be simple. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered Agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping businesses launch and grow for nearly 30 years. If you want to build your business while keeping your personal information secure, Northwest is the partner you need. In just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, they'll form your business, create a custom website, and set up your local presence wherever you need it. Form your business for just $39 plus state fees. Backed by real business experts with decades of experience. Protect your identity and keep your home address private by using Northwest Address on your information documents. Don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwestregistered agent at northwestregisteredagent.com. And the fact that, you know, there's so many interesting reasons why, you know, birth control being a big one that has and and I don't have a good solution for birth control. I've been searching and searching. And I think it's not in the female body. It's probably in the male body. Um because we're so sophisticated, our hormonal system, but we've just manipulated our our our menstrual cycle through birth control, through stress, through pushing ourselves. So, we're out of natural rhythm. So, when you hear this, you're like, "What? I don't feel like that." Right? So, but that's how you're supposed to feel. So, um, one of one of my favorite moments and, um, throughout this whole journey that I've been on, whatever you want to call it, this book journey. Yeah. Never ending book. Never ending book tour. Uh, that started before the book tour was, um, I got to work with Leanne Rimes, the the country, well, she's not I shouldn't call her that. She would not be happy to necessarily hear that, but that, you know, they amazing artist, the amazing Grammy award-winning artist. She's so much more than country. when we first started working together, she would go into ovulation and she would tell me, "I feel so bitey." And I was like, "God, that you shouldn't feel bity. You must be missing something." So, we really worked with her lifestyle during that ovulation window because and once we I knew we nailed it when she started going through ovulation and telling me that she felt great. Wow. Like she she's like, "I don't feel bity now." M so if you're not feeling that way at ovulation, I really really really recommend that you take a look at those three hormones and what they need and and and if you cater to their needs, you will notice ovulation is much better. The back right before our period when progesterone's coming in, we're meant to chill out a bit. We're meant to slow down. So I mean, how many of us have been like, I can't I can't work out during that week. I just don't feel like it. Yeah. But we push ourselves anyways. Mhm. Totally. So, you're supposed to be a little bit softer, a little bit more inner, you're supposed to be not as excited to go do everything the week before your cycle. That is how you were designed to be. And if we're going and doing that and pushing pushing, we're almost like erasing what's because we're raising our cortisol and we're causing a problem. So the thing that maybe we're attached to like, oh, but maybe I'm going to gain weight if I don't work out as hard. That's, you know, this many days out of every single month. You add that like people who are really in that like frame of mind. Yeah. We're probably not doing any good basically. Like Yeah. Again, like you were saying, your mind is blown. Um, I think this is such an important conversation for all women to have because when we have hormonal imbalances, we have chronic disease. And so, and we have autoimmune. I mean, the autoimmune conditions, 80% of them happen to women. So, we've got to bring our lifestyle back in balance with our hormones. And so, it's is a little bit of a moment of like, wait a second, that's not how I feel. Well, let's let's roll up our sleeves and have the conversation as a collective group of women as to what we should be doing at these different parts of our cycle because we are not meant to live the same way, do the same exercise, the same diet, the same approach all month long. So, you had mentioned something I don't want to skip over. You were talking about motivation. I think probably people listening to this podcast are like, tell me more about that motivation piece and what this does for motivation. Yeah. Well, so our motivation hormone is testosterone. Mh. Mhm. And if you have a cycle, she comes in day 10 to day 15 and she ramps up your motivation. Whether it's your motivation to have a baby or your motivation to get a job or start a new project, she's there to really get you to um move forward. So menopausal women, which we haven't we we should probably touch a little bit on that. If we stay in a stressed state, we start to lose uh testosterone, which is why a lot of women who are either type A and or live a high stress life and they're going through menopause, their libido goes because testosterone goes. So testosterone is you got to cater to her. There's no food or fast I can tell you that will ramp up testosterone. Um, so testosterone does not like cortisol to be too high like progesterone. So usually it's a stress related thing when when women are have really low testosterone that's a stress situation. How do you feel about there's so much conversation around hormone therapy. How do you feel about that? Does that go along with intermittent fasting? Do you think it's a good thing, a bad thing? Um, I I'm really excited the conversation's being had. Um, I can tell you as a 54 year old post-menopausal woman, like that was an extreme sport, like wow, that menopause thing, it's a thing. Wow. Um, but what I've my experience has been is you could put H a hormone replacement therapy patch on and your life changes. I put one on and I'm going to kill somebody. M somebody else does a a testosterone pellet in their booty and they're like, "Oh my god, all I want to do is work out and have sex with my husband." Somebody else puts it in and now they want to kill somebody. So there there is a bioindividuality situation here. When we go into hormone replacement, you have to work with somebody who's going to help you nail which one of these hormones is perfect for you and and what combination. So that's the first thing I would say. Second thing, it doesn't give you a free pass from a good lifestyle. You still have to think about the quality of your food. You have to think about fasting really helps menopausal women. You have to think about pulsing in hard workouts and soft workouts. Like you can't just slap a patch on and hope menopause is going to be good. It's not that easy. Yeah. Sorry. Okay. No, I love I love that conversation though because it's like working with someone. You can't just go put pellets in your butt and Right. That's right. And like be like, "Oh my god, I'm horny and now I get a bunch of muscle." Exactly. Yes. I wish it was that I wish it was that easy, right? Man, maybe one day. Um, okay. So, I want to talk about sleep because sleep is obviously one of the most important things ever. So, when you first start intermittent fasting, does it affect your sleep? Do you feel it right away? Tell tell me about that. Yeah. Um, intermittent fasting, meaning 13 to 15 hours, shouldn't affect sleep. It should actually enhance sleep. Enhance sleep. So, um, the longer fast, like did you sleep well on your on your side? I some nights I slept like a rock and other nights I was like, "Oh, I'm actually done sleeping at 4:00 a.m." Yeah. So, I have a theory on that part on the longer fast, anything 3 days or or more. You know, when you go into those state, you sleep like four hours, 5 hours. Yeah. Totally. So, I went to go look for the research on that. I couldn't find anything. But my my gut feeling is that when you're fasting, you are in a healing state. When you sleep, you are in a healing state. Yeah. So, if you're healing during the day, you don't need as much healing at night. That's the only reason I can think you woke up four hours in. In all honesty, I was waking up rested. Yes. Yeah. So, it's probably because our bodies aren't, you know, digesting food all night or you you probably don't need all of the sleep that's required potentially. This is all theory, but that's what it felt like. Yeah. I I I really believe that that's for the longer fasts. There's a lot of other things about sleep we could dive into and um one of them is I think what fasting has done for a lot of people is it leaves them with the question of wait a second if if I was meant to fast what other things am I meant to do that I don't do in this modern world that's such a good question right so other things we're not meant to do is we're not meant to eat in the dark so that's one when when it when it's dark out melatonin comes in and when melatonin comes in, you're more insulin resistant. So, you're meant actually to eat in the light. We're also during during light hours during light hours, which is fine during the summer, not as great in the winter. Right. You're also not meant to be in all these blue light. Sorry about that. Yeah. Yeah. When I can't sleep, I'm gonna text you, Lori, and be like, um, excuse me. Thanks for all the blue light. So, yeah, red light at night. It's really important red light at night. Um we have in our living room where all of our bulbs turn to red light. You can they're easy to get. Um so yeah, get bring that red light in at night so that you don't get all the blue light. You also need like the room to be cold that you're sleeping in. You got to get your temperature down at least 3 degrees. And that dip in temperature tells the body, hey, it's time to go to bed. What's the ideal temperature for you? Uh are are you talking about like I'm doing this cuz my husband is always like, we don't need it this cold. And I'm like we do. How old are you? I'm 43. Oh, yeah. You're you're just tell them tell them get ready. It's going Tell them it's going colder. I'm like, it's getting colder. It's getting colder. Get ready. Yeah. Um, so yeah. I mean, if my room goes down Well, for starters, have you tried a a mattress pad that cools the bed? I did. I'll have to do it again. I had a chili pad for a while, but it broke twice, so I was like, "Yeah, mine did, too." Yeah, there are a lot of different ones out there, and that's the that was the only problem is it does tend to break. But if you're going to chill the room, mine goes down into the or 60s. Yeah. Okay. I'm let like 67. Yeah. I Yeah. Like I at 65 and below I think 63 is about my favorite. You like it really cold. Okay. Yeah. Great. I'm going to turn menopausal. Yeah. I'm 54. So you could you could decide. Um but yeah, you need to create some inventions for cooling. Like I want cooling socks like that actually you keep in the freezer and then you put them on at night because my feet get so hot anyway. Oh, that's a great idea. Or like a cooling cap. Cooling cap. Yes, you need a cooling line. Okay. I just I just tell my husband, "Put a sweatshirt on." Like seriously. Yeah. And we actually spent when I was in the thick of perry menopause, I actually spent a year in a separate bedroom and it was like a refrigerator. Yeah. That's great. It was like And I was so happy in there cuz it was so cold. Uh-huh. I know. I still like my blankets. That's the problem as well. I'm like, it has to be freezing in LA. It's okay. What did we not mention that we should know about I mean, there's probably a million things, but what do you feel like maybe we didn't cover about intermittent fasting? About intermittent fasting. Oh, you know, I think some of the common um hurdles that people get is or say to me is, "I'm not meant to fast." Okay, so this is a really tough one for people to hear. I've gotten a bit of flack on it on on some larger podcasts and I'm going to continue to say it. Okay. Every single person is everybody is meant to fast just like everybody is meant to sleep but not everybody can sleep just like not everybody can fast. So one of my big pet peeves is that people say well I'm not supposed to fast. And when you dive into that, you learn that they actually did not do well going 10, 12 hours because they were hangry, irritable, dizzy. That is a sign that you are met moving towards metabolic inflexibility. And you're going to want to work on your food. You're going to start to work on some baby fasts because you will see as you start to fast more that you actually can fast. You guys, Chris and I have so many businesses with so many people that are really important to us. Customers whose calls we don't want to miss or don't want to miss communication with. Then Open Phone is the number one business phone system that streamlines and scales your customer communications. It works through an app on your phone or computer. So, no more carrying two phones or using a landline, which Chris and I would talk about all the time that we wanted two phones to just try to keep our lives a little bit separate. And with Open Phone, your team can share one number and collaborate on customer calls and text like a shared inbox. That way, any teammate can pick up right where the last person left off, keeping responses and times faster than ever. Plus, say goodbye to voicemail. Their AI agent can be set up in minutes to handle calls after hours, answer questions, and capture leads so you never miss a customer. So whether you're a oneperson operation drowning in calls and texts, or have a large team that needs better collaboration tools, Open Phone is a no-brainer. See why over 60,000 businesses trust Open Phone. Open Phone is offering my listeners 20% off of your first 6 months at openphone.com/earn. That's openphone.com/earn. O pen p ho ne.com/earn. And if you have existing numbers with another service, Open Phone will port them over at no extra charge. Open Phone. No missed calls, no missed customers. I'm still dreaming about this trip we took last year to Paris. You guys, for me, there is nothing better than sitting at a cafe eating a chocolate quesson and sipping a latte, watching the beautiful, stylish people of Paris walk by. That is my literal heaven. So, if you heard recently on our he said, she Said episode, Chris and I asked each other if we could live anywhere for a year in the world besides where we live that we love so much, where would it be? And we both said Paris at the same time. and we've been there a few times, but last year we were hosting a mastermind trip in Italy and we're like, we have to make a pit stop in Paris because we're so obsessed with it. And thinking more about that dream of living in Paris for a year. I love this idea that if we did that, we could have another couple or family get to enjoy our space back at home and they're having the exact same experience of trying out their dream location. That way, we could make a little extra cash. Our home wouldn't be sitting empty. And with Airbnb's co-host network, an experienced co-host could take care of all the details while we're enjoying our dream of living in Paris. How incredible would that be? Where would you live for a year if you hosted your home on Airbnb and went on an adventure? I love that Airbnb is now making these dreams of living in different places possible. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/host. When you say metabolic inflexibility, what does that mean? Does that mean we're actually training our systems to never be able to go without? Yeah. You're not switching into that fat burner state. You're staying stuck in a sugar burner state. So, we actually want if it's almost like the more we feel we can't fast, the more it's important for our bodies to fast. Yeah. One of my one of my favorite podcasts I did on my podcast was um with a a cancer expert. And you know, cancer is a dysfunctional mitochondria of the cells. And um I asked her, well, how can we tell if our mitochondria aren't working right? Like what would be the first sign? And she said, the first sign your mitochondria aren't working well is the inability to not go without food. If you are that, and I was this person, I was the one who took snacks with me everywhere. I was the one that was like, "You didn't I can't eat. If you don't feed me in the next hour, I'm going to kill you." I was that person. So, I know what it's like to feel like you can't go without food. The more you practice it, the easier it gets. And that's the such the cool thing about fasting. I don't know any diet or fitness program on the planet that gets easier with time. Fasting gets easier with time because you as you train yourselves, you know how to do it better. So, I think that's the big one I I really want people to practice. Practice it. You will blow your mind and you will. And the other thing is you probably had this with the 7-day fast. You actually you said this. There's so much pride. Did you not feel like a badass? I I literally felt I mean for a whole week probably after I was like I can literally do anything because that felt it was such a clear how many choices you have to make in these micro moments all day long to break a pattern because I kept on the craziest part about that is I kept on walking into my pantry and I wouldn't even realize I was there and I'd be like oh my god I didn't even know I got up and walked into my pantry. It was so patterned. Yeah. To like go eat food that you just notice so much that I think in order to get through it, you do you become a different person in such a short window of time. Um that Yeah. I really felt like you can do anything. My mom and bless her heart, it's not any it's not it's just what she knew how to do. Yeah. But if you had a bad day, you sat down and you ate a meal with her. Totally. Same. I grew up that way. Yeah. So you not only did you have a bad day, not only did you get food, but you got mom's love. Mhm. So there was a lot of love and food attached. You know, it was a very nurturing experience for me. So when the I first started learning fasting, I was like, "Oh my god, I don't feel good, but I don't have this resource to make myself feel good." And that's when I identified, wow, what I don't just eat food for the for food. I eat food for emotional, you know, well-being. And it was like a mirror to be able to see that. And I think there's something really cool about that. It's like you get to see your relationship to food in a new light. Yeah, you really do. It's really cool. So, there's that experience and then there's the download experience we talked about. But I think the thing that I love the most after watching so many people do this is there's this when you get done with a longer fast, there is nobody who gets the credit. Nobody gets the credit but you. True. If I go on a diet, I could be like, "Oh, that diet was amazing. Whoever thought that diet up was great." If I have a trainer and she pushes me really hard at the gym and I get good results, I could be like, "Thank God for my trainer." When you stop eating and you fast and you experience that, nobody gets the credit but you. That's super cool. Yeah. So cool. Well, I have loved this whole conversation. Thank you. I could continue talking to you. I can't wait for your next book as well. Thank you. But for right now, Fast Like a Girl and you also have your podcast, the Resetter podcast. You also have um Resetter Academy, correct? Yeah. So, we have uh we have Resetter Podcast where I bring on interesting people to talk to. My academy is for people who want to practice all of this. And so, it's a lowcost membership group where we I've got a team of people. We do every other month we do a 15-day fasting experience together. That's not fasting for 15 days, but we play with a different length and different food things. Cool. We work out together on Saturday mornings. Um, yeah, it's a really cool community of women. So, well, I'm so grateful for you. Where can we go to get the book and all of that. Where's the best spot? Well, here we are a year later. Wherever you can go, bookstores, Amazon, um, is obviously a great place. So, where whatever is convenient for you. Um, uh, yeah, that's probably probably the best place. Um, if you want to, you know, learn more about fasting, my YouTube channel, I put out five new videos a week. Wow. You go. Yeah, it's a big it's a big part of what I'm doing. Um, so a lot of nuance about how to fast and when to fast and all kinds of things on my YouTube channel. So that's a good resource, too. Okay, amazing. You're amazing. Thank you so much for coming on. We're so grateful for you tuning in and until next time, earn your happy. Bye, everyone.