 things are just messy, like, things are not gonna be perfect whatsoever. I feel like if you have that expectation that it's gotta look perfect, you'll never make it. You'll try to record your first podcast, you'll be so pissed, it'll just, like, nothing will ever come out. We don't edit anything, like, it's just, like, put the song on the front end, the back end, that's it. Done is better than perfect. Yeah. That is, like, our full-life mantra. I'm like, look, I would love to be a master in some areas, and I think that's important, but, like, there's a whole lot of stuff that's just done, if you know what I mean. Rachel and Drew, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thanks for having us. I'm so excited to have you in person here. It's so much fun that you actually got to travel in person, and I love that I get to chat with another husband and wife who work together. Yeah. It's hard. No, it's not like hard to work together, but it's like hard to meet other people that work together that, like, don't bite each other's heads off. And I would agree with you, though. I would have to say my husband and I had to learn so much about how to work together in the beginning. We did not do well together in the very beginning. Like, the first year, I was like, what the hell did I do? We always say that as we, like, grow, as the businesses grow, like, I mean, our chest expand at the same time and everything, we have to expand in all directions. Really do. Because we work together. Yeah, I can't wait to dive into that. I'm going to, I have a few questions around that because I do think so many people have it as the dream of either retiring their husband or wanting to, you know, bring their husband into the business. And I think setting up kind of the expectations around it and knowing what works is so important, or you could, you can be kind of walking into a nightmare. Like, I literally felt like I was in a nightmare for the first year because him and I were speaking a different language. So what I would love to chat with you about, though, is I want to go back to Baby Drew and Rachel before you got into exactly what you're doing now. And I would love to know what both of your perspectives were on entrepreneurship and dreaming big. Yeah, we think that one. Well, we met as COVID was unraveling, unfolding. Okay. And I am Jim's and she had the salon and they were both just full freefall, you know, everything was shut down. And it was everything was beginning to get shut down. So we met and like, how's your business like awful, you know, trauma bonding. Yeah, a little trauma bonding. And then we just, we immediately just got just started helping each other, you know, with like, SBA loans and for the salons. And then I needed things that were I think we were building like a front desk or something. And she was helping me build the front desk and we had our kids together. We just immediately started making making moves, taking action to help one another. And that was the that was the beginning, you know, the early days. Wow. So you you literally met bonded over failing businesses. Yes. But then what what would you say it was in both of you that you stopped looking at the failure and started going, how in the heck do we make this work? It just wasn't an option to to like have it fail because I was like a single widow mom of two. Wow. Met him on Bumble. And you know, I remember, I think I will, the girl has to message the guy first, which I hated. I was like, Oh, anyway, I messaged him like, you know, I had no idea at the time. I'm like, Hi, like, what's up? What are you doing? You know, like, totally didn't know how to talk. How's your business? Yeah, because I was like a workaholic. And that's like all I did was just work, work, work and travel and teach. And so then when all those things were like plucked away, it was like, Okay, I have to like be home. I have to be like, go to work. Like what? So anyway, we met and I had messaged him and he's like, Oh, I'm building an invisible business that nobody cares about. And I said, Oh, well, what is it? And then that's like how we started then he's like, Can I call you? And I was like, This is weird. Like, you know, but I also like, you know, both my kids were sleeping with me, you know, at night, and I was just, I had one under each arm. And I'm just kind of like texting them, like, Great, you want to call me like, when I'm going to talk to him right here, my kids? Yeah. So I like, got up and went in the other room, took his call and we talked for like two hours about like business life and just how to just how to like, what is he doing to get his business out of a hole and me too, and all of that. So it was really interesting because like, we both just kind of like, we met the next day. And then I'd say, I mean, we were for sure like, living together by the end of the year. Wow. And you know, he had a son from a previous relationship, I had two kids from my previous marriage. And it just like kind of, I don't know, everything just kind of like fit into place. Is that crazy to look back on and be like, like you kind of can't believe that happened and that it all worked out the way that it did? Not really. I think it was supposed to happen for us. It was like, it was just, it was such a, it was such a fit, you know, and like we both had kind of fizzling relationships that were kind of not moving anywhere. And then for me, like when I met her, I knew there was a lot of responsibility there because now there's an expanded potential family and there's young kids, you know, and then the absence of a dad, you know, so as all that kind of just was there, it wasn't there and it was there. I don't know, you could sense something there, you know, with us and what we're doing and it was immediate. There was an, I didn't know what to call it. There's a connection and electricity around her and I, just obviously her and I, you know, romantically, but also there's, there's a lot of things happening around us. Like we were responsible. She was responsible for her team. I had a team and we just had a lot we were doing. So it just kind of made sense. Okay. So I know there's going to be women who are listening like, okay, how did you go into that relationship? Like were you both doing personal development? Like there must have been a lot of things you guys had to like talk through, be able to talk about hard things really quickly. Where were you guys both like personal development wise and being able to have those hard conversations? Yeah. I mean, well, she had been through some things, you know, I've always been a super nerd with development and those was trying to become a version of the guy I am now and then to attract someone like her, you know, so I'd been geeking out on stuff like that for a long time and she had her own story, you know, so. Yeah. So I, like I said, I was a single widow mom of two kids. So the person that I was married to actually just had, we were building a house at the time and our contractor basically like there's leans coming onto the property left and right and the contractor basically stole all the money that we had. So it went from like having, you know, things to like having nothing overnight and then, you know, compile a brand new business to young kids. My son Evan was two and a half at the time. Kenzie was I think five and then the man I was married to tried to take my life and then took his. Oh my God. So it's like I'm processed. I mean, I by the time I met Drew, it had been almost about three years and so I had already like gone through grief share at my church multiple times. I've gone through like therapy and all that kind of stuff. And then, you know, really just kind of throwing myself into just taking care of my kids and working. Like I didn't really like make time for relationships. I didn't really care to have, you know, much of a relationship. I was just kind of like, okay, I need to, because at a certain point, like I had to work. I had to get my, you know, personal life back in order financially. The business always did well, but it was like my personal stuff. Like I had to like not let that interfere with the business thing that was going so well, because if both of them went down and be like, I mean, we lose everything. So I'd already gone through a lot of that. And then just my faith really like that allowed me to just keep going. And then when we met, it was very much like, I think my mom and just everyone was like, Rachel, like you need a date. You can't just like be alone forever, you know. And my mom's like, I think also my mom was like, well, if you met someone and you got married, then I wouldn't have babysit all the time. So I think it's part of that too. Yeah, your mom's like speeding it along. Yes. So like my mom was so happy to babysit while we like had, you know, our first probably, I don't know, 10 or so dates just to kind of like see if this is going to go anywhere. But we ended up, we were both building an online company at the same time. This is like, you know, in the beginning of COVID, like I launched my first round of coaching for salon owners in like January of 2020, not knowing everything that was going to go down. And then him too, he was building online fitness coaching company. And so we were both already doing that. And he was really good at like sales and marketing. I was really good at social media and organic. And so like when we met, it was kind of like we filled in each other's gaps in that sense. And then also of course, in like a personal sense, you know, him with Ollie and then me with Kenzie and Evan, and it just kind of just fit. It was weird. And everyone around us was like, you guys are moving like really quickly or like you just met him or all these outside, you know, things. But I just knew him. I got like, no, like this is what we're doing. You know, and we've never like allowed other and now everybody else like, you know, it's like, oh, wow, like, yeah, yeah, we're meant for each other. Yeah. So I don't, I don't feel like there's, I talk about this all the time with people. I don't, there's like no timeline specific anything. And there's no good way to get over something or amount of time that I believe that you should take this amount of time to get over this and do this. It's like, I just have heard way too many stories like this, where all of a sudden it's just there is, it's so clear to the both of you or a partnership or whatever that looks like. So I love hearing this and I hope that it's permission for people to not have to follow some sort of timeline or guideline of what a relationship should look like. So I would love for you to just catch everybody up on, you know, how you both kind of came together exactly what you're doing right now and how that all like started to look because it sounds like you then had let go of some of your fitness stuff to come into this business. There, yeah, there was a moment of that. So Jim did that for eight years sold that to an online, was it like a smaller personal training or a large box gym or what was it? It was, it was like, well, I was a small gym trying to be a big box gym. So I got into the CrossFit world and when that happened and I was, you know, always really into fitness. So fitness is like the best thing that's ever happened to me and the worst in regards to like business, but I wouldn't trade it because I learned to kind of cut my teeth by trying to build a gym. It's very, very, very difficult. Just the churn is just ridiculous. So you like you, you get three new, you get three new members and you're like, wow, great day and then four quit. You're like, wait a minute, I'm backwards now. So it's an emotional roller coaster. Yeah. So humans, they be humans. They be human and I had a gym years ago. So yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. brutal. So it took an online high ticket, got a high ticket space, learned how to do that. We were actually in Florida on a, she went with me to a mastermind and no one would want to go to like masterminds of being so, and she was like, I'm down, let's go. I love this free guys. We're out there. I did my first high ticket deal on the phone in Florida, not in my oven gym. You know, I'm going from $180 a month membership to now $2,000, you know, client. And anyway, that changed my, that everything pivoted right there. And I was like, I can do this. I can do a lot of this. I can scale this. I love hearing that the one domino for anybody listening, like sometimes just that one tip just makes you go, oh, this now becomes possible. I remember the night. I remember the room. I remember what the moon looked like. I remember everything, you know, because that was just like masterminds. Was that from joining a mastermind and being around those people learning about high ticket? Because I didn't know what high ticket was other than like personal training packages, you know, I didn't know like high ticket space. Yeah, I didn't know anything about that. Yeah, we did that. And then that started going well, worked my butt off. And with the administrative stuff, like she's so good at like deep details. And I'm really good with people and talking and doing that. And it just started going and the salons, everything started going at the same time. But early on, she was like, we need to like, we need to team up. And I was like, no, you got the salon, I got the fitness and we'll just do that. But we were just working with each other. I was helping her would do some sales stuff and she was helping me with my mess, you know, my admin email mess, you know, and then we were just going back and forth. She had a sales team. She had a sales team who wasn't selling nothing. And then she's like, I need you to help on this, you know, she'd been helping me. So I was like, okay, so I got on the phone and I would close a couple 18k deals, you know, and then I'm like, there's some there's some clients and then off they went and I went back into my fitness world, you know, and then, but there was a moment I'm like, what am I, what am I doing? I just, I just did two deals on the phone, walking around helping my wife when we weren't married yet. No, no, no, no, we're married yet. Yeah, right. And then, and then I go back into my fitness space. So in $2,000, $3,000, and it's really hard still, the volume was just crazy, you know, and then I'm talking and just all kinds of weirdos, you know. So I had a moment. I don't remember how this exactly went down, but I think I probably went to her. I'm like, we should, we should just team up. And she's like, what a great idea that you have. She's like, I'm so happy you finally came to that conclusion. So once that clicked for me, I was just, I was done with fitness and we went all into the beauty space. And then I took over all the marketing and took over all of the sales. And then I think we grew by like 600% or something while, because we could scale it because of her organization and her attention and knowing our client and then my ability to, you know, make, make content and produce marketing and meta and all the things and then actually do the deals, you know, you know, essentially like the client that we're trying to attract is like me from, you know, five years prior. So it was like, he already knew that person, you know, he's like living with that person. So, you know, also I will say, I think one of the things that was like, had him be resistant to us working together at first, I didn't really help that my business was called babes in business. And so he was just kind of like, I'm not having babes in business, XO is my email. I'm sorry, I'm just not. I'm like, but why? So obviously, like we rebranded, everything became like seven figure salon. And so we were helping salon owners, you know, with the same frameworks and everything that I had been doing, but like it basically became like more obtainable for other people. She had the slums crush in multi, multi, multi seven figures, you know, on that front. And then it just kind of all just, well, that's kind of how like the coaching demand began is like, I was teaching for a global hair extension company at the time, I was doing their education, I was like building their academy out. And I was meeting a lot of people like all around the country. And almost everybody after class, like I would be missing flights or like running to my flights, like, because, you know, I'm wanting to be valuable and I want to be there and answer questions. But I'm also like, I got to get home by midnight to like be there for my kids, you know, my mom's leaving. And so anyway, a lot of those, a lot of those questions, I was like, okay, they're all repetitive questions. These are, I feel like every person I'm talking to, it's like the same conversation I need to, I need to create, like, and I was sending free resources and stuff all the time, didn't have a funnel, didn't have any of that stuff set up. It was more just like, well, this is what I do. Here's what I do. Here's how I, here's my, you know, exact template. So I just started like, I would say in 2020, when we all had some time, I started just like really indexed, like all the templates, resources, everything, like making them, and then just like filing them away. And then just digitizing everything that I had. And so then when it came time to like be able to help people build their business and so forth, I already had that audience from teaching and then just relationships I'd built. And then we already had like all the other stuff, we just didn't know how to sell it. And that's kind of like where Drew was able to take it from, like, I was doing like 60k months by myself. And then we turn around and we're doing like close to 300k months. So it was just like crazy how, you know, and like nothing changed other than him being able to like work with me together, like us work together and build it together, you know. And for some people, like 60k months is like, oh, wow, that's amazing. But like, we weren't able to help as many people until Drew came in the scene because they just didn't know about it. And so now we help Saloniners like build their own brand of hair extensions too. And then we're getting into the retail game with like shampoo, conditioners and so forth. And now we're just helping them like basically get their cost of goods under control and have a product that, you know, their client can't get anywhere else. And so that's kind of how BYOB Build Your Own Brand became a thing. And that we launched, I guess it'll be two years in March that we built that company like completely from scratch together. And that's just been absolutely insane. Wow. Okay, so ladies, you need to look for someone with your opposite skill set on bubble. Yeah. So we can multiply whatever your business is. Totally. Okay, so let's go over everything because I want whoever's listening to know if they're like the perfect customer for this. So let's go through your offerings. It's so funny. I have literally had your hair that you've done on my head. We figured that out. Because I went and got my hair done at a salon. This was way before we were going to each other. We found out who was a client of hers. And I was like, this is absolutely insane. While I was in Wisconsin, like just randomly for a few months. So we'll shout out to Anna. We'll send her this podcast. Yeah. I thought that was such a crazy like connection there. But let's go through all of the things you do again. I know that you just said it, but to really share who is kind of that perfect person who would come into your world. And what do all the offerings look like? Yeah, that's, we call her our girl. So we're always looking for a girl. Because a lot of what we do doesn't make sense for everyone. Our goal is not to have everyone become a client. But when we find her, what we do just makes a ton of sense. So a salon professional, sweet owner, primarily a salon owner with a team, she comes in and launches her own line of luxury extensions and by luxury, I mean like a marketplace, not like a cute buzzword that the beauty industry uses, but an actual like high quality. And the client cannot get it anywhere else. So they got to have exclusivity. And they got to have the highest quality, you know, in the hair world, like the level four Remy stuff, you know, and most of what's out there is not that. So that's where we've made a space for ourselves is by offering that high, high quality. And then we only we don't distribute to customers. We only distribute through the brands that we've helped develop. They own everything. We're just really helpful distribution. Yeah, sorry, inventory is reserved for like the brands that we have helped build. And I see that's it. Because in the extension industry, like extension companies will literally sell to anyone, they'll sell to like you, they'll sell to me, they'll sell to my freaking grandma, like anyone. What happens is, is the product itself, like it basically robs the salon owner of profit that she could and should be making by allowing the client to get a wholesale product, a professionally only product at a wholesale rate. And so like, like sidestep the salon owner. Yeah, what's even worse is like a lot of big extension brands, they'll have like hair available to consumers. So they're, you know, B to C and they're also B to B. And they're also on their website list, the actual discount that the customer or that the the salon owner could get. So that now the customer knows that the salon owner gets a discount. So it's just like this, they're like getting their margins. Yeah, sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off, but they're getting like their margins like blasted. Yeah, all over the world. Yeah, so what we do is like, basically, we help build bespoke brands. And so they, they come in, we help them get their pricing straight. We help them, we do a full business analysis of their salon. They're always leaking money, like all over the place. And the girl that we help, like she is slammed behind the chair. She's super in high demand. She's really good at her craft. But she just literally can't slow down to work on the business because she feels like she's gonna either lose clients or lose money or both. And she's likely missing dinner with her family, missing out on things on the weekends with her kids, because she's just so busy. And that person right there is literally who I was. Like, so I know exactly who she is. I know exactly like what her day looks like. And that's the person that we basically are looking for. And that's the person like when we do meet them, they know like this is absolutely a no-brainer, like what we can help them do. And we can turn their business around like really fast. Yes, we're able to help them not based on like, there's a lot of people out there that are helping in like theory, you know, like there's like, and that's all good. Like you read a book, and then you learn something, and then you teach that. That's how I think about like teaching theory, valuable, you know, schools often like that, you know, so that they're teaching someone to swim without getting in a pool. Yeah, there's nothing bad about that. But that just kind of is what that is how we think about it, where what we teach them is like we've, we've physically done what they're looking to do and have dealt with that specific problem, times 100, you know, and we can actually give them, I always say it's like, like there's like a forest and like we've gone through that we've kind of gone through the forest and it's scary and it's hard and we've come back to get them. And it's like, hey, I know you can't see over there, but like follow me and we'll take you through. And they're like, well, what if it's not going to work? I'm like, I know you can't. We have a path. Yeah, yeah, I just beat down. There's a path over there, and there's some monkeys, and it's sketchy, you know. Yeah, I've actually black topped this particular path right over here Yeah, so you have to follow us and we got you, but we've been there, we came back and we're gonna, you know, it's kind of how I think about problems in that specific space. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help other retailers may claim to have experts but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you three ways to shop one perfect fit. Whether you want to DIY have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay no hidden fees and there's zero pressure from blackout and motorized options to classic shutters blinds.com has window treatments for every room style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The black friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout, limited time offer rules and restrictions apply see blinds.com for details. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about. But then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where aura frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys aura frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video just download the aura app and connect to Wi Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your aura frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting aura frames.com to get $35 off aura's best selling Carver Matt frames named number one by wire cutter by using promo code earn at checkout. That's a u r a frames dot com promo code earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout terms and conditions apply. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about from what customers see to what they don't see like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U. S. With over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www Northwest registered agent.com forward slash paid earn. So for that client, this person has found you and what does like onboarding look like? Meaning, you know, are they working with you through courses? Is it one on one? Is it is it group coaching? Do you go into their business? What does that all look like? So I think everybody has a different learning style. So the way that our programs and our mentorships work is everything. It's like, it's a group format. There's online learning and there's also one to one component. So the one to one is going to be like their lead coach who's doing the business assessment, doing the onboarding call, getting them registered for classes, like really helping them step into more of like a CEO role as opposed to just like, Hey, I signed up for this thing and I'm going to immediately be successful. I'm like, well, you got to do the thing. You can't just like register for something and not show up. Yeah. And I think a lot of times people like when we meet them, they have tried other things or they think they've tried other things, but they haven't really like applied the things or shown up. And so sometimes people can be like, like a lot of times, like it's funny in the beginning, some of these salon owners will like no show their onboarding call. I'm like, come on. I'm like, this is literally why you're joining in the first place. This is why you're stuck. This is why you're stuck. Yeah, right there. Exactly. So like, that's the main thing is just getting them to honor their word, getting them to actually like be on time. And then from there, like once they do that, we're really like helping personally develop them into being better leaders, better owners, and to stop just thinking like a hairstylist, like hairstylist thinking is great. It's like they're scrappy, you know, they can, they can do that, but you can't like approach your business like you would approach a color correction. Like you have to have a plan and you can't just kind of figure it out as you go. And so we'll do that. We'll do the business assessment, we'll get their pricing structured correctly. We'll actually like give them a like 20 plus page business plan of like, here are the things we're going to do right now. Here are the things we're going to like put a quirk in and do in six months. But that way they can like really prioritize the money moves now and get like quick wins and cash injections into their business. Once they do that, because they're they're very like, I mean, anyone these days is like instant gratification. Once they do that, they're like, Oh, wow, like those simple things worked. Once they see that they're like in, you know, we've had clients that we've worked with for years. And our community is awesome. Like we have salon owners all across the country. We have some other countries that we work with. And we have people that have gone to like every single event that we've hosted, every mastermind we've hosted. So the community is great. But like, we also make sure they have the online courses and the other stuff to dive into. If they're more of like a binge learner like I am, they want to like get in there and like, you know, consume everything in a week, they can do that too. Yeah, you're really turning them into true CEO CEOs and business owners. Like I have so many girlfriends who have either owned salons or worked in salons. And obviously I've been I've been getting hair extensions.  L-carnitine, L-carnitine, allowed you to scale as both CEOs and spouses together. We're giving very difficult things to uphold and problems to solve, and there's so many problems that's comical. It is ridiculous. But that's what we asked for, and that's what we got. I say we played for a full plate, and then we have to eat it. A lot of times when you pray for something, you think it's going to show up one way, and it's like so not. If you ask for a big life, you're going to have a lot of challenges, like 1,000%. I think a lot of people, it's one of those things like be careful what you wish for it, but you have, if you want a big life, you want to be able to have impact, you want to be able to help other people. A lot of times that looks like you going through more pain than other people, and being able to just get back up and keep going. I would say another thing that really helps us work together is we don't interfere with each other's strengths. I know what Drew's really good at, he knows what I'm really good at, and we've both just understood if we're going to divide and conquer, we can't just be intercepting back into each other's lanes, and he trusts me to make decisions on the fulfillment and operation side, and then on the sales marketing side, I know what's going on, but I don't get involved in trying to figure out. That took me a hot second to learn in the beginning. What's really helped is actually dividing time where I'm physically not in my husband's stuff anymore, because in the beginning what was happening is we'd be on meetings together where you're still hearing about each other's stuff and the ideas that are going out, and then it was very hard for me not to weigh in on what I thought. I would say that was one of our biggest struggles in the beginning was the realization of let them take it and fully respect them and know, even if it's not the way that you would do it. It probably won't be. Yeah, it's going to be different, right? Sometimes you're going to be like, that was dumb. Yeah, that's a really dumb way to do it. You can just do it this way. But that is such a, it fully just kind of oversteps them, and it becomes such a thing between husband and wife, men and women, partners like that you just don't feel that mutual respect, and I feel like that's where it can break a lot is when you just don't respect the other person's decisions, like no matter if they're the ones that you want or not. Right. So you often say, simplify to multiply. What does that look like practically when it comes to building and running multiple brands? So it's hard because like, you know, we're both in our own individual masterminds that and that's another thing too. Like you've joined them separately for your own education. Okay. We're constantly like he's another masterminds, I'm another masterminds, and then we're masterminds together. Yep. So and we usually are just in like one at a time, like we're not like spread across multiples. But the reason that I like that is because I have my own learning journey and my own way of learning. And so does he. So where I'm, you know, where I learn one way, he learns a different way. And then a lot of the time too, as we like, you know, are learning things independently, we bring our own like version translated version of that back, you know, it's just sparks ideas, like my ideas I get are different than the ideas he gets. And then from there, we can like, together brainstorm and mastermind together and then birds, whatever that version of what we learned is. And so a lot of times with him, he likes to talk things out and like he learns something and he has to tell me about it. And I, you know, hear it out loud, where like, I'm not like that, I can just like learn something and I'll just like independently work on it. So you've had to kind of learn how to, okay, he's not, he's not asking me to create a task list to make that thing real. He just wants to talk about it. So yeah, he like teach it. If I could teach you, I understand it. And you talk it out. I talk much better than I write. That's actually, I'm listening to a book right now. It actually helps a lot of people, more people than not to that's how they learn it is to like reteach it and retalk it. And then she can she can just go super deep and like do that. And then she's awesome. Then I envy that. Yeah, I like that. Because I can, and for me, the more inputs, the better. So like I fly helicopters and I've recently got into that and aviation and love that. I actually want to do that. They're wild. There's so many, that thing does not want to go straight. So there's so many things, you know, there's so many things physically happening that you have to deal with and then you have to control all multiple planes of movement. And I just, I love it. Like I get it, you know, and it is chaos, but I got it, you know, and then I can be talked to and I can be taught things and I'm controlling this machine and I'm thinking about checking everything and listening to the weather and talking to the traffic. And like, and then while you're doing all this, oh, by the way, you got to call in and say you're five miles south as you approach the airport. And I'm like, I'm on it. He's like, you did that really good. Like I can talk, you know, I can do this and speak. But like, I'll have to go into the book soon. And then I'll have to like really, I can do it, but it doesn't come as naturally to me as like a bunch of inputs and like go. I think being in it, I think for like this simplifying part of it is like how we do that is like, we'll learn things independently and share the ideas, but then we both have the discernment to know like what parts of that feel right for us to put into our business. Because we've been in masterminds where they're like, you know, stop trying to increase your LTV, like just, just focus on new, new, new. And I'm like, that doesn't feel right to me. Like, but isn't like, why would I want to keep adding new people when I could just like work with these people for a longer period of time, help them be more successful and get them to order more, you know, of hair extensions or whatever it is, why continually like it, new, new, new. And so like it's hard because sometimes in masterminds, like, you know, I think, I think the ego can get in the way where you're like, yeah, we want to build a big sales team or yeah, I want to do this. And at the end of the day, like we've done that. And it just, I would say, caused us way more stress and chaos and headaches than, than just simplifying things and doing things the way that, that we've realized that work better. And then just like doubling down on what actually works instead of like trying to look cool or do bigger, have a bigger operation because it looks cool, but then your margins are like less totally. It's like such a waste of time. I think a lot of people don't understand that. So easy. Even I get caught up in it. So easy online now, everyone's just thrown out, I made this, I do this, this is what my year is. And I'm like, who's on the team? Yeah, how, what are you, what are your ads? Yeah, how much have you spent? Like all of those things because I used to get so caught up. I'm like, she made 20 million this year. And then I'm like, Oh yeah, but she has a team of, you know, 35 and their ad spend is X. And so it really is like exactly 22 million. Yeah, you, you literally have that's 22 million. We're in the negative. Marking joke. Exactly. But they get to put that out there. So it's really understanding like, I love that you have done all of that as well. When you go into these different businesses, because it's really asking the business owner, what type of business do you want? Like I think that's so huge. And you know, my husband and I are in different masterminds as well. And I get in different rooms and it is one of the big things is it's very easy to get overwhelmed and like you're drinking from a fire hose and you want to do all those big things, but then realistically knowing thyself and knowing how you guys work. So how would you say to like a more beginner person to figure that out when everything just feels, you know, like big and shiny and new when you're coming into like a mastermind or learning or listening to podcasts? Man, that's a great question. Yeah, I think you had to just pick like the first thing that came to mind is like, you just have to pick what's going to make the biggest impact for you. Like what's going to solve the most problems that you're having right now and then pick that thing. Because yeah, you might have this like bouquet of options that you want to do or should do. But you know, if you what I see a lot, especially in entrepreneurs is like, it's always exciting at that dopamine hit when you like start something new, but then you don't finish it. So then you will start this other thing new and then you don't finish that, you know, so a lot of people are in the industry or just any industry really starting a bunch of stuff, but then not finishing and they never really get to give that idea full a full go. And so just picking the thing is going to make the right impact. And then just earmarking those things that you like want to do, but they're not a priority right now. Yeah, you said she said something really good. That's that's what we do. Yes, we want money is all a part of it and money is only a part of it because that's just what humans have decided to it's it's people talking to each other, trade money for products and services. Like that's like the whole economy. You know, so that always that's always happening everywhere all the time constantly. So instead of like, I'm going to get in there and make as many transactions as like, how can we make the most impact with our clients and the money is a byproduct like you got to have all your pricing and your numbers and your margins in order and have all that correct. But if we can go make an impact with with the people that we're looking to serve, the money grows, you know, so rather than chasing the bag, you know, that's a byproduct. It's like it's like our little kids when they're playing football, it's like the leadership of that coach and that team, the communication is where they need to focus not the score because the score is the byproduct of what's happening over in the game. You know, so we're trying to be in the game and drive impact for the humans that we're that we work with and then the money just works. Totally. It's the result. Okay, so you guys are building what you call a full beauty empire. So instead of just one salon or just sticking to business coaching, what was the turning point that shifted your strategy from just being salon owners to multi company founders? The main thing I think is like, it was kind of like this thing we didn't anticipate people wanting to like work with us longer than just one time. So we was like, okay, cool, like we help them fix their business, their businesses, you know, 2024% profit amazing. They have two days behind the chair the rest of the time they can enjoy with their family and running their business remotely. So like that was like a huge win right there. Yeah. But then they were like, okay, so like, what else do you guys have? Like, what else can I do? What else can you help me do? Pardon? And yeah, give us five minutes. Well, the thing was like stuff that we were it was stuff that we were doing like already did, but we just hadn't shared with anybody and systematized it like you had systematized the other things. Exactly. Yeah. So it was more like like we had started our own hair extension brand. And it was just inside of our salon. And because I was working for a global brand at the time, I didn't like, I didn't tell anybody about it. Because I just was I just started with five colors. I just wanted to have five colors that I didn't have to reroute every appointment or low light or highlight to get the color back to where it was because the quality of the product started changing. It looked the same, but it didn't perform the same. And because I was so deep in with the brand I was working with, I was like, I can't like tell people this, like everyone in this company here is going to hate my guts. And they still kind of do. But um, well, not everybody, that's the cost, not everybody, but the owners, but all the everybody else, like they they understood why we did it. So like doing that, it was just like, okay, I when we launched it, which was at our March mastermind, like almost two years ago, I was like, I hope maybe like five people want to build their brand. Well, like the entire room stood up. We did a dope launch, though, like we did it like full stage. Yeah. But like we did it how you do a lunch. Yeah, it was cool. But it was like, I just hope five people want to build their brand. Like, you know, the time. Yeah, the production was amazing. Real dramatic. But we didn't have enough inventory to do more than that. Like, we like, we started like very small, we're like bootstrapped all of our own growth. So when we launched, did we have that shitty little? Yeah, we had those crappy little cards and containers. Big launch and then these crappy little carts. I'm talking like just a little like the craft right like what you put like craft supplies and like, yeah, yeah. So that's like a child. Yeah. Yeah. And we were like, we had like maybe a few packs of everything. And then we sold out, like, and then it became a thing like shit, now we can't now they want more, we don't have more than you're gonna get more, you know, like you're like, when you when you launch something, I think we underestimated like how great it would have how great it really went. And then I think we severely underestimated like how long all of these people would be working with us. And so we really like started helping them create their brand. And then now that they're making more money, they're like, well, what do I do with it? Now I have to pay taxes on it or have to go invest it. Like how do you guys do investments? Then we started like, okay, well, I guess we need to teach them how we do investments. And so it was just like this natural progression of like what we do. It wasn't hard to teach because we already do it. And we're like, you know, it's like normal for us. But to be able to help them do it too. And that's really what they were wanting is just like, what do you guys like, how do you guys do what you do? And so that's just kind of how it happened. A lot of the people that are in our in our communities, they're, they're married, they have kids or they want to have kids. And, you know, they all have teams, they all have people counting on them, you know, to make it work and be successful. And so it was just like a very natural fit for all of the different things that we could show them how to do. And so we have a program called CEO club, which is just like our private mastermind, we don't like post it on Instagram or anything. But like, it's more of a back end mastermind, like in our programs, invitation kind of thing. Yeah. So like anybody that's doing, you know, a million or more, like that's the mastermind that they could be a part of. And so we teach them how to do like tax free strategy, be able to do investments, really like, like giving them like executive assistant playbooks, nanny playbooks, like all the different stuff to just make their life easier. Yeah, we're not so much focusing on like the salon anymore in that program, we're more so focusing on like, how do you run multiple businesses without like killing each other. So, um, so like, you know, just depending on where people are at in their business journey, like we, we a thousand percent have a place that like we could guide them to, you know, and then the next thing is like, well, what's next? Not everybody wants to go all the way, you know, down that path. Some people want to like take a take a breather and pause and enjoy that for a few years. But like we have people that have been in programs with us and then they circle back two years later or a year later, you know, and they're like, okay, I'm ready to do the next thing. So us doing all that stuff, it could just kind of naturally fit. We didn't really like plan on building multiple companies together. It was more so just like, we want to help the salon owner create multiple income streams. Just evolve that way. Yeah. Well, the problems kept clearly coming up that were the same problems over and over again. So for, for the entrepreneurs that are listening, I think a lot of people struggle with something that it sounds like you're really good at. So you have identified the main problems. How do you guys take the time and create like, what does it look like? If someone's listening right now who's like, oh, I get that problem all the time, I would love to solve that. What does that creative process look like to create something? Like, do you go, hey, this week, let's set aside time to solve this problem for this business owner so that now you just said you've kind of got like a full suite that covers pretty much every problem that's coming up. How do you guys take that? What does that process look like to create that? I think it starts with like responsibility. So it starts with rather than early on in the days when something happened to the business, we kind of get very blamey. Oh, it's the economy, it's this, it's that, it's this person, this person. I think in the beginning, we took responsibility for the problem. It's like, okay, that person did that. We hired that person. That is on us. So that allows us to actually have a stable ground to begin to develop. Is it a hiring process? Like, let's go through that. And then we would go really from the bottom up or top down, whatever, you know, and get to the root of the issue and solve the problem rather than the symptoms of the problem. So are problems create symptoms? You know, are we solving symptoms? Or is there a problem that's causing those symptoms? And we really have to discuss it and understand what's happening. And then once you can understand what's happening, we actually solve it rather than because if you try to solve all the symptoms, it won't solve the problem. Then it's just a chit show, you know, nothing, nothing moves. But when you solve the problem, the actual problem that I think of it like a water, like a water hose, it's like the water hose unkeeks and then it's like, then you see growth. And this, this was like a mythological idea to me for a long time until we began to do that. We actually were solving the problems, not the symptoms, you know, and it started with like responsibility. So that's kind of the general way we do that. And then Rachel will go and like, you probably go into like the tactical and go deeper into the tactical. Well, I'll be like a thousand feet deep on like the problem and like figuring out, okay, from, from the owner point of view, like, what's that experience like from the client point of view, what's that experience like in a team? Because a lot of times like the client is going to go take this system or whatever it is back to the team. So then like, how can we make the system, the process, whatever it is, like the simplest that way that person doesn't fuck it up because sometimes that could happen where it's like, it can't be like this super complex system or process. Like it has to be simple. It has to be easily explainable because I need this owner to understand it so well that she can go teach it. And then that person doesn't forget 50% of what she just learned. Totally. So you like know it and understand it. So my Google drive is like very elaborate, very organized, but I have like all the different processes and things like all laid out. And then if there, I mean, we allow our clients to like basically submit ideas, like if they're like, Hey, I'm having this problem, or if I see something like on a recurring basis coming up, like I'll go on my own and just make a resource for that thing. Even if like, it's not a common problem for me or my business, you know, three or more people in the community are having that that come up, like I want to get ahead of it and like be able to give them something. And like what we do is so identifying the problem and making sure that we're not going 100 feet deep on a symptom, you know, so making sure she doesn't go way down deep and start building things for a system. And then it won't work. Like we've been able to identify that. And so it starts there. And then once we identify the problem and develop the tactical, the document or the overview of the system itself, like the checklist or whatever that system is going to be, we make that and then that will go on to a calendar and that calendar will go into two people and will hold the people responsible for said process. So our cam guy, Josh, as he's editing, it's this many units a week, it is here the shoot days. Here's what you need to do at the end of the day. Here are the here's the weekly production meetings that we have that sitting on and like the whole production crews on. And then we go over the numbers, we go over just kind of state of like what's going on, like this is the this our content suck is it good, like what's how do we how the ads doing how the this and that. And then we go and implement and deploy actions. And then we research the KPI. And then next week, it just it goes again. So I think problem, tactical checklist or documentation on like what you're going to do to to continuously mold the problem that you're trying to work on and then calendar people. You know, I think that's how it completes the loop of that. I think a lot of people will like create a like a they'll create something to fix the problem, but then they just like never check in and see how it's going. Yeah, I've been guilty of that before. I'm not a super systematized person. And I'm working so hard on it. But it's it's like sticking to you created it. Now you must go back to it weekly and hold people accountable. We kind of have this thing we do. It's like, I do we do you do so like, I'll do something or I'll explain something. And then I'll do it with that person. And then I'll let them do it. So that way make sure that they got it. Because a lot of times it was just like, I do we do. And that was the end of it. And then like, adding the, you know, you do part of it, like that actually made sure that, okay, now that thing lives with that person. And like, they got it, you know, and also just asking the team, like, do you got it? Or do you have questions, you know, and then just like supporting them around that filled them if they have questions, like quite all questions are good questions. Totally, you know, and then just making sure that like, you're available, you know, you're not like too busy to check in on that person. Yeah, which is the calendar for us. If they come to us between the set time, then it gets, it's, yeah, so you calendar and time for that specifically already. Okay, so for entrepreneurs who want to build real wealth beyond their business, what would you say are the first steps towards thinking like an owner instead of an operator? 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stopped thinking about that big idea. And you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store, choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in to create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you, handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm going to share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bralette connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle bralette and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting it anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery. It's soft. It's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn you're happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations, effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. What would you say are the first steps towards thinking like an owner instead of an operator? You got to make sure that you're trading your business like a business. Like you can love your people. Like I laugh, I have fun, I like have a great time with my teams. But at the end of the day, like it's my responsibility to make sure that business is profitable. And like that right there is like the main focus is not getting everyone not operating just to get everybody to like you and getting everyone to stay because not everyone's gonna like you and not everyone's gonna stay. But getting your business profitable so that you can actually build wealth through your business. Your business is just a income source. That's it. It's an income stream. I think every entrepreneur or every business owner who aspires to be wealthy needs to have multiple streams of income. Because that way you have like something to fall back on if that one thing isn't going well. And so like even as like we don't have just one income stream and I don't really know if I ever have like since I became an entrepreneur, like I've always wanted to have at least two or three.  naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, ni figure out what's your main money maker and like how can you get that thing scaled as quickly as possible You know to where you can then you know either keep it as an income stream sell it for multiple You know but if you're an entrepreneur you're gonna go make something else you're gonna go do something else like don't I never really don't think we're gonna like just you know retire and go live by the beach somewhere and don't work like I I can't even take a bath. I just get so bored. I have no idea. I'm just like, can this be over yet? But you just have to figure out what's the thing that's going to get you where you want to go and not be afraid to pull the plug on something if it's just not possible or you can't give your energy to it. That's sometimes hard. Having that going on but also understanding financial structures, understanding your policies and understanding ways to hold money and move money legally and do all that. That's a whole multi-day thing if you're looking to learn it. I think understanding how these things work and then the right types of accounts to start to move money into, that way you can keep your money, move your money and turn it into more money but also not get, not tricked, but what we're told to do with your money is typically incorrect. We had to figure this out on our own through mistakes. We've got our family bank all in place and all these types of things but we didn't get it right the first time. We've started multiple accounts and put money into these accounts that were not the right types of accounts to do what we wanted to do but we would just keep going and then we figured it out and built a really sophisticated family banking system for our kids and ourselves and we had to learn all that. That stuff takes so much time and it's so layered. A lot of times the money has come in and then you're like, oh shit, what on earth am I supposed to be doing? It is mind blowing all the different things that you can do with money, all the different things that wealthy people do to grow their money. That was one of the most eye-opening things for Chris and I when we, at a young age, our network marketing company really took off and we just were like, what on earth do you do? Thankfully we had someone that we were connected to who taught us, sounds like you're helping teach a lot of people which is mind blowing if you don't know what to do with that cash because you're losing a lot of it then. There's so much that you could be keeping or investing that people don't know at all, that you've never even heard of you guys. People try to take it from you. Totally, for sure. You don't protect it. You also have an event, you have a podcast. Tell me a little bit about those. Our podcast is called Brand Talk with Rachel Nindru. We get together every Thursday and we have either Rachel will plan a whole thing. We'll do that and she'll give me a documentation. I feel like did you go over it? He glances at it. He's like, yeah, I read it. Then the next episode will be just nothing and we'll just talk. Those are typically pretty good. People do want the tactical. They're giving me some juicy business stuff and then she knows what the girls want. Typically, we have a very large female based audience and then we'll do that. Then I want to make sure that they get to know us and then we'll just goof off for an episode. Our whole world is kids in business, hobbies and stuff like that. Drew has more hobbies than me, for sure. Every time he starts a hobby, I'm like, here we go again. I'm playing helicopter, flying helicopters, jiu-jitsu, fitness. It's funny, we were doing this family interview for our son. They get into the same school that his sister goes to. They asked both of us, so what are y'all's hobbies? Well, and Drew immediately, he's like, well, and he starts talking about all his hobbies, like listening to jiu-jitsu, I fly helicopters, I work out a lot, I'm learning Spanish. He has all these things. And then like, Rachel, what do you like to do in your spare time? And I'm like, shit, systematize our lives. I like to build documentation. No. And then I go, I like to decorate things, I think. And then Drew just starts laughing and I'm like, I need to get some hobbies. Because a lot of times I'll make my hobby becomes like a business, you know, which is like, I don't need to do that all the time. I'm the same. Yeah. We could do this. I'm going to teach people this. I know. It's like some of those things just need to be mine, you know, totally. But yeah, Soloncon, we've got an event coming up. We're excited to have you there. I'm so excited to be there. It's going to be in Miami in January. So January 24th through the 27th. And it's going to be at the Man in Windwood event, which is like this awesome convention center, so we're excited about that. And our events just keep, they just keep doubling in size. So like, this was, this is the first time we're doing an added convention center. We have normally done like cute hotels, but you know, this is for sure like going to be our biggest Soloncon event yet. I'm excited about it because, you know, it's for the whole Solon team. It's not, you should go to that. Yeah. It's not just for like the owner. Okay. It's for them. It's for their spouse. It's for their manager, their front desk person. It's for their A players. Okay. You know, I always tell people like leave your blast and cruise players at home, like leaving my home. Yeah. But bring your A players because like all those stylists that want to become educators, they want to teach classes. They want to start teaching classes for this owner's extension brand. Like that is like now you can create by learning these different things is like you can create other income streams for your stylist. That's how you get stylists to say. It's also a forced stylist that they want to know like how to level that. Like what's the next, like what does the industry, what's the state of the industry? You know, except we're talking to, oh boy, thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of Solon owners over the last years personally. You know, like we really have our ear to ear. The ground and what's going on out there for sure. Very much so, which is vital because so many people don't realize how behind they are in so many things. And again, how many new opportunities there are to make money that I know that you guys have for people. Yeah. It's really hard to tell someone they're behind without being like, you know, like you don't want to tell them, you know, you don't want to be rude or anything, but there's this, there's folks that are behind the curve on certain things in the northeast part of the country primarily. Look, I'm from the Midwest. I can go back and be like, y'all are way behind. What is it? Get on here. You guys, nobody's doing this anymore and here's why, you know. But there are people in those towns that are, I'll talk to them, they're like, no one's doing this because everyone's afraid to do anything different. And they want a different result. You're gonna have to do something different. More than have like a limiting belief of like what they can earn. Primarily money. Where they're at. And that's one of the biggest things I see. If I had a nickel. And I hear is like small town mindset. Yeah. A thousand percent. Like there are people out there that are paying X amount of dollars for that same thing and you're charging 25 bucks. Like I don't get it, you know, but like helping people see their own work. I think it's important too. And I think that's a lot of like what we do is like helping them see their own potential and like the potential that is inside their business. So that's what salon cons for is like the person that values beauty and brains. It's not like this. There's so many like party. There's so many events in the industry that everybody just gets shit faced at. And it's in just you guys. The end of one and spoke and my speaking thing was at the end and everyone was just drunk or gone. Yeah. And I travel like it was like a big thing. And they're like a thousand people. I think I had 25 people in the room of a thousand. Wow. It was crazy. Well, because then people are hung over and they don't show up for sessions. It's just a disaster. So like we don't. That's not what our events are like. Like everybody's there. They're learning. They're developing. They're they're learning either maybe mindset stuff to like be able to charge more earn more, provide more. They're learning hands on extension trainings. The owners are there learning how to literally like build family banking out. Like that's just stuff that nobody teaches in the industry. Like nobody. And so like depending on what they're there to learn, like there are classes for everybody in the team. So salon con happens once a year. We have other events that we do. We have a power couple event that we do once a year. We have a babes in business mastermind that we do once a year. Those are a lot smaller, like 50 people. But, you know, it's just like based on where everybody's at. Like I don't think everybody should go to a power couple event or everybody should go to this other event. But I think based on where they're at, like there's something for mostly everybody. I'd say trying to arrange a helicopter entrance for us. It's long. I think that's great. I waste money. See, I know. We just had helicopters at our mastermind. It was wonderful. They're the coolest thing ever. I'm like, Drew, that's too flashy. Don't do that. It's not. We just took a modest little, modest little helicopter. Nothing crazy. I want them still to be flying it while you come down. Yeah. From the helicopter. Yes. Yes. He's like, yes, I see this. Very good. We have two pilots. I would bring it in and then he could just hold there for a second just to make it dramatic. This is what salon girls want. Yeah. No, it's not. Here it is. I can say, you know, from somebody truly like I feel like I've gotten to see what you guys have done, which is so crazy to be able to say because, you know, when I'm from the Midwest originally and it is where Anna is, is it's tough with the mindset there. Like I left when I was in fitness and wanting to compete and I wanted to be on covers and I wanted to start my own gym. I left because everyone was like, why? How? You think you could do that? You're going to charge how much you want? What kind of life? And it was very, it was, yeah, it was such a challenging place to live and try to grow a business, especially as a female. And when I was looking for someone to do my hair, I literally can't remember how I found her, but I'm like, whoa, this salon seems like very high end for a small town. What is going on? And so I went. Got booked with her because I had like kind of said that I wanted to go there and I had messaged and whatever said a couple things about like, I would really love to like chat with the salon owner or work with the salon owner. And she ended up doing my hair and we ended up talking all about business. And I don't think she was, had been able to talk to other women about business. Right. You know, for a while. And I was like, whoa, like she really had her shit together. She's great. And her salon was running really well. I was like, this is crazy for here. Like I was just, it was such a standout for the area. And so now that I also get to see, oh, wow, like what she's gotten to learn and work with and the mindset piece was really huge because I knew that she had to do a lot of work. Yeah. She's a very, very current her husband and their daughter. I mean, it's amazing. And just to see like what she's doing and everything is great. She's a great leader for her. So to be able to see that in a small town though, and to be able to have such a successful business charging way more than the area is used to and still be so successful and still be full of clientele. Like I just want people to hear that who are thinking, oh, well, I don't know if that's possible for me. Like this is small town America. This is definitely where people do not want to pay a lot. They'll tell you that that's not going to work and it's still worked and she's doing incredible. So let's like to assume that no one in that town is has any has any type of success, you know, they're there and they want, they want the best. They want the best. Yeah. And they will pay for it and they're looking and then the business owners are like, oh, that's not me and they won't go there. They'll go to the girl who's like, that's me. I am the best. This is where you will find the top quality, the top services. I am the best. You know, and I charge for it. We also know, like, you know, no matter what town you're in, there are those people, especially if it's like, you know, the, the, I knew there had to be somebody at that point because the Packers. Yes. There and they're, I'm like, there's Packer wives. Who do they go to? Right. That's really what I looked for. I'm like, where are these 12 women go? I think that's how I ended up finding it. I don't know. That's awesome. I think for the person that like is, you know, is doing that and is going to go out there and like, say, Hey, like, this is what we do here. Like it takes a lot of boldness, a lot of confidence and like pep talking yourself to like get to that point where you're like, okay, no one's doing this, but I know, my God, like this is what I need to do. And this is like how I have to show up. And, you know, that, of course, people are going to talk about you. I'm sure like people are going to talk about you. If you're doing something different than ever. No matter what, but there's always somebody out there, like who's going to be able to see that and it immediately draws them to you. Yeah. And it becoming the best in the world at what you do. And like genuinely being, being that like you're actually that and you really are that. It's the obvious choice. You have the, you have, you just have it. You have that thing and they're like, what's that thing? It's like being absolutely excellent. Like everything is excellent. And, um, that was what I didn't quite get. I tried to do that in my gym. You know, my, my heart was there, but I wasn't that, you know, and there's people doing much better. But when you are the best in the area, no matter what you do, and you're the best at your marketing, you're the best at email campaigns and conversions, and you're the best at creating content. And you're best with people and you're best at staying organized and you're best at hair or whatever your thing is. You're just the best. You'll, you'll crush it. I also want to say as a couple, it's, it's so beautiful to watch that, you know, you had said, I wasn't the best at my gym, but you took what you're best at and saw how that could make what you're doing now the best. So it does take a bit of like stepping out of your ego and going, okay, I'm not great over here. Who is great over here? Or how could I partner in my business with somebody? Or who's got the skill set that I don't have? Cause I think there's a lot of people who aren't willing to be like, let's be honest, like I suck at organization. Like I hire people based off of like, are you organized? But how organized? You know what I mean? So I think that that's huge that you guys both like really like own your lanes. You know what you're good at. You know what you're not good at. You're not going to spend a lot of time in this stuff. You're not great at, you're going to go hire someone or you're going to try to be more, you're going to try to learn more about that thing to make up for your skill set. So I love that the both of you seem like you've really just like gotten into your zones of genius and hired the rest out. So yeah, thank you. Yeah. Thank you. What is something that you want to leave with everybody? I think the thing that comes to mind for me is like, doesn't matter like what you've gone through and like what, like everybody goes through pain. Everybody goes through problems. You know, you're going to have people that are very close to you that betray you, but like you can't allow that to like knock you down, like in, and not just not show up like who you truly are. And so for me, like especially going through the traumatic stuff that I went through and like becoming a widowed single mom overnight and like having to completely rewrite my life and like completely redo everything that I thought my life was going to be like, you're stronger than you think really. And obviously for me, my faith has been the huge factor as to how my life has been able to look the way that it does now and feel the way that it feels now. And I think a lot of times out there, you can see people that look successful or see people that, you know, it's like this illusion and really their marriage is falling apart, their businesses are not profitable. They could potentially hate each other. I mean, like, you know, with Instagram, objects are not always what they seem, you know, so for us, like it's, we prioritize our marriage first. We prioritize our, you know, our faiths, our family. And like as long as those three things are in, are in like, are good, like, doesn't matter if we're winning at business, losing at business, like we are going to be AOK, you know, and we could always, if we lost, we always say, like, if we lost everything tomorrow, like we would just rebuild. Yep. And we know that because we would rebuild together. Yeah. And I would say, I would say, um, dream bigger, you know, like if you, if you would have told me 10 years ago, we would be where we're at doing what we're doing. And I'm flying helicopters and we're doing, you know, we're scaling a nine figure company, you know, like that'll happen in a while. You know, so I would have never have thought in a million years. And you hear people say this, this is cool. You know, I've heard people say this when I was trying to figure it out and like, shut up, like nonsense. But you, your, your dreams have to be so big that you can harness a team's has their goals can live inside of your dream. And who do you got to become to facilitate that? You know, because you'll, if you can, if you can be clear on what you want to do by impacting people, I say the world, the world's made of people. So it's people. Um, and then you can keep that in your, in your crosshairs and you can keep moving towards it and then just be relentless in the pursuit of this crazy, crazy goal, like you'll, you'll get there. Do you guys still feel freaked out sometimes? And how do you deal with that freaked out? How so by the, by the big dream? Like, have you ever just taken really big leaps and been like, oh damn, we go over and over and over and over and over and over again. I'm over here saying no. She's like, no, I don't really get scared of anything because I just know like, okay, well, like it feels right to do it. You know what I mean? I always say this too. Like if we have clients that are like, oh my gosh, I'm so nervous. I'm like, are you nervous? Or is it really just excitement? Should be, you know, because like if you're not, you know, if you're not risking anything, like, you know, where there's risk, there is also reward. But if you don't risk, there's probably not a big reward whatsoever. You got to risk it for the best. Yeah, really. Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. And it's, it's more suitable now. Like we can, we can plan better. Like we can see the numbers work better. But earlier on it was, it was, I felt like every other, and this probably is me freaking out and we're just like, yeah, we're good. You know, I'm like, how should we figure it out? I'm like, I got to figure that out. You know, like we don't have to figure that out. I got to figure that part out. That's my part, you know? Yeah. And, uh, and, um, we did, you know, but it was always just like, I remember we did our first little event in Cabo and it was just like, oh my gosh, like we're doing this. And then we did another one and you got to pay crazy deposits on these things. And our first event, when we launched this thing, like we had to spend hundreds and hundreds of thousands and we were getting hustled by the Marriott. They were just smoking us on, on fees that now we know you don't have to pay. Yeah. I'm like, what for what? You're going to watch us load in for 7000. No. And then now we're just like, no, not to paint that. I think with every, like every, let's say mistake you make or every like issue that you come across and you get on the other side of it, you're smarter and wiser. And you know, now when we plan events, we're like, okay, like, we know we were coming into the conversation, like more seasoned than the last one. You know, we're always learning, always learning. And I think for people to like, just to not lose yourself in the process of becoming successful, like always stay true to who you are. And like I, like, you know, if he wants to enter Solon Con and that's just drew, like he just wants to like do that, like just as a guy, you know, it's not like he doesn't give a shit. What other people think about him is just like for himself, like that would make his own day. But like, I see a lot of people online that just like, they flaunt a bunch of stuff they like, you know, they're doing all that stuff, but they're like, absolutely not impressing anyone in the process. They're just like becoming more unrelatable by the second. And I think that's why I think people with like, you know, people with like millions and millions of followers, like I personally feel like I like my smaller audience because I feel like I'm very relatable to them. And, uh, and drew too, just because you just don't want to be like, just don't want to be like so just far from where you once were. I think you're allowed to evolve for sure. But like, as far as like your values, your morals, like who you are, like keeping all that stuff, like tightly close to you. So that way, you know, when you look back at your younger self, you can, you can still see yourself, but like you're just like the big sister version. Now. So where can we get more of you guys? I know that you do live trainings every Monday. And this is for the person who wants to pretty much do everything that we have chatted about. That's kind of a great entry point for them. So is, would they follow you first on Instagram? What does that look like? Or I can also put a link in the show notes. Yeah, definitely. I think give us a follow on Instagram just to keep an eye on what we got going on Rachel Pajik. So in mine is Imdra Thomas, Michael Drew Thomas. And then we do a live training. Yeah, we do a, a. Blueprint training. Yeah, we do a blueprint build their business and their brand or both. You know, some people are like, they've got a great business and they just want to build their brand of extensions or retail. Perfect. Some people, they want to build their own brand, but they just don't have the cash flow to like do that. So we want to focus on the business first and then build the brand after the fact. But yeah, I think that's a great place for people to just meet us, like in real life, like meet us and ask questions. We have a ton of free resources as well. So like just following us on Instagram and see what we got going on. It's probably probably the best thing for sure. And we'll be doing the lot. This panel in this air is, I believe the following Monday will be doing a blueprint live. Okay. So they can, they can register for that. Um, they'll get some reminders and then we'll be, we'll be live and then we can answer their questions and then just kind of show them a little bit behind the, behind the curtain. Okay. Amazing. Well, thank you guys so much for coming on. This was so fun. Thanks for always. I mean, I have a podcast because I love learning. So thanks for teaching me some, some good stuff today too. Yeah. Thanks for having us. Yeah.