Hi everyone. I'm Lori Harter and this is your spot to get the tips and inspiration you need to reconnect to your soul and fall in love with your life. So today I want you to scan your life and look around for what is causing massive contrast. What do I mean by that? Well, there can be some major things that maybe don't feel so awesome right now. Maybe you are going through the season of winter in your mind right now or in your life where you feel as though things are bleak and you cannot see the light of day or maybe the end of something, right? And these seasons are so incredibly important because they add contrast. They remind us how great summer is, right? you remember how bright and beautiful and vibrant pink is because you've been living in the gray. So, it's about thanking our contrast. And I know that's so challenging, but truly there there are people out there who've experienced some of the most challenging times in life. And they are able to experience even more joy, even more satisfaction, even more happiness because they know what is on the other side. Right? Sometimes when things are just so good and everything's great, we can't see how great great really is. So yes, if that is you, that's okay, too. But I want you guys to be able to thank the contrast. Thank those moments and allow yourself to be in them because without them and trying to resist them and get rid of them, they can last even longer instead of thanking them and saying, "Okay, what where's the lesson in this?" I so appreciate this because when it gets good again, right, it's going to be so bright and I remember how good it can be. So, just hang in there. Allow yourself to experience the feeling, but also make sure that you're doing the things that love you back, that you are going to the places that make you feel good, that you're reading the books that make you feel good, that you're hanging around the people that make you feel good. And yes, there still can be those times when even if you're doing all of the right stuff, you might still feel gray. And that just might be the season of winter. But remember, it's that contrast. So allow it, go through it, keep doing the things to help get you out of it. And I promise you, eventually you will get back to the sunshine. You will get back to the bright. So you guys comment below. Let me know what you're thinking. uh the what what contrast you're thinking right now, maybe what you're going through that's reminding you of what good really is, what it really feels like to feel great, right? Sometimes I always think that when I've eaten really bad or drank way too much, the next day I wake up, I'm like, whoa, I love feeling good. This just so inspired me to get back to the gym and I can't wait to eat healthy again, right? Because it turned my contrast way up on health. So you guys make sure you comment below. Let me know what's up for you. what's causing contrast in your life. And if you love this, share this with a friend. And I will see you next time. Bye-bye.