Hi everyone, I'm Lori Harter and this is your spot to reconnect to your soul and get the tips and inspiration you need to fall in love with your life. And today I want to talk to you about opportunities and having good luck. So do you know those people who just seem to get everything they want or they just seem lucky in life in general? Well, I truly know for a fact that those people create those opportunities for themselves. Now, if you're sitting there and you're like, "No way. I'm so unlucky. That absolutely doesn't happen for me. I never win anything. Um, you know, I never have great opportunities. I'm not offered these great jobs. I don't have these connections." Well, we have to go back and really look at how we've been living because nine times out of 10, those people are making themselves available to be ready for when those opportunities come or in the spots where the opportunities are coming or around the people who they know can offer them those opportunities. So, um, you know, as far as I if you want to create something, let's say you wanted a new job and you basically were applying for new jobs and you were doing it all online and you know, you were following up and you were doing everything that you think you need to get that new job. Um, but when you really go deeper to see if you are exhausting all possibilities, this is what I want you guys to do. Am I truly exhausting all possibilities? Ask yourself this question because when I asked myself this question and got really honest, I am not even touching the tip of the iceberg of what I could be doing to create even more opportunities for myself. So, if you wanted that job and you're applying online, let's say um you want a job, I'm just going to use a gym for example because that's something I know a lot about. And you're just applying online, but they haven't number one met you yet. They don't know your personality. They don't know what you have to offer. Um, are you making sure that you're getting everything are or offering things to them? What can you do for them? Are you hanging out in places where people who could perhaps give you that job or you could get to know are you setting up opportunities to get to know those people better and and maybe go to different fitness expos or just areas where fitness people are. So, it's never going to happen when you're at home. I promise you that. It's all about having to network or going uh and bettering yourself or going to different meetups or putting yourself in places where those opportunities are going to happen. So, um another example, I wanted a fitness uh cover in the worst way, right? And I know so many girls that say, "How did you get the how did you get covers of oxygen or all of the different things that you've gotten?" And you know, I used to sit at home and I used to email and I used to send them off all these photo shoots I did, right? I have to be doing everything right. I'm I'm doing what I think everybody else is doing. I'm going to send a photo shoot. I'm going to send an email and tell them, you know, what I've done or how I've placed in this fitness competition. And what I really learned is that these people are still people. It's all relationship building. It's putting yourself in the right place at the right time, making sure you're always there. So, and it's not just going to happen on the first round. You have to be so consistent with this. showing up at these places where the people are um getting in front of their faces, relationship building, um growing yourself to a person that is undeniable. I remember saying that one day to myself. Okay, they're going to ignore my emails and ignore what I'm doing. I have to become undeniable to these people. So, what did I do? I decided to build a community where I was making a large impact whether or not I was on a cover. I started enjoying my life in the moment, but I wanted to make a huge impact. Um, I started writing for magazines. I started submitting things all the time. I created a website of my own that was so valuable to people that shifted people so that I could show them what I was doing and that I had value regardless of their magazine cover or not. Add value, you guys. Everything that you do, you need to add value. So, be in the places and be adding value. And I promise you that opportunities are going to overwhelm you if you make sure that you are showing up and exhausting all possibilities. So you guys comment below. I want you to share a time where you've created an opportunity for yourself out of something that maybe you know you thought you were doing one thing but you created this beautiful opportunity for yourself so that we can all learn from you because that's where the good stuff is. So comment below, please share with your friends. And for more tips and inspiration, go to loryhearter.com. Bye everyone. Mwah.