This podcast is sponsored by the following sponsors: The Real Real. Buy and sell luxury clothing, bags, and more on The Real Real. Get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. Shopify, the e-commerce platform I trust for Glossy. Sign up for your $1 a month trial period at shopify.com/happy. Brevo. Meet the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform for your business. Get started free or save 50% for three months with code happy at brevo.com/happy. Airbnb. Start making money by listing your home on Airbnb with the support of an experienced co-host. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/host. What works for you in the beginning to get you to where you want to be stops working for you in the next phase. And I said yes to everything for 10 years. Every email, every ask, everything. And then it gets to a point where it's like to build what I set out to build for this community and to take it to the next level, you almost have to say no. It's so easy to get into that yes game, but it's like when does that yes game stop serving you? Welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. So lately, I've been asking all of my friends what supplements they take because owning the company Glossy, that's a beauty and wellness company. I'm always trying to think of what's next. You know, what are people doing? What do we want to replace? What type of stuff do we want and what do we need in these next products that I'm always thinking about? And when I was creating the original Glossy formulation, I knew that I wanted to put magnesium in it because so many people take a magnesium and I feel physically different when I take a really good magnesium. And what I started learning about magnesium is that a lot of magnesiums are actually synthetic. And yes, even the brand that I was taking from Whole Foods that's very well known is a synthetic magnesium, which was kind of a big bummer because I was taking it all of the time. So, when we were going through with my formulators and looking at all the different types of magnesium I could use, I got super interested in this one magnesium because it was derived from red marine algae and it's harvested from the waters of the Icelandic coast. And so, we went with a magnesium called aquamin magnesium and it's a naturally occurring multi-mineral complex. So, it's not just magnesium, but it also has 72 trace minerals in it. And you guys, it's becoming a really big thing to make sure that you get your trace minerals and remmineralizing your water. And it's also super bioavailable. So, it's really highly bioavailable due to its plant-based origin and natural co-actors that support absorption. So, the benefits of magnesium are huge. But, you know, with Glossy, the thing that we were really focusing on for this magnesium is that it is such a big support for skin health, hydration, and your own collagen synthesis. It has its own unique mineral matrix to it and it's also known to be gentle on the gut. So, some magnesiums have like that laxative effect which isn't super awesome. This one is definitely going to go easy on the gut and it's also eco-friendly and sustainably harvested. So, that's why we chose Aquaman. But the other magnesium is called magnesium citrate and it's a synthetic compound made by combining magnesium with citric acid. and it is highly absorbable, but it also can cause digestive upset. So, that's what we were talking about, including loose stool and some cramping. And of course, there's still benefits to it. But you guys, if I'm going to take a magnesium, I want to know that it's a really good magnesium. And I also love knowing that it's from a natural source. So, if you guys do take a magnesium now and you want to say, you know what, I would like to be taking a whole lot more in one stick, I would love for you to go try Glossy because the benefits are literally unmatched. I will never go a day without Glossy in my life. If you want to go check it out, you can go to getlosce.com. And because you're a podcast listener and I'm freaking obsessed with you, you get 25% off if you use code happy. So you can head over there and check it out. I would love for you to try it. And today you guys, I am doing another throwback podcast and I just have to tell you this is one of my favorite entrepreneurs of all time. Like this woman inspires me quite possibly more than anyone else. And that is Lauren Bostik. She's the founder of the Skinny Confidential and the Skinny Confidential podcast, partner of Deer Media, the largest female marketplace in audio and the podcast incubator of the future. So, I am bringing back this throwback episode way, way back because she's an amazing entrepreneur, an author, mom, trailblazer in the podcast space, and co-host of the Him and Her Show with over 200 million downloads. Hello. This is insane. She's such an example to me of what it looks like to fully show up as yourself in everything that you do, like podcast, business, social media, just all of the things. And she truly has launched a company that fully aligns with her and her obsessions. And in this episode, you'll learn how to redefine boundaries, embrace personal evolution, and build a business fueled by authentic connection. If you've ever felt overwhelmed by constant yeses or wondered if it's okay to evolve into someone who needs different boundaries, then you're gonna love this because she brings the realest, most refreshing energy when it comes to carving out space for yourself so that you can genuinely grow. You guys, this conversation is packed with permission slips to say no more often, to share what really feels right to you, to be wrong sometimes, and Lauren's best practices for building a podcastbased business around a passionate community, and also her think week hack for clearing mental clutter. And I know that she still does that to this day, and I'm totally obsessed with her humor. So, let's dive in. I hope that if you weren't a fan before, you didn't know who it was, that you absolutely fall in love with her now and go obsess about her stuff as much as I do. Okay, let's get started. Lauren, I'm so excited to have you on the podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you for having me. I'm so excited to be here. It's funny, I've been following you for AI mean, years now. I got to meet you a while back during my book launch and got to be on your podcast. We do kind of a pod swap and that's really when I started following your journey and just being inspired by all of the different things that you've done. And I think what I love about you most is how you step into what seems to be like every interest and every part of yourself. Like you are that person that I would say she is being fully her and as as fully transparent as possible on social media. And I I know that probably comes with so many different emotions and so many different things that come with sharing such a large part of your life, but I also think it is one of the most amazing things because it's been beneficial to me. It's helped so many different women build their business, help with self-care, help with motherhood. Like you truly are, you know, documenting and sharing and helping so many people. Does that come with a lot of pressure or does it feel really fun to you most of the time to do that? No, that is not where I would say that the pressure comes from. And thank you so much for that intro. That was so nice. The pressure is not coming from sharing so much info because I've really made it clear that I am not telling you to do anything. I'm sharing my experience and my journey. And it's like take what you like, leave what you don't. I'm very much not going to apologize for who I am. And I'm not forcing anyone with a gun to follow me. So, if someone's following me and they pick something up, amazing. That's what I want the whole platform to be is like this very cheeky pink resource. But at the same time, I'm not going to like preach politics or, you know, being vegan or being paleo. I'm not going to preach to anyone. I'm just going to share what I'm doing, what I'm experiencing, and other people's tips and tricks and have other people on the podcast. But the space that I've created for the community is super non-judgmental. So, we've had every different kind of walk of life on our podcast. And I always say, just because I have someone on that you don't like doesn't mean I'm agreeing with them or not agreeing with them. I am going to continue to have polarizing conversations just to have them. And I think there's been many episodes that people, you know, people have gotten cancelled, you know, like Stacey Schroeder's gotten cancelled. She's been on our podcast and people have been like, "You need to delete that episode." I'm not going to delete the episode. It's a media outlet. So, we're going to continue to have conversations with all different kinds of people. And that's what I really hope the Skinny Confidential is is like this non-judgmental place where you can just pick up hacks and tips and tricks, use it as a resource, take what you like, leave what you don't, but come with an open mind. So, Lauren, like listening to that, I think a lot of people right now are like, I want to do that. Like, I want to be that. I want to, you know, I want to show up that way. So, was that a decision that you made? And I'm sure there was a lot of conversation around it, like trying to figure out where you stand and like what you're going to put out. What did that conversation look like when you were kind of, you know, coming up with those boundaries and clarity around what it is that you want to do and be and how you want to use your business? Because I think the more that I talk to women and talk about their fears, it really is about like, I don't want to share the wrong thing. I don't want to say the wrong thing. and it's really stopping a lot of people from getting out there where you have like this clear decision and you're going to stick to it. I think that it's really important that if you don't want to share and you don't want to show up in a way where you're having all different conversations, then you shouldn't. I I think I think if you want to talk about, you know, politics or religion or, you know, I know someone who talks about, you know, her Mormon experience, like I think you should talk about what you want to talk about. And for me, since I was born, I've been an oversharer. It's it's my personality. Like, it's just I'm I'm showing up as who I am. And I think where people get fearful and they get confused and they take too long to execute is when they're like, well, I want to show up like an oversharer, but I'm not. So, I would tell them to show up how you are. if you want to just talk about, you know, one subject or you want to preach veganism or you want to talk about the Paleo diet, like that's what you should do. And for me, like my whole life, my parents raised me in a way that was really open-minded. And that's not that sometimes is not a good thing. Listen, I get in trouble all the time. I'm not saying that my way is the right way. I think that that just my personality is very much like take it or leave it. And I'm sure I alienate a lot of people, but I've just realized very early on in my life, and not even through social media, I'm not for everyone. And I that's okay. I'm not speaking to everyone. And I don't want anyone to follow me that that feels, you know, triggered or upset. I I don't think that they should follow me if that isn't their jam. So, I think that the the message is like show up how you want to show up. Don't show up how you think you should show up. So good. So you've moved lately or you've moved recently and I feel like you've moved around a little bit. Tell me about how different environments impact you in just about where you are right now, where you were, how you're managing relationships with moving with what you do. That is such a great question that I've never been asked and I love that question because I think environments impact you so much and I feel like everyone has realized that since going through quarantine and co I got pregnant and I started to notice that my intuition was telling me that LA was not the the place for us anymore. I think that it served the purpose of my husband building Dear Media and us building the podcast at the time and we were living in a certain area that that wasn't the right area for us and it just started to be sort of stressful there and I noticed that even when I was taking a walk it was like and this might sound stupid but my cortisol was up and just things that I started to pay attention to when I was pregnant. I don't know if I had like a like a like kind of like a six sense. I was very sensitive. And then obviously I had the baby in January and then lockdown happened and I just really sat down and got really clear like I do with my business with my environment and I was like, "Okay, forget what everyone thinks is cool. Forget opportunistic, you know, events. Forget all of that. Like what what do I want?" And I think Michael and I just had a really clear conversation about being purposeful with our environment. And so we're in LA all the time. And LA is definitely still part of our life. We work there, but to live Austin has been really incredible for us. It has this very mother earth energy. And I feel like here I have space. I And I can't explain it other than like I just have space to create. And in LA, it was someone's birthday every single week or there was all these different things pulling at us all the time. And here, I just have like this stillness that has been so good for my mental health and my self-care and my relationship with my daughter and my husband. And I don't know if we'll live here for 5 years or 10 years or two years. I think that we're just gonna sort of live our life in kind of a nomadic spontaneous way. We're just going to sort of see where it takes us right now at this moment in time. Austin is the place that we feel like we should be. Oh man, so good. It's so funny how podcasts typically, not typically, it seems like they always fall in the exact day and eat them. We're we're in the space of splitting half the year between Arizona and then we want to go back to California, but we're deciding between like Los Angeles area or Newport area. And I'm just we just spent a week at an Airbnb in LA and I kind of noticed the same thing. I was like, "Oh, it's so good for opportunities, but it there's almost too many opportunities." And then it's also I noticed my cortisol was up everywhere I walked. So that's really funny. So thank you for that. No, it's very it's very it's a very high energy and if you're very sensitive to like frequencies and sounds and loud noises and cars, it's hard to find the space. And also, you're so right. There is so much opportunity that it's like, but when does opportunity actually work against you? Tony Robbins says this thing, I I know you're a fan of him, too, where it's like, what works for you in the beginning to get you to where you want to be stops working for you in the next phase. And I said yes to everything for 10 years. I said yes to a fifth grader's book report. I said yes to going to proposals with my audience. I said yes to everything. every email, every ask, everything. And then it gets to a point where it's like to build what I set out to build for this community and to take it to the next level, you almost have to say no. And it's such a shift and it's a mind [\h__\h] and it's hard because it's change and it's a transition. And so in LA, it's so easy to get into that yes game, but it's like when does that guest game stop serving you? So, I want to know what is a belief that you had to let go of from your past, maybe even a recent past. Actually, I'd love to know one from your childhood and maybe a recent belief that you've had to let go of in order to really step into the woman that you are today. That's a great question, man. I would have to think about that. I feel I feel like one of them is definitely that I said yes so much and then it wore me out. I also think and you can probably relate to this, this is like a cliche one, but it's really true is like you hustle so hard. You hustle, hustle, hustle, and then the hustle works against you. And so you have to you have to figure that out. And then I think even with noise, certain things were very chaotic. So I've been attracted to the chaos. And what I've realized is like to sit still and to be still and to meditate and to think. like actually I have a think week every every year where I just think is so beneficial to getting to the next level of whatever that looks like. So I think probably for so long I told myself like go go go go sit still and now I'm to a point where it's like no the stillness is actually going to take me to where I want to be. M God, I'm resonating so hard with that because it's it's the opposite of what I feel like doing right now because things are so in flux that I think just like it's that addiction to busyness and thinking you're getting somewhere and productivity and and I truly can convince myself that I feel better with it. And sometimes I do like sometimes there are seasons where that feels better, but then sometimes there are seasons where you do it and it's just like you're you're feeling more lost and more confused. So your think week sounds super interesting. I would love to know what is like one of the biggest things if you could remember that has maybe come from a recent think week like what are some things and emotions and feelings that come out of that week? Yeah, I think I've really learned a lot from from Ryan Holidayiday who obviously everyone knows about being still and then I kind of mix that with like a Warren Buffett who you know talks about planning the next six months, the next five years and the next 10 years. And I think being having that think week, it gives you the ability to think macro and not just micro but also go micro. So, for instance, if I'm planning like if I'm laying out the next 10 years of my life and how I want that to look, I'm able to create those little micro systems during a think week. And if people want more information on this, because this might sound like overwhelming, I have a highlight on my Instagram. It's called Think Week, and it like sort of walks you through what that looks like. It's not my idea. It's actually Bill Gates's idea. And he goes away for a week. And I I just think being with your own thoughts is one of the scariest things that anyone can do. It's so petrifying. Like the second we're with our own thoughts in line at a grocery store, we get on our phone. Like, and so to really learn to sit still has changed my life. And then also just I think another thing is like changing your thought patterns. There's a lot of thought patterns that we have that we don't even know we have that aren't serving us. And so being able to pay attention to my thoughts and then change those those thoughts to something that's working for me. I had a really hard time with how much weight I gained during pregnancy. And I noticed that all the talk that I was talking to myself was so negative. And I didn't even know it until I I read this book um it's by Louise Haye called You Can Heal Your Life. It's a very popular book, but basically it's just paying attention to what you're telling yourself every day. And so I started just shifting my mindset on that and it really changed a lot. And that sounds so stupid and easy, but I think that it's not just the foods we eat, our diet, it's the content we consume, it's what we're reading, it's the podcasts we're listening to, it's the people we allow in our life, it's the text messages. All of those things make such a difference in your mindset if you're monitoring them. And so to be able to have a think week, it's not just about my business. It's about friendships. It's about relationships. It's about what's working and not working. And I just think to be able to sit by yourself for a week and my my husband's usually there and my daughter. I don't mean like by myself, but I mean just having space on my calendar, the best time to do it, this is a hack, is two days after Christmas because everyone's checked out, which is amazing. It's [\h__\h] amazing. like you put your thing on your email that says that you're not available until like the 7th and you just take advantage of the time when everyone's hibernating. And I was talking to my sister about this the other day. I said, "It's so interesting how the day after Thanksgiving, everyone doesn't want to do anything. It's like the weather and the the energy changes and you just want to be inside and and be alone and and like rejuvenate." And I think that we're in that season right now. We're about to go into it. It's like take advantage of it because starting February 1st, everyone's back and kicking again. That's so true. It's like an actual shift. It's like you walk outside and you're like, "Something's different. Something is totally changed." Okay, so speaking of seasons, if you had to name this chapter of your life, what would this chapter be named? Ah, this chapter would be names. That's a great question. It would be called a working on my business, not working in it. Oh, that's good. For work, for work-wise, not for like my whole life, but for work. Tell me about that. I've just realized that that working in my business does not work. And what I mean by that is learning to delegate, working on the macro, not the micro. not saying no to almost everything like I'm I have an away message on my email that says I'm sorry I'm not like I'm I'm working on my product line having space to write potentially write another book changing my number I just changed my number I've had the same number since I was in fifth grade and I just changed it and I only text messaged 30 people and I was like this is my new number I like creating space so I have the ability to take what I want to do to the next level. And I think that that's a lot of mindfulness and thinking and figuring out like okay putting an away message on my email people like so many people like oh my god I can't believe no like I can't be living in my inbox all day so I check my email once a week and I have an away message like I'm not going to be reacting to everyone else's to-do list. I have to be proactive and it also means not checking my phone in the morning when I wake up and consuming content that is entertaining or adding value to my life. I just think like monitoring all the different things that are coming at you. There's so much coming at us all the time. Even to be honest like I I don't even watch people's Instagram story. I watched three people that I think add value to like hell and business and um life in general or maybe that make me laugh, but other than that, like I don't want to just sit and watch people's Instagram story all day long because it's taking away from your own life. And I just think monitoring those little habits that we do without thinking every single day is so important. Oh my gosh, you're reminding me about like when I was writing my book, I had to if if I wanted to hear my own thoughts and think for myself and have energy, I had to like block everything out because I couldn't tell what was mine and what was other people's. And I also noticed that like it wasn't giving energy to myself. It was actually taking it away. So it's you're you're inspire inspiring me so much just around getting excited that there's a lot of lowhanging fruit that I can do to get more energy back and more just like richness of life you know. Yeah. I mean it's I think like you know writing a book you cannot screw around like you have to have writing time. Writing a proposal is a big deal and writing the first draft is like nothing. you have to go back and edit it that I mean and then like you have to pick the cut like there's a million things you have to do and to have all these different distractions is just taking away from what you set out to do. Okay. So I feel like you have a you know a great relationship with your husband. I feel like you've got like a lot of really great family priorities. I would love to know and and just life in general like especially just talking to you like I feel my energy lifted. I feel super inspired. So clearly you're doing something right. What do you think is like when you and Michael are talking like what do you feel like is a secret that you two know about life and relationships that you wish more people understood but not everybody would necessarily agree with or wants to do? I'm so excited to share that this podcast is sponsored by The Real Real, the best place to shop authenticated luxury bags, clothing, watches, and so much more. Personally, I love finding unique, elevated pieces that feel like me, and the Real Real is one of my favorite places to discover them. Whether I'm looking for a one-of-a-kind Zimmerman dress or a classic YSL bag, I know I'm getting something super special and I'm getting it at a great value. The Real Real is attainable luxury that upgrades your personal style. With up to 90% off retail, you can finally have the pieces you've been dreaming of from brands like Gucci, Fendi, Prada, and so many others. Unlike other resale sites, everything The Real Real sells is authenticated in person by luxury and fashion experts. The Real Real is the go-to place for your next special piece. Need a dress for a fancy wedding? The perfect vacation sandals? Ready to invest in a new bag to add to your collection? Find exactly what you're looking for that no one else has at The Real Real. The Real Real is the world's largest and most trusted resource for authenticated luxury resale. With thousands of new arrivals daily, no one does resale like The Real Real. And now get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. That's the realreal.com/happy to get your $25 off. Start shopping now at the realreal.com/happy. I know we're always looking to take our business and marketing to the next level. So, meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement, and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customers interactions in one place. Nurture leads through their built-in CRM. Reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations. Effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right message at the right time. And that's not all. Revo offers AIdriven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter, not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first 3 months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com/happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. When I was very first starting Glossy, one of the most important things that we wanted to make sure we had was an incredible customer experience. when they were on the website and when they were checking out. And I knew that it would be so incredibly important to make it seamless for them. And that is why we chose Shopify because nobody does selling better than Shopify. It's home of the number one checkout on the planet and the not so secret secret with Shop Pay that boosts conversions up to 50%. And we all know if you don't have a great experience, you're going to bounce. And that is not a good thing for a business. And with Shop Pay that boosts conversions up to 50%. That means way less carts are going abandoned and way more sales are going shing. So if you're into growing your business, your commerce platform better be ready to sell wherever your customers are scrolling or strolling on the web, in your store, in their feed, and everywhere in between. Upgrade your business and get the same checkout I use. Sign up for your $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/happy. That's all lowercase. Go to shopify.com/happy to upgrade your selling today. Shopify.com/happy. I personally think for me that I would not settle for anything that didn't make sense to me because of society standards. And what I mean by that is you're told you get married and you have a baby and you do this. I do not want to live my life by the status quo. If I was not with Michael right now, I think I would be dead single. I don't want to settle with someone just because it's like checking something off my to-do list. I would rather create a really fruitful, creative, happy, fulfilled life by myself than settle for less. And I think that there's so many people that are so focused on like checking the box of what society wants for them is that it ends up one feeling like a desperate energy which I think turns people away and two they end up being unhappy because they settled for something that's less than they deserve. And my relationship I'm not saying is perfect but it's the right relationship for us. and I can't imagine being with anyone else. Like, he's the person and the teammate that I should be with. And I I think that we've been really mindful about making sure that it's the right fit. And if it didn't work tomorrow and it, you know, didn't continue to work for like a year and it wasn't right, I wouldn't want to be in a relationship that's miserable. I just don't think it's worth it. That's funny. Chris and I um talk about that all the time. We're like, "Okay, well, because we're always checking in with each other kind of like, is this still the role that you want to be playing? Is this, you know, working? What does this look like? Like, what does your ideal life look like in this amount of time?" And seeing if all those pieces of the puzzle fit. But we've had really open conversations like, "Hey, if you don't hold up your end of the bargain, like, I'm not going to stay in a miserable relationship that's not a fit anymore." So, I think those are conversations that people are afraid to say and to have. And if anything, I think it's made us even more close and more excited to be on each other's, you know, trajectory. Yeah, I totally agree with you. I think that we're also like fooled by the Instagram facade. No relationship's perfect. Mine is not perfect. There's many things that annoy the [\h__\h] out of me, and I'm sure they could say the same. But where I think for me it would become a problem is if we were pushing boulders up hills, but they were separate hills. I want to be with someone where we're pushing the same boulder up the same hill. I like I I because it's like if he's doing his thing over here and I'm doing my thing over here and it's not collective and and teamike. It's like what are we doing? Why are we in a relationship? And I don't just mean with work. I mean with parenting. I mean with sex. I need like with everything. That is so good. I've never heard it phrased that way. I love that. I will carry that in my relationship. That is awesome. The same boulder. You're like you're on the same team with the same vision. I love love love that. Okay. I want to know what's the conversation that you want to add to right now? Like what lights you up? What do you love talking about? What's exciting you the most? I am absolutely so passionate about building a product based business that's communitydriven. So involving the audience in every single step of the way. It's what I want to be doing. I don't want to be this like business person behind a desk. I want to get my hands dirty and visual. I'm I want to be talking on a mic. I'm a creative person. And like sitting in a finance office for me like you know having to manage a bunch of employees is not what I want to be doing. I want to be very much in a creative director role. Definitely writing another book. I will always love reading and writing books. That's like something I'm very passionate about. Even if it go it's probably out of style. I don't care. I love creating a book and I love reading books. So that's something that I love. And then now that we're getting out of all this this [\h__\h] for the past year and a half, I think connecting with the people who have supported the platform in real life. So whether that's like live podcasts or getting out there and like supporting what they've done, I think that I the community that the Skinny Confidential has created has been so amazing to just like connect everyone and I think in-person events are what people need right now. M wow. I super resonate with that. I I'm like in that same boat with creating products that are really communitydriven and I'm getting really clear on what role I want to play in this business. So yeah, that's really powerful just like keeping yourself in your that zone of genius or that creative space where your energy is lifted. We were just doing an exercise with my team and really trying to figure out where that is for each person to make sure that the energy is there cuz it is it is kind of like what you it's exactly like what you said. It's pushing a boulder. Um, but you want to make sure that you're you're also pushing the one that you know you have that you have the most energy for, not the one that you're like, I feel like it's going to crush me at any moment. Like, I can't do this anymore. So, and I think that we can get really caught up in that, especially as women from women that I've talked to is thinking you kind of have to do everything at first, but getting, you know, being a CEO and understanding where you best work like and finding those people who can do the things that you are not good at and stopping thinking that you need to do them and get out of that as fast as possible. 100%. I think a lot of influencers right now are creating product based businesses, which is so cool. You don't want to get into this thing where you're creating a product based business just to make money that you've white labelled that you're not passionate about. I think anything I create like I have to be able to actually get in there and create it with my own hands. And I think that that's the beauty of what we've been doing for all of these years. A lot of the influencers like they've been able to to talk with their community and learn what they like and what they don't like. And I think when you're creating something from scratch with that community, it's so much more powerful when you launch it for everyone involved. For you, you're stimulated for the community, for any other brands that you're working with. Like, it's just a lot of synergy. And so, I think that to really get that passion, to be able to, you know, feel like you're starting it from the ground up and not just doing it to make money really makes a big difference. Oh my gosh. Yeah. I'm totally in that right now and observing where like I'm like this is not going to work if I don't get back into creative role and talking to the community more. So that was super helpful. Tell me about creating your products because you have right now well you have an awesome book Get the [\h__\h] Out of the Sun which I just saw at the bookstore which I was it's so beautiful like I'm in love with it. You love it. But I wish you were in it. Oh well your next book. See you're going to write more. It's great. I know. I wish you were in the next one. The next um and we put your ice roller in our beach guide because everybody's obsessed. And now you have a razor which I love because I have been shaving my face for a while. So we're Okay. Well, I will send you a razor. Email me your address. And also if you put anything in your gift guide, send me it so I can post. That is so nice of you. Yeah, you are. Seriously, it's I I love what you're creating. You're such a role model for number one just authentically showing up as yourself. Like I know that you've heard that probably a million times before, but I really want you to understand how freeing that is. I think it's the ultimate gift that a woman can give to another woman is to show what that looks like, especially in such a non-judgmental way. And you know, you are that person who can step into you give permission to step into all of it. like you know you can unapologetically just love whatever the hell you want that seems you know maybe to other people who who even knows right like I love pink as well just ba basic right but then you're so deep as well and you intertwine them in the most beautiful way and so I think you're such an awesome role model for being both like the both life the and life fully you and just watching how you just manage maybe different different challenges with such grace so I'm so grateful for who you are out in the world That's so nice, God. I mean, I feel the same way about you. I mean, I think what you've done for women is absolutely incredible. You've opened so many doors. So, thank you. That means a lot. Thank you. I would I would love to just hear we'll kind of wrap the conversation on what that has been like to write a book and create these products and how did you know that these were these were the ones? I had horrible jaw surgery 16 hours where I was left so swollen and I became like someone who had their PhD in swelling. I learned every single thing and I couldn't believe at the time this was like this was like seven years ago. I couldn't believe that there was all this skin care on the market and to put on your skin, but there was nothing really to to fight the inflammation. And I was like, "This is hell." And the only thing that worked was ice and manipulation. And so I got one of those shitty plastic ice coolers off Amazon and I would just use it all day long. and it was like a blog post that just blew up when I posted it. The hardest part about starting a business is often getting started. Build your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Starting your business should be simple. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered Agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping businesses launch and grow for nearly 30 years. If you want to build your business while keeping your personal information secure, Northwest is the partner you need. In just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, they'll form your business, create a custom website, and set up your local presence wherever you need it. Form your business for just $39, plus state fees, backed by real business experts with decades of experience. Protect your identity and keep your home address private by using Northwest Address on your information documents. Don't wait. Protect your privacy. Build your brand and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit Northwestregisteredagent.com/earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwestregistered agent at northwestregistered.com/earn. Okay, everyone. I have something big to tell you because for the very first time, we're opening up something we have never done before. You probably know that Chris and I run our elite mastermind for entrepreneurs making 500K and up with many of them being seven and eight figure entrepreneurs. But now we're launching the mentor collective mastermind for those of you who are in that 25K to 500K range and ready to scale. This is the most supportive mastermind on the internet. Imagine having a round table of mentors, a board of directors for your business that you can tap into for every roadblock that you hit. Sales funnels, finance, marketing, we've got experts for all of it. And now you don't have to sit by yourself at home banging your head on the wall wondering what the hell to do next. You're going to get weekly group coaching, bi-weekly calls with Chris and I, highlevel trainings, and an insanely connected community that actually shows up for each other. We built the room we wish we had when we were in the stage that you're in right now. And now it's here. Spots are limited. So, if this sounds like what you've been waiting for, head to luryhearter.com/weightlist. And those spots are limited because we have so many incredible coaches who are in this program that we want to make sure that everything is really hightouch. So you guys head on over. We would love to work with you. I literally cannot wait to meet you. So for the past few years, Chris and I have been in a really exciting, busy season of travel. whether it's for the podcast or speaking or meeting with our teams who are all over the country for both of our startups. With all the traveling that we do for work, for holidays, and also having had a lakehouse for 3 years that we only spent summers in, I often thought that it would be so awesome to have another family enjoy our home while we're away. We've made so many memories in Airbnbs over the years. We love to gather our family and friends together in a home away from home, whether it's for a annual Christmas ski trip that we do or because we always want to travel back to our family for Easter every single year. And I love the idea of your home getting to be a space where other families get to make lasting memories while you get to make a little extra cash. Did you know Airbnb has a co-host network that can take care of all of the details for you? With the co-host network, you can hire a quality local co-host to take care of your home and guests. Experienced co-hosts can support you with everything from creating your listing to managing reservations, messaging guests, and more. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/host. And I was like, "Do not use this for, you know, just swelling. Use this for beauty when you're hung over." And like my community just went wild with it. And probably like two years in to to that experience, I was like, I need to create my own and I need to figure out all the pain points of this product with the community. And so I just started talking to my audience and really just wanted to create something that wasn't on the market while disrupting a category. I didn't want to create like another lotion. It needed to be something that was really particular. So that's where the ice water came about. And then every single thing that we launched is just another disruption. Like the razor like no one everyone is so scared to say they shave their face as a woman. I've been shaving my face since high school. It's not a big deal. And men are aging way slower than us because they're shaving their face. And so it's like let's start the conversation around these things that are taboo and like people are embarrassed to share but also make it really cute and pink but effective. Yeah. I love that. Just listening to your community and also just sharing things that have worked for you that maybe you know you wouldn't necessarily talk about. Yeah. I love that. Plus your makeup goes on so nice. It's such a big difference with between putting ice on your face and I'm not even saying buy my ice. Go put your face in a bucket of ice. The I the ice is like you can't The ice is the best beauty tip in life because it's going to tighten your pores, shrink your capillaries, it's lifting the face if you're rolling. Like there's so many different benefits and then you mix that with the razor and it's just like these little skin care hacks that I feel like haven't been talked about enough. How do we connect better with our communities? What do you think that is? I would say that it's important to personalize the experience. So, if you're a fashion blogger and you're not answering where you got your shot from, you're in my opinion, what are you doing? It's it's your due diligence to answer your audience because you decided to be a fashion blogger. Like, if someone is asking me a question on my Instagram and I don't want to tell them, like, you have to be like very open. It's like the girl that you're like, "Where'd you get that shirt?" and she's like, "This whole thing, I don't know what you're talking about." You You have to You can't be like that in my opinion. If you want to connect with the community, you got to be open. I mean, I've been asked every single question from how big are your implants to did you have zaza like C-section or vaginal birth to who my gynecologist is. Like, I'm like very like open with my community. And I also think there's so many little things you can do. If someone DMs me, I'll send him a voice note back. Not every time. Like I do what I can do. But a voice note is like so personal. It's acknowledging. I think when they post to you saying thank you, like thank you for the support. I post my audience as small business as much as I can. I'm not perfect. I do what I can do since becoming a mom and full-time with product. It gets harder and harder. But I think making the extra effort to understand that you're not the hero. The audience is. So good. Let's end on favorite girlfriend date and piece of your best business advice right now. Favorite girlfriend date like was my friends? Yeah. Kips and salsa with a skinny margarita with half rims of salt with hoodies on at like at a Mexican restaurant that's dark and just like very chill. No makeup. I love it. I thought at first you said ships and salsa. I was like I like cruise ships. That's fine. This is just chill. Ships and salsa. Um, okay. I love that. Don't have to even get ready. Okay. And and best piece of business advice. Best piece of business advice. I know. No pressure. Oh my god. Um, there's so many. I would say if you're going to launch a product based business in this day and age, do not underestimate content marketing. M meaning if you're going to come out with a hair product and you're a fashion blogger, why do you think that people should buy that hair product? I have seen so many people just launch something because it's like cool to launch a lip kit. I knew I wanted to launch an ice five years ago. Mhm. And in knowing that, you can start creating the right content and engaging with the audience in the way so that when you launch, everyone is invested in it. I think it's a huge miss and it's a lack of patience to disregard content marketing. And I've been able to see the difference because we're co-founders in a company called Bloom More Play, which is the coconut oil loop. And that didn't have a there's no influencer behind that. It's not me behind it. It's it's a it's a brand and I've been able to see that against the product line that I've recently launched and it makes such a big difference. If I was a creator right now, I would rather wait five years and content market and then launch than launch today. And that's probably going to piss people off what I just said because a lot of people are like just put it out there. I think that just putting it out there is the content marketing and laying the foundation before you launch a product. That is so good and I love hearing that. I feel like that's what I've been attempting to do this last entire year. And as much as I'm like upset about being delayed right now, I'm also so grateful because it just gives me more time to do that. Yeah. Honestly, everyone is in such a rush to like get it out there because everything on social media makes you feel like everyone's doing everything that you aren't doing. Y and what I've realized is like if you're patient, you can build the next Glossier. And the Glossier, you go look what she did. She had a blog for seven years before. Blogging about what was in people's beauty cabinets. Like go look at the people that are really really crushing it in this space. They have all content marketing. Damn, that's really good. Okay. Well, I'm so inspired. I have loved this conversation. I could talk to you all day long. Again, I just want to tell you how grateful I am. Even if you I know that so many people, you know, especially you're out there in the world all the time. I don't think that you hear it enough, though. I think you need to know how much you are impacting people on such a massive level. I think especially your peers that maybe you don't even realize because you are just out there yet with really beautiful boundaries and I think that that is one of the most powerful things right now. So Lauri, I just want to say thank you so much for coming on the podcast. I know this is going to be so helpful for so many women who want to still have that great, you know, life and be able to hear their own thoughts and just have space, but also really crush it out there. So really grateful for you. Thank you so much. That is so nice. Thank you for having me on. Anything that you're doing, please email me, DM me, whatever, and so I can support with what you're doing. I like have been a fan of you ever since you came on the podcast. So, your story is amazing and I feel like you're someone who like has really worked their way through adversity and all different kinds of things. So, thank you so much for having me on. Oh my god. Thank you. All right, you guys. If you love this podcast as much as I did, which I know you did, make sure you share it with a friend. We are so grateful for you always. And we will see you on the next show. Bye, everyone.