Shout out to the sponsors of this episode. Skiims shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com and let them know we sent you by selecting earn your happy in the dropown after checkout. Airbnb. Host your place on Airbnb. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/cohost. Shopify, the e-commerce platform I trust for Glossy. Start your $1 a month trial at shopify.com/happhappy. Headway, the number one book summary app. Use code happy for 25% off. and Brevo. Head over to brevo.com/earn. Use code earn to get 50% off starter and business plans for the first three months of annual subscriptions. And blinds.com. Save $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Go to blinds.com and use code earn at checkout. In America, we have been taught to see pain as bad. We've been taught to medicate it. All you have to do is turn the TV on. Any problem you have, they're going to say that there is a pill for it. We've been taught to avoid it. We've been taught to out eat it. We've been taught to outdrink it. We've been taught to pick up Instagram, to distract yourself, to go on Tik Tok shop. But pain is actually one of your best tools. It's your compass. It points you toward what matters. Hey everyone, welcome back to the show. It's time for another quickie because there's always time to fit in inspiration. What if I told you that pain will get you further than motivation ever will? What if I said you don't need more inspiration, you need to change your relationship with pain? I want to tell you about a conversation that I just recently had where I was in Arizona. We flew to Arizona on Labor Day, you guys, and did a podcast with Pace Morby. And so instead of cooking out or having a day off, we chose to have a really big opportunity. And I will tell you, a lot of times the big opportunities are not convenient. And we literally flew there, booked a studio, and had this incredible twopart interview that was about two and a half, three hours in total from start to finish while we were there of this awesome conversation. And one of the things that Pace had mentioned on the podcast was a story about how scientists are working really hard to try to get rats to eat rat poison faster from these rat poison traps that get rid of rats. So, I know that right now if you care about animals, this might be a tough story, but let me just explain to you exactly what I mean and what was learned within this scientific experiment. So, for years, in order to control, you know, the rat population or the infestations of rats, they have been putting out these rat traps and they've been trying to lure them faster to these rat traps to quote unquote solve the problem quicker. And they have been using so many different combinations of every food and motivator that they thought would motivate these rats into this trap. As many things as they possibly could think about, right? This is literally people's jobs. They've tried every mix of food, different flavors, different fats, different sugars, different salts. Some are rotten, some are not, but nothing really exponentially sped it up. They did find a mix of it was some sort of rotten cabbage and I think like a syrup or honey or something like that that kind of sped these rats up. But after that they started asking a different question. They thought what if instead of motivating these rats with something that they want, right? With something that they think they want and what their body is telling them that they want. But what if we started using pain? What if we started to make these rats be in fear? What if we started using fear and running away from something that they are afraid of? So, they took the scent of a cat and they took the scent of a cat and they put the scent of the cat behind where the rat was and they put the cabbage in the syrup in front of them, but they put the scent of the cat behind the rat. And this sped up the rat. I think it was like three times more than anything they were able to do with motivation of the food, right? Of the pleasure. And they realized that pain and fear was a much more powerful motivator than pleasure ever was. And I will tell you that I have done over 1400 interviews on my podcast and what I have learned is that the most successful people in the world were able to pull future pain forward. And we like to think that we're above rats, but you guys, we're actually not. What moves us isn't pleasure. It's truly avoiding pain. And the most successful people have learned to pull that future pain forward. So instead of waiting until the end of their life to feel regret and not chasing their dreams, they let themselves feel the pain of the now, the pain of if I don't do this in 5 years, where will I actually be and what will I feel like? What will my marriage look like? What will my kids think of me? What circle of friends will I have? Will I still feel so unfulfilled in my friend group and in my life? It's the pain of saying to your kids, you know what? It's okay to play small. It's okay to not go for your dreams. It's okay to struggle with money. This is how it is. This is who we are. It's lying on your deathbed thinking, I never went for it. It's not knowing what kind of pandemic or economy or what AI is going to do and just kind of passively sitting back and not being prepared for anything. You guys, these things are happening. These things could come. And not to scare you, but I kind of want to scare you because pain is the thing that can motivate you into getting all of the things that you could ever dream of in becoming the person that you came here to be because pain is fuel. Why do you think when you ask a successful person about their past, they probably have some very painful story that they are avoiding? They will work. They will go through the challenges. they will do more work because they know what they're avoiding. And this doesn't mean that you had to have had something massive happen to you in order to wake up. So, if you're sitting there and you're thinking, "Well, I don't have some, you know, crazy thing that happened to me. I haven't had a major money loss. I didn't go through a terrible relationship. I haven't ever been divorced." It doesn't matter. You can actually pull future pain forward. And if you've ever been to a Tony Robbins event, you know that he has this section of his events of every UPW Unleash the Power Within where you sit and you think of all the pain that you've ever gone through in your entire life and you think of future pain. You think of what your life's going to be like in 5 years if you don't do the thing. In 10 years, in 15 years, in 20 years, you fast forward to your deathbed. You guys, you pull all that pain forward and you bring it into the present. you have the realization that if you don't start taking action right now today, that is your reality. That is your reality. Because in America, we have been taught to see pain as bad. We've been taught to medicate it. All you have to do is turn the TV on. Any problem you have, they're going to say that there is a pill for it. We've been taught to avoid it. We've been taught to out eat it. We've been taught to out drink it. We've been taught to pick up Instagram, to distract yourself, to go on Tik Tok, shop. But pain is actually one of your best tools. It's your compass. It points you toward what matters. Pain is trying to tell you what's wrong. If you've ever had a pain in your knee, what do we do? Go get the aspirin. Go get the Tylenol. Not, oh, why did this happen? Am I working out wrong? Should I be working out more? Should I be working out less? Should I be doing something different? Pain always has a message for you. Except we've been taught in America and around the world now to numb it. And I was just listening to an Emma Greed podcast where she was on Mel Robbins podcast and she said that one of the biggest things that has been so distracting to us in life in general is that we have been taught to seek joy. She talks about the rule of thirds. And I have been so guilty in my life of like I just need to feel happy all the time. And the rule of thirds says that in life no matter what you're going to feel happy for onethird of it. You're gonna feel meh for onethird of it. And you're gonna feel pain or awful or not good or depressed for onethird of it. And if you're going to feel pain no matter what, why not choose the pain that actually leads to something extraordinary? Why not build the things that you want? Why not fail until you get it right? And here's the problem. We're in the consumption trap, right? We're in a consumption trap. And here's the truth. You truly have consumed enough. You've consumed enough inspiration, podcasts, books, quotes, master classes. You don't need more. You need more execution. Consumption without creation equals constipation, you guys. It's like a spiritual constipation. It's a life constipation. You are getting all of this information and you are stuck. Maybe you don't have a plan. Inspiration without execution actually equals self-persecution. It's chosen persecution to continue to consume without action. So you have to start taking action. And I would be doing you a massive disservice if I told you that you didn't have to take painful, scary action every damn day of your life. You have to change your relationship with fear and pain because if you don't, you're never going to go anywhere that you want. Fear and pain is a good thing. It has lessons for you. So, I want you to think about this. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with your customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24/7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every single time. Get started for free today or use codeappy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com/happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. Ladies, I have to share this because it is too good to keep to myself. Bras and underwear have always been a bit of a struggle for me. It's hard for me to find something that I absolutely love. And it feels like when I do, they're discontinued or I can never find in my size. They either dig in, they roll, they scrunch up, or just feel uncomfortable halfway through the day. I wear a lot of white. I wear a lot of form fitting clothing. And so, I hate the fact that you can either see your intimates or they roll or they just don't look right. And I honestly thought that this is just how it was until Skims, you guys. I finally tried the Fits Everybody collection and I'm I am literally blown away. Like, I thought they would be good, but I had no idea they would be freaking amazing. The material is unreal. It's buttery soft. It's breathable. It molds to my body like a second skin. It's sexy. It's literally the best fit in fabric I have ever worn in my life. And I got the fits everybody triangle bralette. The thong and the dipped front thong. And I'm not exaggerating when I say I am obsessed. The bralette gives me the support I want without ever feeling like I have really anything on. The thong doesn't roll up or bunch. And the dipped front style is so flattering and comfortable. I forget that you even have it on. And you guys, I will never go back now. I'm going to replace everything in my drawer with SKIMS. I'm obsessed with the material. I'm obsessed with the color. And if you ever struggled with intimates that don't feel right, I promise you this is the solution. The comfort, the fit, the feel, Skiims nailed it. Shop Skiims fits everybody collection now at skims.com. And after you place your order, let them know we sent you. Select podcast in the survey and be sure to choose earn your happy in the drop- down menu. And yes, you guys, this is an ad, but I am literally obsessed. This is the brand I wear and that I'm replacing everything with. I want you to think about all of the athletes in the world. And let's just use football as an analogy right now. Even if you're not into football, I know that you know, maybe you've watched a game, you've seen it, all the commercials are coming up because football season is here. So, I want you to think about football players. Why do they go to training camp? Why do they go to training camp? It's not just to run plays. It's to recreate every painful scenario that they're about to be faced with on the field. And when a rookie goes on to training camp, you can tell they're a rookie because they're not quite prepared for it. They get a little rocked, right? their expectation is maybe not quite there for what they're about to step into into the biggest opportunity of their life. Because the bigger the opportunity, this isn't just for sports. The bigger the opportunity, the more pain you are going to have to learn how to endure. Whether that's solving bigger problems or whether that's dealing with more people or whether that's just having the sheer amount of decisions that are coming at you in a day. So, in training camp, they literally line up and hit each other again and again full force because they practice getting knocked down. They practice how to take a hit. They practice fumbling the ball. They practice failing. They practice getting sacked and pushed back 10 yards. You guys, they do this so that when it's game time, the opportunity of their lives, they're not shocked by the pain. They're not surprised by the push back. they are ready for it. They actually start getting excited about it because they know how to handle it. In fact, if they're good, they've learned out how to handle it so much more that they're excited because maybe they feel and they believe that their opponent has a different relationship with pain. And if they have a better one, they're going to be the people who are ready for it. And here's the key. All opportunities come with these tackles, you guys. Every opportunity comes with pain and the push back. And it's not the punishment. It's actually the pathway. So, your training camp is life and life is already handing you the challenges. But the problem is you're treating them like they're negative instead of seeing them as your actual reps to get stronger because the bigger the challenges you solve, the more money you make. The faster you solve those challenges, the faster you'll make money. So, chasing happiness and avoiding pain is what is actually making us miserable. And the people who succeed aren't running from the pain, they're actually using it. It's the reps that are making them stronger. They've redefined pain as a training ground and not punishment. So my question to you is, are you going to wait until pain catches you offguard? Or are you going to have the audacity to pull it forward and let it drive you right now? I really pray that you start to make a different relationship with pain and fear and understand that it's just a feeling. It's just your nervous system freaking out because you're not used to it. You're used to running the other direction. And what we want to do is we want to start going head first. We literally want to tackle it and know that these tackles are here for us because life's biggest opportunities are going to come with them. And are you going to be ready for them or are you going to be taken off guard by them? You guys, I'm so grateful for you. We just did our Audacity Challenge call today and it was absolutely amazing. We did our second one. I have two things that I want to share with you. You can still join the Audacity Challenge if you have not. It's totally free. It is four calls. We've done two so far. We have two left. And it's a bunch of audacious, freaking incredible women who are actually doing big things in their life right now on these calls. And big things is defined by you. You know, don't bench yourself before the game even begins just by what I'm saying. If you're ready to start taking action, all you have to do is DM me the word Audacity or drop the word Audacity on any of my Instagram posts at Loriehearter. And also, we are going into our last week for the VIP weekend early bird discount where it is two days at my actual home. Like I'm literally having you in my house sitting at my dining room table with 10 other entrepreneurs and you get to come on this podcast in my podcast studio and you get a segment on the show to talk about your business. You get those reels. You get to use that on your pitch sheet and say that you are on a top 25 entrepreneurial podcast, Earn Your Happy and the Chris Harter Show. You get to use that to pitch yourself. And I will say that someone already from the last weekend has used that to get on a very large show and they got approved or invited because they saw that they were on the earn your happy show. So you guys, you absolutely can use that time on the podcast and use that to get on bigger things and utilize that for so many other things. Maybe it's stages, maybe it's just credibility. and also the two days of masterminding with 10 other entrepreneurs who are doing big things. And I'm telling you, if you don't have a mentor, if you're not investing in yourself and your business with someone who has done it before, like I literally have been doing this for 15 years. And can you imagine 10 other businesses plus my husband who's one of the best strategists I think in the world, along with Nick Carter, my brother-in-law, who does all of our backend, all of our funnels, all of our setup. We're all with you in this room for two days straight solving your business problems. We have a client from the last one named Leah Garvin who literally said this was the best thing that she has done for her business all year long that has moved her business forward in such a massive way. And you guys, her business is absolutely incredible. It's exploding. And this is your opportunity to get not only in the room, but at our house to see how we work, how we live, what we would do if we had your business. Like there is no holding back on getting you to move the needle forward. So all you have to do is go to chrishearter.me/weend. It's below in the show notes, you guys. That's all you have to do. Go below and click in the show notes. Otherwise, you can also DM me VIP weekend all one word and we're going to send you all the info on that. It is in October. It is coming up and you could completely change the trajectory of your business. I have not met someone who does not invest in themselves and in their business who is going fast and is getting to where they want to go because it is the shortcut. It's the answers to the test that you are investing in. You are literally paying not that much for 15 years of experience in business from me and from my husband and these 10 other entrepreneurs. So go and check it out and until next time everyone earn your happy