 why have a lot of us had transformations in our lives? Because there's probably a moment in your life you're like, I have no choice. Mm-hmm, right? Multiple. It's so real to both of us that we're like, oh no, that could happen again. If my pipeline is not always getting full somehow, I'm anxious, and I don't think that's a bad thing. If you use fear, it can propel you forward. That's what I choose to do. I go, I have no choice. I will continue to build momentum, because the worst thing when you've lost it all is you've lost it all and you have no momentum on top of that. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. real when you're in it and then all of a sudden you do get around expanders like yourself and it just blows the roof off. It's like you make it so possible for people. So I'm so excited about your tour and what you're about to do because that's going to be what happens over and over is because in your body it's so real and to you it's so simple because you've done it so many times and to everybody listening like it doesn't take some massive like college or you know it doesn't even sometimes it doesn't even take like a year or a month sometimes it can be as little as being in your energy. I think of that even with Gary Vee sometimes I listen to one Gary Vee podcast and I'm like I'm gonna fucking do everything. Yeah, 100% It just like blows the lid off and so I'm excited for you that you are taking that 120 days to just go impact in person. I've done weird things like that before and I just know that like and I have a good buddy of mine that has a rule in his life. He has 10 kids married at age 20 his wife and him she's 18 they had to move their wedding date back they realized that she wasn't going to be 18. Oh, wow. On the wedding date they're oh shit we should move the wedding back so you're 18. Probably. Just a dedicated family guy but his number one thing I took I took from him is he says I move every three years to reinvent myself. Wow. As long as I've known him for 15 years he's done it. He goes all right all 10 kids and me and the wife we're moving to a completely different state to a place we don't know anybody we go like they're in Nashville or Knoxville, Tennessee now they just bought a 40 acre farm and they'll be there for three years and then they'll go all right everything we built we're going somewhere else and they go build something else somewhere else but they're building relationships they're getting out of their comfort zone they're getting out and so he says my job is to make my children's comfort zone feel like their comfort zone should be discomfort if that makes sense totally because so many people are watching this right now that well I want to do this but like I'm afraid of this I'm afraid of that I don't want to disrupt the status quo. Guys there's somebody watching this podcast right now that needs to leave their spouse there's somebody here that needs to leave their boyfriend or their girlfriend there's somebody here that needs to abandon some of your friends and go find new friends there's somebody here that needs to invest in themselves get into a mastermind how do people get to your mastermind by the way? Chris hearted out me forward slash mastermind. Okay cool so there's somebody here that needs to get around expanders like what Laurie said and you're gonna have a hard time with that because you're amygdala look up the amygdala holy crap it's like the greatest thing if you understand the stupid little almond shaped part of your brain is controlling every activity you do and the fear that you have on a daily basis it's all controlled by your amygdala it wants to keep you comfortable and it wants to save you from exerting energy there's somebody watching and they're like well that sounds like work yeah so does living a shitty life yep you know it sounds like a lot of work to me I don't want to have anything to do with that. I want to point out you're not saying this from theory you're not preaching from a pedestal you've gone as far as you left your first wife because she didn't support the dreams of entrepreneurship would you unpack that for us? Yeah um Mormon guy who didn't have sex until he was married that's a big deal for a dude I just want to point out that was a big sacrifice. Talk about it. I did not it's like I felt like I'd make out with a girl in high school and I thought I was gonna go to the devil's for straight and she got saved by a panel about it. I understand. Right so I like that's where I came from so I get married you know get married in the Mormon temple marry a good Mormon girl what do Mormons what are we known for get married early we have kids fast right I come from a family of 12 kids and get married married early and have kids early so I love being a Mormon I still am a Mormon so I just think a lot of Mormons suck so and so does the culture around a lot of religion because it gets everybody really stuck but I figured out how to be Mormon without being in the crap so we get married we're together for four years and then I say I want to have kids and she's like well maybe next year this turns into a thing and then long story short we go to a therapist therapist goes she loves you but she truly doesn't ever want to have kids I'm like okay what else do I not know about you yeah and then she tells me I don't want you to be an entrepreneur wow and like why she's like because I just never know when we're gonna have money like we've always had money what are you talking about yeah but what if one day we don't have money this became a thing so I quit my business and I went and applied for a job at go daddy you were making decent money at the business right like 300 400 grand take home okay yeah yeah it's great I was 24 that's huge for that yeah this is 20 years ago so like that's like that's like that's like that is ballin out I was ballin out of two cars dude holy shit yeah so I think hard workers don't have a problem making money I've never had a problem making money I've always figured out like you apply yourself you're gonna make money especially in today's day and age like there's just so few people actually want to work but anyway so I go and I go through the two week orientation at go daddy right down here in Tempe and I went to go daddy because I had a friend that was in their executive account so it was making like half a million dollars I go okay well that sounds like a job I don't need a college to agree for and like I could talk to really cool companies and I could maybe learn how to do things myself and you know this would be before Bob Parsons sold the company and so I go there two week orientation and then they walk me to my desk on day one and I look down at the cubicle and it might as well been the depths of hell like I look at this desk and I said I'm not sitting down there I know this is not happening you could see the chair the little office chair had been used by 50 people before me a revolving door of sales people that are just going through all the farts that have been like all the bullshit and I was like no so I walked out of go daddy the day on day one of my job I call my my ex-wife now and I said if this is the person you want me to be you married the wrong person can't be fart chair pace nope yeah I'm not sitting on fart chair so and a lot of other things too I just I'm not going to be told what to do I'm just I was either I don't know if I was born you're unemployable I'm unemployed a lot of us are you guys are on yep yep so I um I made a decision and I ripped off the band aid got divorced and then met my wife a year later which is awesome amazing and I met a woman I met a woman for you met out there when you guys are still dating find a freaking woman who is married to an entrepreneur she will understand the lifestyle and it's normal for her like my daughters we do not say the word job in our house wow I do not want my daughter's even knowing what a job is I do not want my daughter's marrying a guy that has a job I want my daughter daughter's marrying a guy who creates jobs and so I we talk about what does dad do for a living dad creates jobs so when they grow up my daughters like we are married I'm marrying a dude that creates things now it doesn't have to be jobs but I want to marry a guy that creates things and makes value you know provides value to the marketplace rather than being told what to do every single day so and ironically here we are in labor day the day that is like a day off and working out of bad asses right here working here with you in the studio and here we are working ran and Danny yeah you guys are in the same mindset as I am so I am allergic to it I don't I don't want to be around people I here's the problem I am so I I'm like I absorb everybody's energy I'm an empath and if your energy is negative I find myself being a dick four minutes later what happened because I am not myself I know myself is I am nothing but a sponge I will sponge my environment I will sponge thoughts from other people and sadly that is just the way maybe it's just me but I feel like that's every human being as well you brought up your kids yeah and they're being raised watching you be wildly successful if they couldn't inherit any of your business and if they couldn't inherit any of your money what is one belief system that you would want them to inherit from you okay notice where there's a missing piece of value in the environment you're in and provide that value so for example my son Asher he at age 15 I pushed entrepreneurship on him and I don't know if he's not ready for it or it's just not him but I push it on him he bought three rental properties guess what he's the only friend of his that doesn't have to work a job he gets 1800 bucks comes in every single month from his rentals and he's never had to work which is awesome I gave that to him so at age 16 I told him you're not going to have a job like your friends but you need to do something I'm going to tell you you need to go become a pilot because I think that's a skill that would be would give you confidence you feel great it's going to be so uncomfortable learning about you know the tachometer and the this and the barometer blah blah blah blah all the things when you find something that's cooler than that I will let you replace being a pilot but as of right now you need to stay as being a pilot cool he goes and gets his license he's in love with it he then is like well what do I do now I go keep growing go get new certifications but I now want you to go get a job at a mechanic a pilot like an airplane mechanic sure so he has the thing that he's learned a long time his boss calls me up he goes I don't know what is up with your kid I was like oh shit what did he do he's a good kid yeah I go oh what what's going on he goes he's the only guy that does not sit down he notices things in the shop that need to be done that my crew have been here 15 years have not thought to do he reorganized these things he came over here and cleaned this he noticed the bathroom was dirty he cleaned the bathroom it's not even on his job list they go because I taught my kids that if they have it if they need a job list they should be shot in the leg and so my son is practicing exactly what that thought is which is what is the market missing what is the value you can bring to the market and just bring it don't ask for permission and so I was with him this morning I go how's the job and he goes he goes I think I could own one of these companies one day because he's paying attention to like what's missing who isn't doing doing their job where can I provide value to that person and also don't be a brown nose like go to the guys that are falling behind their job and go hey I want to learn how to do what you're doing can I help with your role after hours and so he's become friends with all the other mechanics as well simultaneously so just you know politicking and stuff that's all I love that I feel like you know there's that's what my dad did for me truly and I every job I had it was like I did I did the craziest things like I would move everything in the back room and scrub the floors and they'd be like what are you doing like it was dirty yes it's my and it is paid off so much I can't even tell you because I have gone from job to job didn't graduate didn't get a high school diploma how am I where I'm at it's truly because I was the most valuable person at every single job yeah I didn't wait like is education really that important like formal education right I think being around the right people right environments your dad obviously being a mentor of yours and then applying yourself and actually just doing the thing and noticing stuff that other people don't like you're in the point 0001 percentile yeah of people on the planet like it's impossible for you not to be successful he was you know looking back it's all the things that I really resented him for though I'm sure your kids have moments of resenting you which is great because you're forcing them to do things they wouldn't naturally do and I'm so grateful for like all of the like the hard work and all of those moments how are you like outside of obviously helping your kids you know create these experiences for themselves you know you have a great life and your kids probably have a really great life how do you recreate challenges for them struggle I haven't quite figured that out because like here's the thing is you get to a point where you have money you know probably like 15 years ago you get to a point where you have enough money that you're like okay we fly first class we drive the cars we want to drive we do the things and we're not eating McDonald's like my dad ate McDonald's every meal for us because it was affordable for like 15 kids right we're like well mom and dad want to have no boo so I guess you kids are also having no boo so I haven't quite figured that out yet one thing I just know that my kids go with me to our events my kids meet all the other kids um Asher for example this is interesting so Asher had experiences that he's 17 now he had his he had experiences in my real estate industry or business that I think the girls will never have I used to go on a lot of appointments right like people were being foreclosure and I'd go to their house and I'd sit in their living room and they stopped paying their power bill months ago and so it's 140 freaking degrees in their house no fan no nothing Asher I remember when he was eight years old he would go on appointments with me two three times a week and I would ask him why did we not buy that house well I think that leaves him denial I think this is happening like he just got to a point where he'd been enough appointments sure enough exposure what the opposite side of you know wealth looked like so for my my daughter's one thing that we do is we do this really fun thing where we go save a hundred families in um I'll make it simple for people Pakistan we go to Pakistan do you just know how many people are in slavery right now no oh my gosh this is the weirdest thing if you ever get a chance to look this up 23 million people are currently in slavery right now what at brick kilns across the globe what okay so what happens is these people that are in just third world countries 23 million people are in actual slavery and they're in slavery over a $500 bill that their grandfather incurred like 40 years ago and what they do is they work for about a dollar a day making bricks for brick kiln the brick kiln is also simultaneously banks in these cities all over the world and so what happens is you go to the brick kiln and you go you're the richest thing in in town I need a $500 thing paid for my daughter needed a such-and-such surgery and I have no money for it no problem just work at the brick kiln you have to make 1500 bricks a day and I'll give you two dollars one dollar goes towards the materials one dollar goes towards your debt well the problem is now they don't have money to survive so they just take that dollar to survive on right so we go there and we'll take our family and we'll go free a hundred families we'll we'll pay off their $500 debt build them the $3,500 house and then give them like a $1,500 like tool setup that they can go do and build their own business and they go from making two dollars a day to seven dollars a day and my kids watch this in person and they are so much more thankful they see the other side and of course we're at homeless shelters and stuff like that I don't know that I want to take my kids through what my parents made us go through like yeah the lawn and doing all the things like it worked for you and me I don't know I gotta read but there could be a different way if you find a suggestion please text me we do know a lot of kids who were raised very much like your kids are being raised and they're incredible like I think there's a lot of stations are being had there's multiple paths you know there's multiple I think one thing about parents like when we were all growing up I don't think they were as equipped as we all are today to like educate and have these conversations like what you're saying Chris is like I can have that conversation like my dad never talked to me about money yeah my mom never talked to me it was taboo and they're still my parents are still to this day watching their thermometer or their thermostat like who turned the air conditioning down to 70 degrees oh my gosh it's like a scene in the house I'm like I will give you $100 so every time I come over here I can turn the AC down to 76 degrees like what the freak it's water in our house to you know my parents also and like leave the shower on I want to shift gears for a minute with this after that you're an absolute legend as a person right thank you but people need to know as a business individual you're an absolute legend as well and I know you're known for creative financing and finding properties with zero down but if I came to you and I said hey paste you know I've got an extra hundred grand or 200 grand and I really want to get into this does that accelerate it where would you tell me to put that money or is it really go acquire these things zero down okay so if you had a hundred or two hundred thousand dollars and you have zero experience you don't know how to find the deal manage the deal you don't know how to exit the deal meaning like you know we bought an RV park a couple months ago that we are renovating cleaning it up putting a cell tower there we're adding value and two years I'll sell it for double if you don't know how to do all of those things putting a hundred or two hundred thousand dollars into real estate the number one way I would do that is find an operator that you admire okay so for me that would be like Ken McElroy freaking love Ken McElroy's here in the valley he also manages all of rich all of Robert Kiyosaki's assets like he's the guy that made Robert Kiyosaki actually credible Robert Kiyosaki's a little bit of a lunatic shout out Robert I love you but you are lunatic the guy who made him not such a crazy lunatic is Ken McElroy so I would find an operator like that that's buying and building big multifamily deals and go I want to just invest with you typically your investment's going to give you somewhere around a 20% return somewhere in that realm but you're going to get educated on what that operator is doing so now not only do I get the 20% return but I get to get educated on that asset type and I get to ask questions and be part of the their circumference and then I can maybe one day be an operator on my own yes being the operator you make all you make all the money so like for example here's the difference I have a loan I have a business that we do like business loans and my average loan will give me a 40% return in like eight months okay okay so I have a 500,000 dollar loan this is like factoring or yeah it's factoring yeah that's a great way of saying it yeah but we do some factoring some other things as well so a lot of bridge financing so somebody goes I'm buying a business and I need 500,000 the business is already cash flowing and it's it's good but I my lender won't be able to close for eight months perfect I'll bridge that gap right so I'll do a lot of bridge financing as well I'll finance that purchase tomorrow 550,000 and in eight months I'll get a return of my 550 plus I'll make like 280,000 on that loan well where did I get that money from somebody who said Pace I have money I want to invest but I don't know what to do with it they give me their money I give them a 10% return and I go make 40 50 60% with their money so operators make the majority of the money so find an operator that you like and is willing to teach you what they're doing give them a couple hundred grand if you gave somebody a couple hundred grand they're going to be so excited they'll take you to dinner okay so I would find an operator you really like and just give it to them we make way more money than stock market yep a lot of times we make more money than bitcoin like a multi-family investment is not going to make you as much as bitcoin I think bitcoin's been going like 30% year over year but like business lending we're making 50 60% year over year so go find people that are doing what I'm doing invest your money with them if you don't want to learn how to do what I do which is not easy what I do is not easy it requires skills to get in people's living rooms it requires negotiations it requires follow-up consistency which is the number one human like problem consistency but I love that question a lot of people ask me I have a hundred grand what should I do with it I go burn it learn how to buy real estate with no money give it to your mom I don't care what you do with the hundred grand don't use your own money but to answer your question specifically give it to somebody you trust that will teach you how to be an operator it's a great answer how has your investment shifted especially with AI like what are you not investing in anymore what are you going for right now like what are you great question okay so number one I just sold the company today I'm getting out of it like today today today today wow yeah thank you I'd like to hear the congrats but the reality is I should have sold it five years ago for 10 times more money so I had an offer on the table it's the company is a virtual assistant company I have in the Philippines about 300 employees and I had an offer five years ago for 10 million dollars and I was like 10 million dollars kiss my ass I could make this thing A-50 million dollar company easy well I turned it out and same amount of employees same revenue completely different multiple why because they're humans okay so the name I won't tell you the name of the company because I just sold it today we're in escrow but that company I just sold it for a million dollars nothing has changed in those five years except for AI okay so what is attacked to that company there's another company and there's 10 of them now that come out every single week but the company that really hurt us was a company called prop.AI prop.AI is an AI cold collar it's a thousand dollars a month and it will cold call all your leads so real estate um medical billing I don't give a shit what it is and it is so effing good yeah that you're like the Philippines are not going to have any money no because the Philippines is like 30% of their GDP comes down to customer support and like cold call centers yep so I'm staying away from anything that can be disrupted by AI and um I'm doubling down on things that are affordable housing because I believe and this is a scary thing you know I feel like people have a brand like you guys people like me we've put a moat around ourselves because people know who we are people will choose to do business with us so a lot of people let's say I'm a lender as well well all the lending companies that don't have a brand in five years everybody in the audience even though there will be less business going on people will come to me because they know me I've built a moat around around myself but as far as holding real estate I've gone away from anything luxury I'm going away from anything Airbnb I used to have 75 Airbnb's I have a zero now I just got rid of my last Airbnb why is that for the audience because what happens when the economy shifts is people stop vacationing and when they do vacation they go to more economic choices like Motel 6 and other things like that or you know Hyatt Place or whatever good margins won't be there for Airbnb and more they're not there anymore and you already see Airbnb numbers are down 30% the last 18 months it's going to get worse and worse and worse so where should you what should you buy co-living smart single family houses we have a housing demand in fact tomorrow I think Trump is going to announce a housing emergency emergency in the country wow it's going to be a massive thing what's he going to do he's going to get rid of a lot of regulation that we have as investors what's a what's a piece of regulation that's specific in Arizona okay in California the last couple years what they've done is they made it so anybody that has a backyard can add an ADU in your backyard right essentially doubling how many houses or double density yeah yeah there you go guess what they did in Phoenix just recently in six months ago they made it any house that is within two miles of downtown of Phoenix can do the same thing that LA is doing which is add an ADU with no zoning change okay well there goes regulation so if you're one of those NIMBY's not in my backyard yep if you're a NIMBY and you're like I don't want that happening in my backyard well you better get the hell out of the big metros because things are going to change massively and quickly very quickly Trump comes in and says national emergency on housing it gets rid of regulation it also I think was what's going to happen is I think he's going to start selling some of the state-owned land that we all own as Americans and I think he's going to sell it off and say we're going to sell this at pennies on the dollar and we're going to go create new cities and new affordable housing plans and all sorts of crazy things so what am I investing in I'm investing in anything that somebody can rent a room or a house for under a thousand dollars because I think what's going to happen this is scary to even say yeah but I need to know yes I think that in five okay do you guys know the percentage of people in America that rely on government assistance right now no take a guess 15 percent it's 31 or 32 wow so every third of America third of America so every three people you meet in your life rely on government assistance if they didn't have it they couldn't survive rely on it okay and I think seven years I think it's going to be closer to 80 percent what are people going to do like literally think about what that people are like oh no more jobs are going to be created bridge that gap by the way for those listening saying how that's impossible bridge that gap okay so let's let's go on just one job that's going to be decimated um how many people drive uber and lift in the united states arms it's a little over three million people okay full-time it's a full-time income is three million people uber and lift wemo and tesla tesla taxi yep and there's three other companies that nobody ever talks about as well that they're all making a surge as well will does not take all those jobs yeah because they're autonomous there's no driver in it what's crazy is people are choosing to take a waymo over an uber right now even though way most twice as expensive why because i don't have to talk to anybody and honestly it's safer for women yes my personal opinion it's creepy i don't and i want to scroll through instagram and look at what i want to look at without you judging me i don't want a human being around so this is just in an uber when we went to the airport to come here and the guys like here take my business card and here is my instagram i'm like i don't want that experience yeah we're going to do that and guess what they're doing in starbucks right now in korea they've already replaced three stores in korea are fully autonomous starbucks they're proving it in korea tech is just a little bit better over there they'll start doing it here we have a sweet green right by us fully autonomous and i hate even saying this my salad is perfect every time yeah have you gone to starbucks okay and people at starbucks give me some attitude and some bullshit which is okay you you're entitled to have a bad day but i go through drive through and i go hey i want to talk to the nilabee and frappuccino great would you like whipped cream on that yeah sure that sounds great cool next day i come back through and i'm thinking i'm doing you a favor i'm going to go the nilabee and frappuccino with the whipped cream so you don't have to ask me so i say that the second day through and they go sir it comes with whipped cream it's part of the ingredients shit okay can i talk to a robot please yeah because i'm sorry from a former barista i feel ashamed but it's a hard job yes because you deal with you know 300 different personality types on a daily basis right it's really really hard so i think those are gone i think the one that's going to be the scariest one are people that are working any sort of trucking or transportation there's seven and a half million people that work in that logistics and trucking those are gone you got seven years okay max oh what about roofing companies guys look up rufus r u f us there's already robot replacing roofs last year or i'm sorry not last year last week first autonomous fully autonomous no doctor help no nurse help open heart surgery was performed last wednesday fully by a robot yep okay volunteered for that i don't know but there's people like people that are signed up for to go to mars already right so and white color so people think oh white color jobs are not at all account's gone AI is going to be a better account right um tax advisers travel agencies tax advisors agencies you recently fired an agency not because they did a bad job because you could save 10 grand a month for your company by using chat gpt i just started doing all my emails and it was better people have no idea what's coming and how fast this wave is yeah it's fast and i think the biggest problem will be the adoption of it so there's a lot of people like i live in montana half the year and that valley that i live in half that valley has never even heard of chat to bt i'm not exactly wow so there's going to be adoption issues in certain parts of the country but if you're in a big metro like top 50 metro like chicago la phoenix houston whatever you you will not recognize like the world in three to five years so what will happen well people are going to go they're going to be they're going to go to the trades we don't need more tradesmen that's a bullshit lie that's being told to you i'm hearing that a lot is that not true there's no shortage no no there's no shortage like have you ever heard somebody go no i'm as a roofer i'm sorry i can't do your job that's a good point no now what will happen is what they should be saying is it's the only thing that will like uh work for the next seven to ten years but what's happening is you look at the robots that are already being being done in casagrand right now you guys might not know this  you aren't here full-time, but Cassegrain did a full neighborhood 3B printed with concrete, with plumbing and electrical also printed into the house. And the plumbing, as it was printing the house. Yup, you're right, we need more electricians and more plumber, you guys know we don't. And when you already have, like, you guys know who Boston Dynamics is? Yeah, I do. Holy shit. Yup. Like their robot can do anything. All ready. So we go, oh, nurses are going to be safe. I like nurses. They're nice. We like nurses. Boston Dynamics just came out three months ago with a nurse that does the job of a nurse twice as well. Remember, every patient's name does all sorts of great things, has not missed a beat. It's already being deployed in Boston. I'm sorry. Y'all are going to be replaced. And for a robot that costs $60,000 versus a nurse that costs $80,000 to $90,000 a year plus benefits, plus management, plus training, plus this, that, and the other. And you want to work overtime. A robot is a one-time investment of $60,000. Where are y'all going to go? And so the way I look at it is, oh, my gosh. I scare your audience real fast. That could go for it. I'm so sorry. No. We're here for reality. OK, cool. So I had a friend. I had a friend named Marshall Brain. Marshall Brain is the guy who invented the TV show, How Stuff Works. OK, you guys have heard of this? Yep, totally. He shows, he sells this to Discovery Channel for $250 million a couple years back. And he's a professor. And he loves to teach. And he wrote these amazing books. Go to MarshallBrain.com. Insane. He wrote a book called The Second Intelligent Species, How Human Beings Will Be As Replaceable as a Cockroach in 15 Years. Dang. Great book. You'll Cry by Chapter 1. So he writes that book. He writes another book called Mana. A couple of really great books about the future and what's going to actually happen. Well, I go to Marshall back in, like, I think August of last I go, Marshall, I want you to come and talk to my community. I need you to scare the shit out of them because they need to take more action. They need to accumulate more rental units that the government's going to pay for. If you're in real estate and you're focusing on anything that the government cannot pay for, you're going to be in a world of hurt in five, seven years. So Marshall's like, yes, let's do it. No problem. He kept kicking the can down the road, kept kicking the can down the road. Well, I then lose contact with him for like two months. I don't know what the heck is going on. And then I get a letter on my house. And it was a suicide letter. He killed himself. Why? Because he's so hyper in tune with what's going on. And he knows what's happening. He's like, I don't know why I'm even here. Now, he also lost his purpose. That was a big part he talked about a lot. He lost his purpose once he sold that company. Human beings need a purpose. Yes. And so job loss is not just, there's people watching this that might go, well, it's going to be a euphoria where nobody worries about money. OK, but what about your purpose? Purpose. And being religious, that's a huge conversation is like what happens when people don't have purpose. Yeah, like think about what your dad put you through. And like the work ethic that you acquired and those bits of evidence that your brain absorbed, that you can do hard things. People think that once you're rich, that you stop working? No, every single person I know that's wildly wealthy, like what I call post-economic. Wants to keep working. They keep working because you need purpose. You need something to get up for every single day. And why accumulate all these skills, relationships, and resources if you're not going to utilize them and go and do something more? It's not even about money. It's about the journey of self-discovery. Oh, I'm capable of that? Dang, I did that? Wow, I wonder what else I'm capable of and that becomes this fun addiction. Or even helping people, like what you guys are doing with masterminds and educating people, you get a helper's high when somebody has a transformation. And they go, you changed my life. I want to stay in the subject so that we can get people prepared. Tell them what UBI is. UBI, oh my God. And tell them like you kept mentioning government housing. If you're going to buy real estate, make sure it's something that government housing would pay for, it ties into UBI. Tied this together for them. Okay, so fast forward in the future. What's the government going to do? Well, the government created the nine to five system a year, a long time ago. They created a nine to five system, not to manipulate us, but to handle us. Going, we don't know what to do with all these people. This country is growing so fast. What do we do with all these people? And the country created the nine to five, right? Henry Ford and all these other people go, let's create manufacturing lines. Let's give them a nine to five schedule with weekends off and this and the other. That was invented just in the last like 300 years it was never a thing before that. We were actually entrepreneurs have been with you. You had a farm, you were a shoe cobbler. It was like everybody owns something. Nobody really worked for anybody. You were a farmer, right? And it was like 75% of the whole world's population were farmers. Now it's less than 7% of these robots do all of that. Oh my gosh, you should see the things robots are doing in farms. Anyway, so now the government has to create a new system and that new system to adapt to what's going on is going to be like, let's ask this question before I tell you what UBI is. Do you think that we are going to decouple 31% of the American public from relying on government assistance? Is that going to be a thing? Like once they're on it, are you going to convince them to get off of it? No, no, you're on the tee. You're staying on the tee. Sorry for Boo reference. We love Boo reference. Yeah, so universal basic income is what UBI stands for. Texas has already started deploying it. Other states are starting to deploy it as well saying we don't know how to keep people in these houses. And so what the government is doing, it's like an allowance. Yep, they're giving you monthly stipend. Okay, the average in Texas right now is like 1,400 bucks a month and it's going to get to like $3,000 a month. Where does that money come from? Well, right now they're going to continue to print it. It's tax dollars. People like me that produce tax, like in Texas, I probably spend $500,000 a year in property taxes. That goes to the local government. The local government then pays out UBI to people, a percentage. And so it will be paid for for a couple of years out of state and local taxes, but it will be so significant at some point that the federal government will have to kick in and they'll have to turn the printing machine on at an even higher level. Now I am optimistic. I think in 15, 20 years, I think we reach a critical mass where nobody really has to work. And I think the government or whatever it may be, I think that robots and farming and all sorts of things will basically get to a point where it's nearly free. And we'll all get some sort of basic stipend. And less than 10% of the population will actually have to work or want to work like all of us. But 90% of people will basically live, I'm not exaggerating when I say 90%. In 20 years, guys, 90% of people will not have a job. And the growing pain will be this time in between. Yes, there's going to be a 10 year dystopia. 10 years of like, holy shit, we're in the worst recession of our lives. We don't know what we're going to do. People like me, how do I survive? Well, I'll give you one example. I have 160 unit multifamily deal in Tucson, Arizona. Not one person in that 161 units that I own has a job. They all live on pension, government pension, government assistance, Section 8, one of those three things, 100% of my tenants do not need a job to pay their rent. So I'm buying assets like that that I don't have to worry about it. So look, I'm a greedy son of a bitch. When you realize that you need money to help people and you need money to expand, you will also be somewhat, I shouldn't say greedy. I know how to use resources better than the government. You understand the importance of accumulation. Yes. And if I want to hire people, I need money. If I want to go do cool things, like a big tour and help people out, I got to have money. I can't just do that stuff for free. And I don't want to stay in my house playing video games all day long, which I think most people are going to be doing. I love to leave people better than we found them. So teach them if they're scared now, I have to hear in all this, what should they be doing tomorrow so that they have a job or an investment or a cash flow opportunity that allows them to end up on the good side of this dystopia that we're going to go through as opposed to the suffering side. Okay, cool. So I would tell you, the average income in America, average household income in America is like $60,000 between two people. Okay, well, I can replace that with one RV park, with one mobile home park, with one apartment building. Those sound scary and big and management. And oh my gosh, how do I do that? Go watch my YouTube channel, I teach it all for free. But I could also go, all right, the average co-living property is $2,000 a month net. So that's what, $24,000 a year. Most families, if you just had three rentals that were co-living, you literally never have to worry about working ever again. How do I go get those co-living? Couple of good websites to go to that are free and I don't get paid for and I don't own them. A great website, creativelisting.com. You can go on creativelisting.com, take over somebody else's mortgage at like 2% or 3%, fill the other rooms with tenants from Pad Split. You put them on Pad Split, Pad Split fills the tenants, they screen the tenants, Pad Split collects the money, pays you all the money that's left out over, they manage the house and you make $2,000 a month. That's the basics of it. I also have a playlist on my YouTube channel, it's like nine hours long, you can go watch that. It can literally, like a homeless lady, Maddie met me 90 days ago, already owns one. She chose to live in it, but her next one, she'll get probably in the next two or three weeks and then the next one, another probably three months after that and in less than six months, a homeless lady will have a portfolio that replaced the average income of a family in America. Pretty simple. And that kind of brings us full circle to put a bow on this thing. What you did with Maddie and what you're about to do on this 109 city tour is really a demonstration to everybody right now listening that might be freaked out about what's coming. That everyone listening can do this. There's nobody that doesn't have enough time, even though I know you're working two, three jobs. There's nobody that doesn't have enough money because you can do it with no money down. And you've proven this, not just to the people that can afford a $10,000 course, you've proven this now to the Maddies of the world. And you're about to show another hundred and some examples that anybody can do this. So this doesn't have to be doom and gloom. If you're willing to roll up your sleeves, watch the free YouTubes for crying out loud, put some elbow grease in and do the damn work. Yeah, it's interesting. Last couple of things I'll say. I listened to a podcast you did recently. I was out on a run, this was probably a week ago. And it was talking about how your brother has ran 3,000 days in a row. That's the most insane shit I've ever heard. Pure discipline. People don't understand what it takes to run 10 days in a row. Let alone two, bro. I'm painful from day one, I'm going into day two running with pain. I don't even get my body any time to, he's on day 3,000. And he's like, well, we're on vacation. And I guess I just gotta wake up at 4.45. Everybody else on the planet is like, well, I'm on vacation. Right, it does require effort and it requires a mindset that you're gonna go get it done. So that's number one, you are right. You might have a time issue, but you still have to make that work, right? Just like what your podcast said, it was such a great podcast. Number two, here's why I think fear is one of the greatest things on the planet. Okay, Harvard Study talked about how they were trying to figure out the best rat poison flavor on the planet. Interesting. They're like, how do we make this rat poison the most flavorful thing? Delicious to rats. To make the rat run through the maze as fast as possible. So they tried like 2,500 different recipes. And they ultimately found that the thing that made the rat go through the maze the fastest was like a thing between syrup, honey, and some rotten like cabbage. Okay, just to give you the punchline. Cause we were like, wait, what is it? Yeah, like is it bacon? And now it's sold in stores, right? This is how they come up with these things, right? Tomcat, I think was the name of the company. You go to like Home Depot, you go to Tomcat, like on the aisle, you'll see that came from a Harvard study is to figure out what do they put as a scent in these, these paints. Okay, well, they had the whole setup, right? And they'd been spending all this time together. And one of these scientists had this idea. He goes, let's try something crazy. I got a crazy idea. I want to see if I can make these mice run even faster. These rats run faster. And what his idea was, let's take the scent of a cat and let's pump it into the maze. And let's see what happens to your fear. They pumped the scent of the cat in the middle of the maze and it just, you know, went through the whole maze and it hits the rat. And what did the rat do? The rat froze in place. Why? Because the fear was in front of them. The cats that way, I'm staying here. And then the scientists go, oh, this is simple. Let's put the scent of the cat behind the rat. And let's see what happens. So the rat standing in the maze in the starting position, the scent of the cat comes up behind the rat and he goes, holy shit, there's a cat back there. And then all of a sudden, literally it was a three, they tried 2,500 scents, flavors, everything else. The fear of the cat made that rat run three times as fast as any combination of food ever did. So why do I say this? I say this because guys, if you use fear, it can propel you full. That's what I choose to do. I go, I have no choice. And why have a lot of us had transformations in our lives? Because there was probably a moment in your life, you're like, I have no choice. Yeah, right? Multiple. Okay, so that is, you got to look at yourself. If you're taking notes, I would write down, I have no choice. I have to go and do something to put a moat around me and my family. And what's happening in the future is the greatest gift on the planet. I had this theory the other day, I said, I think God invented AI and robotics because he's sick and tired of people saying, please God, please make my life better. And then those people not taking any action, right? Heaven helps those people that help themselves. I think God is like, you know what? I think I'm gonna put the fear behind you and I'm gonna make you so afraid of the future that you actually finally go and do the thing you pray to me about every single night. And so I hope that you guys go figure that out because you really don't have any other choice. That's great. That's great. I mean, that's for sure. When people listen to you and I, that's 100% why we've done anything is because we've lost to avoid pain. To avoid pain. And it's such, it's so real to both of us that we're like, oh no, that could happen again. It gets so real. That is a good point. It motivates us. Going back to what you said a little bit earlier, like people want to keep working because they don't want, they don't want to have purpose. I think that's probably 90% of it, but there's that 10% of you that says, I could lose this all over again if I stop. And that fear of, oh my gosh, like I was at dinner with Dean Graziosi a couple months ago and I go, bro, like you're 55. You've hit the top of the world. You're CEO of multiple Tony Robbins companies. You're building a $30 million home in Paradise Valley. You've made it. And he goes, no, I've lost it all before. I know exactly what it feels like and I could lose it next week. I will not stop. I will continue to build momentum because the worst thing when you've lost it all is you've lost it all and you have no momentum on top of that. Like this is part of that same thing to me. Liquid nine figures, afraid it could go away tomorrow. Yeah. If my pipeline is not always getting full somehow, I'm anxious and I don't think that's a bad thing. I also think we're always choosing between, you know, one form of pain or another. We were just listening to a podcast. He was talking about like the rule of thirds, like a third of the time in your life, you're gonna feel great. Third of the time you're gonna feel mint and a third of the time you're gonna feel terrible. And I'm like, if we all feel that way, you might as well feel that way, building something. Yep. Then avoiding something. Then avoiding something, you know? Take us home. Final parting words for people that just listen to part one, part two, they got excited, they got inspired, they got scared. What's your message for them? Get around people that are doing things with their life that you want to do. So I would join their mastermind. If you guys been listening to them for a long time, why are you not part of their mastermind? By far, and look, they're not telling me to promote them. I'm promoting masterminds because I spent 400 grand last year on getting into the right rooms. You would think, right? Like I was on the phone with Gary Vee this morning. I was on the phone with Tony Robbins a week ago. I was on the phone with Lewis Howes a couple of weeks prior to that. I have some pretty cool friends that are doing cool things. I still buy myself into the right rooms. One, I can meet some of those people in those rooms, but two, I want to be around people that are changing their lives and doing what they say they're gonna do. Masterminds are the number one way for that. So I would tell you guys, if you guys been paying attention to them listening to their podcasts and following their content, get in the mastermind with these guys. How did they get there again? Chrishutter.me.forwards-mastermind. By far, not even remotely close to any second place. By far, that's the number one thing that will change your life. Man, I appreciate that. Of course, yeah. We're so grateful for you. Thank you for coming on. For being an awesome storyteller. You should thank that person who's mastermind you were in or whoever you worked with. Myron Gold and his mastermind's $55,000 worth every single day. Absolutely. It's so good. And I will say, we learn the most through story because we can get in the story, we can feel it. If we haven't had that personally happen, we can get in the shoes because of how you told the story. So thank you so much for that, for being here with us today, for doing a two-part show with us. Of course. We've been so excited to be able to sit down with you. So it means the world that you've come to spend this time with us. And you guys make sure that you go to the show notes and go and check out the tour, but pay one more time for your tour. CreativeNationTour.com. Nothing to sell unless you want to buy a taco at the end of the meetup. I mean, and that's why we're all going. That's our turn that. Thanks for being who you are. Thank you. Thank you. I'm leading by example. Thanks for being a great human being. And it really, really inspires us. Thank you. Thank you so much. And you guys definitely go check out those show notes. Go click on the links below for PACE. And we will see you next week. Bye everyone. Thanks guys.