I've been through three or four different shifts in the economy. The panic and the chaos and the craziness usually all that it can either affect you or not. We have the opportunity to give it a different frame. Yes. When everybody's scared, I wonder if I could find opportunity. When everybody's making a decision, what if I just hold? And then when everybody sits on their hands, what if I attack? To not panic, to not make harsh decisions, and to say, "What opportunities exist?" I think that sets us apart. Dean, welcome to both of our shows. Yes. You're on Earn Your Happy and the Chris Harter Show. Now, we do this. I like it. I like it. Every single year, this has become a tradition, right? It has. Normally, you're at your East Coast Lake home. We're at our lake home in Wisconsin typically. This year, we're a little bit earlier, so we're in Newport. I know. I love and we're in person. And we're in person. What could be better than this? I missed you guys. So glad I get to say hi. Way better in person. So, let's jump right in uh to the economy and some of the stuff that's going on. And here's why I want to start there. We hosted our our highle mastermind a couple weeks ago. And we were shocked how many people were concerned about the economy and tariffs and stock market doing the wild things it's doing and all that. And these are high performers that usually you feel like they've got a grip, right? And then I've seen a trickle down effect with other people dropping into the DMs saying, "Hey, should I be worried?" So, the fact that you get to hang out with so many famous economists and you've got a different point of view than the average person. Is this finally the time to worry? Yeah, a really great question. I I have to say, and it could be just more years on this planet. Yeah. That even in my like picture 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, right? I'm halfway through my 50s. And over time, if you have enough things that go wrong and you see the other side, I should say go wrong. I've been through three or four different shifts in the economy. And when you see the other side of it, I think over time it makes you realize that the panic and the chaos and the craziness usually all that it can either affect you or not. Yeah. And I know that sounds really like duh, but a couple of things I want to share. If you Google Fortune 500 companies, do you know the majority of them were started in a down economy? I've heard that. Yeah. But you just Google it and it says it's like 60% were started in either a recession or a downshifting economy. Right. So I think through that and of course please know I'm not saying people shouldn't worry. We all have that internal worry. We all work hard for what we have. We don't want it taken away. But when I look through a lens like that, what I believe and and maybe it's the optimist in me and and we all have to work to be an optimist but and history and I' I'd have to be crazy not to see patterns at this phase of my life. But I think when the economy shifts and that happens, you guys have high level masterminds, so do Tony and I, right? is I think so many people when you get a little nervous, you get a little uncertain, you sit on your hands and I almost feel like if you're playing soccer, it's like you back up into the goalie and say, "Oh my god, let me protect." And you know, you can't win a game by just protecting. Now, when it immediately happens, I get it. But you got to find a way to rebound and find that hunger and look for opportunity in this because when most people sit on their hands and most people get fearful, I think it's the most incredible time to find opportunity because when things shift, we're looking at the obstacles where there's a few that find a way to look at opportunity. And I think if we can find a way to work on the inner game to get a little more like strength in this time, if we can Google what could go wrong, right? If you look at stocks, I mean, even Monday, it was like three Mondays ago that felt like the world just tanked. So many people called me and I'm like, maybe it's my age, but just hold your breath for a little bit. Don't sell anything. Don't react. I think those like if someone said, "What do you work on?" You have to work on you, right? Not to oversimplify it, but to to not panic, to not make harsh uh decisions, and to say, "What opportunities exist?" Yeah. I think that sets us apart. Yeah, I would agree because you can't control the stock market, you can't control the economy, but you can control your reaction and you can control your mindset and you can control the actions that you take and you can control the optimism. You mentioned, you know, at this point you're just very optimistic by default. I'm optimistic by default. Those are the things you can control and there's opportunity. When I say, you know, we could we could go in a lot of directions, but when when you're feeling stressed and and being partners with Tony Robbins doesn't doesn't, you know, it helps a lot, right? It doesn't hurt, I should say, right? But when when things go wrong, whe when we feel at our worst is when we don't feel we have a compelling future, right? If if you look at like half a millennials and a lot of Gen Z, they're the most depressed generation we've ever had, the most on anti-depressants we've ever had, the highest suicide. You could just Google and find that. And Tony and I had these conversations. And what he what we've talked about is and this is has nothing to do with politics but when you have the media saying the environment is going to end the world 10 15 20 years whatever it is or if you didn't like Biden or you didn't like Trump or you don't like both of them you don't you like both of them whatever it is the president will end it or it's going to be an oligarchy or tariffs are going to ruin our world or inflation's going to change or our dollar is going to be worth nothing like Venezuela in 10 years and it's going to take a wheelbarrow of money to buy a loaf of bread. When when stuff like that is said so much to a whole new generation who hasn't had enough time on this earth. What happens? I don't have a compelling future. Therefore, who cares about today? Yes. If if we said tomorrow, no matter how hard you work, Lori, four podcasts a week, I can't even believe. Amazing. No wonder you're so good at it. You guys are both doing so I love watching your hustle. You guys are doing fantastic things for the world. But if someone came in today and said, I know for a fact here's a crystal ball. in five years the world's over. Maybe tomorrow you don't wake up and hustle like you do. Right? Like or if you said you know the the business is o like so I feel like when this happens what is happening to us is we are thinking our compelling future is over. So if we are brave enough, if we are bold enough to say this doesn't feel good in this moment, but my f future is so big and so compelling that I will be resourceful, I'll be innovative, I'll adapt, I'll adjust, I'll pivot. It just gives you a different perspective rather than life's going to hell in a hand basket, dollar will be worth nothing. The environment is going to end it. And and I think three Mondays ago whenever the market crash that that immediate reaction is it's over. This is the big one. This is the big one. How many times in your life has the big one already been coming? At this point in my life, plenty of them. They don't even react that way anymore. How can you react to it? It's like it's the boy who cried wolf. And I'm not saying it's not difficult. And I'm not saying there's a shift. But we have to find a way to be bold enough to think that innovation, creativity. Listen, I don't know if it's true. Yeah. But I do know that oil used to be the sticky stuff on the bottom of camel's hooves. What changed it? innovation switched it from sticky stuff to things that power everything around us. I believe innovation will find a new way to power things. I believe AI could ruin us or I want to believe it's going to empower us. We get that choice. You know, I just I just said this recently to somebody else, but I remember when Wayne Dyer, I don't know if you like old Wayne Dyer stuff. I remember listening to a live interview of Wayne Dyer when he found out he had leukemia. And when he found out he had it, at first he was like, "What did I do wrong? Did I drink too much? Did I eat wrong? and I should have exercised more. It's my sleep. He had all these things. And he said he went through weeks of just damn, I got leukemia. It's going to kill me. Why did I do it? And he said then just one day and of course he's got lots of practice. He was Wayne Dyer for gosh sakes, right? But he said he woke up one day and like you know no matter what I have leukemia, but I'm going to be the crazy bastard who beats leukemia. I'm going to be the guy that everybody can look to and go, if Wayne did it, I can do it. And he said in one day he woke up and said, "Okay, I got leukemia. I'm gonna beat it. And he said everything changed. He still had it. Yeah. But he had a different frame around it. And he said, and now he ended up passing away of a heart attack, I think, or heart issues, not the leukemia. But it just made me realize any circumstance that's going on, though not easy, we have the opportunity to give it a different frame. Yes. When everybody's scared, wow, I wonder if I could find opportunity. When everybody's making a decision, what if I just hold? And then when everybody sits on their hands, what if I attack? Right. Right. And I I just think that's I think that's the only way we can get through it. Yeah, I agree. I think about that a lot cuz people will come I was just thinking of this with the mastermind. People were coming up to me and they were, you know, concerned about the economy and all these things and I was thinking, wow, I wasn't even fully aware of everything going on. You know, he informs me of a lot of stuff, but I try to stay off because I feel an immediate energy. Isn't that crazy though? If you didn't know, you just keep working hard. I literally realized like I was having some really great things happening in my business because I was so focused there and what I could do and what you can control. What I can control. And so I had this moment of like, wow, what this person is consuming is truly taking away from any action or energy that they can move forward. Because if I was looking at the same thing, I'd be in the same boat. I wouldn't be I wouldn't be doing four podcasts a week because I have no energy and I'd be like, "This isn't really worth it. Why am I doing this?" And just like you said, you know, in in these moments of like down time, it makes me think about asking the question, well, what do people need right now? Like, what would they need? What support would they need if they're feeling this bad? What support do they need if this is what they're thinking? And just changing that conversation. There's always I feel like there's always something we can do. Without a doubt. I want to frame the year that I just had. Okay. Um just so the listeners can catch up because they may not be aware in the last 12 months uh fellow which you're an investor in so you're aware um we woke up overnight last June and the CFPB made a decision where suddenly a couple million dollars in and two years of hard work we couldn't flip the on switch on. We're just weeks from flipping the on switch on and that was my first like punch to the gut, right? So that began stress which then gave me a stroke in September and I'm 50% blind in my right eye now and some other neurological things. I had no idea. Yeah. Isn't that wild? And uh so then boom, another punch to the gut. Right. Then um a couple other things happen and here we are uh you know maybe 10 months in from all that and I'm you can see my little broken chicken wing here. I tear my bicep off my shoulder and have to get surgery and do rehab and all that stuff. And yet, I'm still incredibly optimistic. Now, I want to be clear. I wasn't optimistic the whole way. Of course, I wasn't happy the whole way. I wasn't I had bad days and bad weeks and bad months and I doubted the decisions I made and I doubted myself. But the reason why I frame that is I don't know if it's the reps. I don't know if it's the mindset practice. I don't know if it's the people I have, you know, that that I surround myself with, but I probably on paper shouldn't be as optimistic as I am right now. Why do you think I'm built that way? You've known me for a while now. Why do you think somebody like you is built that way? And what advice do you have for someone who has their version of a year like that? Oh god, such a great question. I'm sorry you went through all that. You know, if you don't mind, I'm going to share a little something. Yeah. And I think it is time on this earth. Yeah. Right. Because I in a year like that, if it was in my 20s, 30s, 40s, and 50s would be completely different outcomes, right? Of how I would feel about it, how I would approach it. I'm sure I'd get through it. You got it through it so elegantly. There's a way that we can change sooner than later. Everybody says, "I went through this mess." 10 years later, they look back go, "Thank goodness I went through the divorce. I found the love of my life. Thank god the business partner stole all my money cuz I found out he was bad and I started my own thing. But when you're in it, you can't be like, I'm so glad I'm getting robbed from. Like you're in it. It sucks. I love being robbed. But can we can we condense that time? For example, you know, every action has a reaction and we c we have the opportunity to frame what it means. Yeah. Right. Maybe the shoulder like I know this sounds maybe the shoulder. it was time with all you had going on to slow down and it's time to reflect and maybe you can't work out in the morning so you read for a while or maybe you're journing for a while and as you're journaling something happens and pops in and it solves another problem and then someday you look back connected dots and go if I didn't have that stroke if I didn't have the thing with my arm if the business didn't delay we wouldn't have found that thing and I think it's just having the ability to connect the dots sooner you know as a as a kid I've told this story before but not often so I wanted to share As a kid, my dad was the youngest of 12, was physically abused and went through some really tough times, right? His dad knocked his teeth out and finally his mom took him away from his dad and all this kind of crazy stuff. Old school Italian guy from a small town, East Coast, just never got counseling, never but he had so much anger built up inside him. Chased away four wives, chased my sister doesn't talk to him who for 25 years, his sister and brothers, brothers and sisters didn't talk to him. So you can just imagine he just pushed everybody away. 12 years old I moved in with him and he was like the coolest dad who let me drive a car to school at 13. Taught me how to just respond like you want to go to school here and take the keys. Taught me how to hunt. Did all this fun stuff. Also just a crazy bastard who did so much insane stuff that it caused me to have nervous issues and you know just I had an ulcer at 12 years old cuz I was worried about both ends of the spectrum. Right? So the reason I'm telling you that is because there was a time living with him that I could see him come through the door and I'd call him his name was Paul. He's still with us, right? He's 88 years old. Like I'd see crazy Paul come through the door. Something must have happened that day. And I could feel his emotions and by the time I don't know if I was 13 or 14, I could manipulate his emotions to go into the dad I loved. Right? So, I could I could look back about changing your past and I wish I could have done it sooner is all I'm saying. I could say, "Man, it was really hard to make it with having a father that treated me the way I had an ulcer at 12 years old. He drove me crazy. He scared my mom away." All this kind of stuff. But that's not the way I get to look at it. You know, I look at it now. He taught me how to read and feel people. So now I feel like I can go on a stage with 50,000 people. And sometimes I'll be playing in one slide deck. I'm like, "Screw that. I can feel what they need. I'll shift." And whether it's true or not, I feel like I get to be good on camera and be partners with Tony Robbins and do really cool stuff and do an event with McConn. We had two million people live and I feel like I could feel them and it was the gift I got from my dad because I had to feel his emotions or life wasn't good. So I've changed that part of my history. My sister doesn't have the chance to change that because she's looking through the lens of what he did. I'm like, "Yeah, what he did, he made me a badass dude at what I do. I'm grateful for him. took time and all that, but my only point to maybe someone listening needs to hear it. You know, my buddy Trent Shelton had a year like you did. Yeah. He lost his mom a couple days later, lost his grandmother. Couple days later, neighbor mowing the lawn. A rock hit, went across, hit his daughter in the head, passed her out. She almost lo they almost lost her in the hospital. And then like two weeks later playing basketball, his nephew snapped his Achilles heel. So, it reminds me of so much of some of the things you had and he went through that same thing. He was in a tough spot. one of the most greatest inspirational speakers there are in a tough spot and then one day just realized, man, he found all the gifts and all of it and found a way to collapse that and people say, "Well, you're overly optimistic." It's like, no, we all go through the hell. It's just how long do you want to stay in the hell? Yes. Right. How long do you want to focus on what the president's doing or what the government's doing or the economyy's doing or what tariffs are doing until you get back to seeing opportunity rather than obstacles? Seeing the best rather than the worst. looking back at your history and really realizing you're resourceful and that with the right temperament, the right frame of mind, this might be the time that you actually have the breakthrough you've been looking for, start the business you've been dying to start, scale the thing that's ready to be scaled. This this concept of overly optimistic, I mean, what's the alternative to sit in the pain, to sit in the the poor me, to sit It's a true story, you know? I just don't understand how that serves you as opposed to choosing to be optimistic or overly optimistic because one of them is going to spring you into opportunity. You can even say how about I didn't mean to cut you off. I was just thinking like being brave enough to be optimistic because it's obviously this might sound uncool or unpopular, but I almost feel like there's a group that like you you're an outlier if you're optimistic. Like it's easier to look at all the things that are wrong. Yeah. And it's easier to fit in. It's easier to fit in and go, "Yeah, I know. I get it. That's that's work. Yeah, I get it. How could we make it with all that's going on?" And yes, look, like I don't know. I think maybe maybe we all need to be even more brave and more optimistic and be the oddball at the conversation. I think that's what we're doing. I think we lead by example. I just want everyone to know we don't all have easy years. We don't all have easy times. We all have our going on. Yeah. But I think we get to set that example that there's still a way to come out on top on the other end and like you say condense it. What would you say to somebody who, you know, they're they're trying to be a leader right now and maybe they are I'm just even thinking of with my company and looking out at, you know, orders and tariffs and things that really do impact your bottom line and am I going to have to change this product? Am I going to be able to keep this product? What is this going to look like? How much money is this going to be? to have to go into environments where people maybe aren't optimistic at all. What advice would you give them to stay focused on like them, you know, continuing to stay optimistic despite what is continually being shown to them or thrown at them as a leader? Yeah, great question. And and so if we if we were just sitting at Starbucks having a conversation talking about this, I would share what I've been doing this year. So every year you I'm responsible for hundreds of employees at this time about 400 almost wow between the two companies and every year I want to be a better leader a better guide you know right we if we have rocky you know uh as if the storms are coming I want to I want to be inspired I want to make the companies grow through this I want the teams to feel good and I also have certain companies that are getting hit with the same exact stuff right so I've got this philosophy this year after I've read a bunch of books going in. I've did a bunch of interviews and just trying how do I become a better leader, more efficient leader and get more things done in this new year in 2025. And what I would suggest is to narrow down your goals. We all as crazy entrepreneurs as we go, we don't realize we get multiple things going on and more and then we see a good idea. We're part of a mastermind. one of your members comes up and you're like, why aren't we doing that on LinkedIn and why aren't we doing that on Pinterest and we could do this and we could do that and all of a sudden you don't realize and what I've come to realize is me being a dreamer and shiny object syndrome and a crazy entrepreneur who tries to execute everything. It's like on the floor there's a wood floor and there's a whole bunch of different planks, right? It's we have all these projects going on and we work a little bit on this one and then a little bit on this one and a little bit on this one. It'd be like if you had Chris have 10 projects at home. I want this done. I want this the lens done. I want this done. I want the outside thing done. Let's do the thing on the beach. And it's like on the weekend you almost don't know where to start. You're doing a little bit. It's almost like you have 10 turtles going a little bit at a time. That's what it feels like across the it can be painful. So, so what I'm trying to do this year with the departments of my company and me personally is you realize you can't multitask. You can't have six things going on and expect to be good in any of them. and then you wonder why they don't work out and you might think the employee doesn't it's it's because the focus wasn't there. So my philosophy for this year is pick a goal, a big one, the one that moves the needle the most. The ones that fixes your company if tariffs stick, which in hindsight I don't think they're going to, but who knows? But if tariffs stick, what is the biggest goal that you have? And you could have five or six. And I'll tell you why this is so important. And for those of you listening, what is the goal that would move the needle the most towards the human, the woman, the man you want to become? What is that goal? And what I would suggest is make it bigger than you think. This is a new philosophy. You ready for this one? Yeah. Yeah. Is if you have a company and you're doing 20 million a year and I say to you, hey, next year, let's go to 22, 10% increase. Your brain goes to what do I need to maximize? How do I how do I fix the block and tackling? How do I save a little? How do I make a little more? How do I maximize the team? If I said to you, you're doing 20 million, Chris, you got to get to 40 next year. It stretches your brain in ways you did when you first started. You see, when we first started, we had crap. None of us, right? We've had these conversations. We had to dream about that if you told any of your if you told your family, Lori, we had the chance to your family like, "What are you couldn't even tell them?" Right? But then all of a sudden, we get in business and we start doing things and and we start don't realize we protect a little. We get in maintenance mode. We want to make sure nothing breaks. And we forget to be that crazy dreamer that when listen, when you went zero to a million or whatever that is, that was the most unlikely thing in the history of the world. So if you're at 20 or 10 million, why can't you double it? So all I know is I've been trying to push my team to have bigger stretch goals and I'm watching them come up with innovative stuff. And when they go, but I got this, this, that, don't. We're going to do instead of 10 turtles going across the the desert, you're going to collapse them. have one rabbit run until you take it all the way to the end. It either wins or fails and then you come back and grab the next one and go, right? So, I think that could apply to anybody. No business starting a business. What is the one needlemoving goal in your life and how do you make it bigger? Make it scary. That's number one. But this is the like I'm sorry I've been in business for 40 years this year, which is insane. Wow. Um, but this is the one that I think is changing it for me is once you set that goal, what are the constraints holding you back from achieving it and attack those constraints one at a time obsessively, just one at a time. Because what I was looking at with my teams and myself, if you got 10 goals and they each have five constraints, that's 50 problems. You're not solving any. No, no chance. You're dabbling. You're hoping one, right? You're you're juggling plates. But if you know for for example uh I'm going to give you example in in office actual team sales team something changed with the dialing system new new regulations and where they used to if a dialer reached out to our people they would contact 20% of the people we call and it's really just calls saying hey what's going on what are you doing can we help something changed it's down to 7% they don't talk to anybody they've been talking about it for months I sat down with our sales leader the other day I'm like what's your main goal inspire, impact, and serve more people. Okay. And then he listed 10 other things like whoa, what's the main goal is we want to get to this metric. Like, okay, what's the main thing holding you back? Well, we need more people. We got to talk to more clients. He went through 20. I said, what is the main thing? He's like, now we're down to five. I'm like, no, the main constraint. He's like, we're not talking to enough people and they don't have a system for it. I said, guaranteed there's a system out there. I know. I'm just juggling. I said, "What if you just took the next 5 days and did nothing but find that solution?" He He started, "No, no, no. What's the main problem or the main goal?" Okay. Main constraint, a dialer that could help us contact more people. Guess what happened by Thursday? That was about it. Found it. Amazing. He's been talking about for three and a half months. You know why? Because it was a problem amongst many. When it was the only problem, I know you. I know you're so you could solve anything. If the only thing was, hey, my product is going to go up 18%. I know you, if you had nothing else to think about for an entire week, I know you could find a way where maybe when they buy a product, there's a different enhancement they could buy all all month or they could get it delivered or there's a bigger version or there's a gold version. I don't know. I'm making stuff up. But if it was a bigger goal stretched out of your mind, not just how do I protect if tariffs go up, more like no, no, how do I double while tariffs happen? Your brain is going to think crazy right? And then you go, "But what would stop me?" Well, these three things. Well, I'm only going to focus on this one thing. I'm telling you, I feel like I've been in business for 40 years. I feel like I've been faking it. Like, how did I do what I do without this? And I know most of you might be listening. You get it? But it's just a different frame. Yeah. So, so goal, singular goal or less goals, stretch it, then figure out the constraints, attack them one at a time, and as you attack them, widen the circle as much as needed. Meaning, I come up with this constraint. It's like, hey, Dean faced this. Maybe him and reach out to me, reach out to Chris, reach out to all of our other amazing friends that you're connected. Somebody's got the answer, right? If you're focused on one thing, then the third part is how are you going to measure your progress? Because when we're in the thick of stuff, we're working our tails off and the only metric we sometimes focus on is is the company doing better or not. But we're making progress along the way. We always beat ourselves up. We never look in the rearview mirror as far as we come. A lot of times you're kicking ass. Look what you guys are doing. And sometimes, you know, like you look and you see somebody doing more or a bigger podcast or sold more books or has a bigger plane and you're like, "Oh, I'm I'm so slow. What is this? I've been doing this for eight years. Why am I not like? But you know what changes that? You just glimpse in the rearview mirror and go, look how far I came. Yeah. So, you have to measure your progress or you don't give yourself the energy. And then the last and most important piece is deadline. Yeah. None of us do anything without a deadline. I don't know about you guys. If it's due on Monday, I'm working on Sunday night or Monday morning. Right. Did that since high school. Still doing it. Still can't change it, unfortunately. And then where a deadline can really help, like you stretch the goal. Mhm. Shorten the deadline. Yes. Condense the box. Condense the box. Because we all know like if someone says, "Hey, uh, we want to double your business over the next five years." Right. Do you do anything tomorrow? If it's a fiveyear plan, threeear plan, do you do anything tomorrow? No. No. You're like, I got four. It's in that year four, month 11. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. But if you said, "Oh my god, I got challenged to double my business in the next 12 months." Tomorrow you're on a call going, "How the hell do we do it? What's the first thing?" Right? It just you just condense the time. And then the way I look at it is I'd rather put the hard work like I love working hard. So do you guys rather if you want to take your business next level, I'd rather condense a year where things are really difficult. Maybe you miss a few dance recital or date nights or a few friends at dinner. You miss it for a year. They wonder, your friend's like, "Where the hell are those two for a year? Where is Dean for a year?" Right? And then all of a sudden, you emerge and it's like everything's I I'd rather live the hard way for a short period so I can live the easy way longer. Yes, for sure. We're We literally said that on our walk this morning. I said, you know, this is definitely going to be that year where maybe people are like Yeah. wondering like why we're saying no so much because we we're at a place where you know we like had plateaued a bit and we know what it takes to get out of that and not even plateaued in a bad way but in a way that like the growth is like internally I'm just not happy because I know there's so much more and if we don't have a year like the years we used to in the beginning then we're always just going to stay right here and it we we've been asking ourselves the question you know we talk about our goals and where we want to be and we Who do we need to be to be a great person? I love your I love the focus though. Like the the one thing that is I mean even missing for me right now is like what's that one focus because I have so many different focuses. I mean a fuzzy target you don't hit. If you got your glasses off and you got bad prescription I can't hit a target. Put your glasses on you're like oh there it is. It's right there. Yes. So Dean what do you do like because you have so many important things. Are you literally every week right now kind of going what's my one thing like letting things fall? So for me personally I do that but also I'm trying to get my team in fact I just created something yesterday um literally yesterday because I I've been preaching this to the team hard since January one both teams and I created a document of one pager that has those four questions on it and then underneath I give them an example and I said from this point forward I need to know what your thing is. what constraints you working on because I want to know if I can help you with your constraints, what's your measurement, and what's your deadline. And I am pushing the team. It's my new framework for for the company because therefore, if they take some of those most important things on their plate, it kind of takes it off my So good. Opt in. Yeah. Opt in. I'm like, can I please opt in for that? That's really good. Yeah. Well, I'll send it to you guys. Okay. Great. Great. I'll give you my email in exchange if you already have it. you know, um, when we first met, you guys bought a house down the street from me and you guys were walking by my house and you told me you guys walked by and then I ran into you and, uh, I remember one of the first times you you came over our house and we were sitting outside talking and I was in that phase of my life where I knew the next year was going to be one of those hustle years. And and I'm not saying this because I'm here with you guys, but I really enjoyed we I think I felt we hit it off immediately. Oh yeah. So fun. We went to dinner and I after dinner I'm like I got in the car with my wife. I'm like they're friends for life and it felt comfortable and easy. And I mean that like I I feel that way about you guys. But I also told you I'm in a really busy phase of my life. Yes. Not I have four kids. Um I had two young ones at the time. We're still young, two and five. Our company that I co-founded with Tony Mastermind was taking off like a rocket ship. We were adjusting for co all these things. And I'm like I just want you to know I really enjoyed you guys and I I hope we stay friends forever. But most people are going to think, if you really liked us, how come he's not calling us and going back to dinner? And I'm like, I might not see you for a year. Do you remember me saying that? But if you can appreciate a friendship where I truly care about you, I'll be here for you no matter what you need always. And you have and vice versa. So I understand that phase. And I tell you, if I look back at my life, those years or whatever time I put in, the lift is massive. Yeah. So worth it. The lift is massive. I mean, I I heard somebody say once that commitment and convenience don't live on the same side of the street. Oh, wow. That's good. Right. Because we want the convenience of doing all the fun things and being with our friends and make sure we don't miss a birthday or an anniversary and we meet here and we go to the winery and we do the thing and then we do the other thing and like that is convenient and awesome. Yeah. But sometimes if we if we do that the whole time, we don't have the commitment to get those big lifts. We can ride where we are. Yep. Mhm. And it doesn't mean that everybody has that desire to do so. And if you're listening right now, you might just want to get to that first level. That's great. Then you're going to have to have commitment over convenience for a short period of time. Then enjoy the convenience for a while. Party, do your thing, travel, but then you're going to get to a certain point and go, "This is stale. This is flat." Then you go back to the commitment. Yep. Right. Yep. So, we've been talking a lot about leadership, right? And what how you're leading your team and how Lory's leading her team and and all the advance, you know, just bury ourselves away for a year. But let's now switch it to the soloreneur or the the personal brand individual that's trying to go from zero to one or from one to two. What kind of limiting beliefs are they facing right now? What's the easiest way for them to take action? Totally got it. Let's address that group. Yeah. Um there there are so many things and there are there are limiting beliefs. It's your surroundings and we could talk about a bunch of them, but one that I've really been focusing on more is I've never worked for anybody. Yeah. Right. I I started my own thing in high school cutting cutting firewood and then I went to cars and then real estate. So I've never worked for anyone. So I think I ignored this one for a while. So I I like talking about this one the most because I never looked through the lens of being an employee because I never worked for anybody. I've never had a career. Interesting. I never got a paycheck from anybody ever in my entire life. I never had a boss. Imagine that. I've never had a boss in my entire life. Wow. I was just the kid in high school that was a dreamer that my friends loved me, but they thought, "This kid, he's not going to college. His family doesn't have money. Lived in a damn trailer. The only trailer park in our town I lived in when I was a kid." I So what I've come to realize is there's a big chunk of people listening right now that have a career that are hoping for something else. Wouldn't that be true? Yep. Without realizing it, I think we're we're we're taught this and and I'm not knocking it because thank God for career people. team people that work for us are teams. Amazing. We where would we be without incredible people to be on our teams and and work alongside of us, right? Really nowhere, right? Yeah. But here's what I think. In the wrong career, I think you go to school, you try to get good grades, you try to get good grades in college, try to get the best job. And I don't think anybody approaches their job and goes, "Hey, I just want to get in here. I want to be complacent. I hope I get a little raise. I hope they don't see me." I don't think anybody starts that way, but I believe so many people have the ambition. I'm going to get raises. I'm going to get promotions. I'm going to help run this company. And then over time, maybe their boss doesn't hear them or they're not seen. Maybe they're in a boardroom and they try a couple of times and it's never taken. They see a way to make their department efficient, but someone else gets called because they know somebody gets called to the the promotion. And I think there's a time where you just let it go and go, "Well, this is the way it is in the world." You just, you know, I I'll just I'll just, hey, I'll do my thing. I'll put some money in my 401k and hopefully make it 65. And And there's a time that you put your dreams and and your emotions just in check. I I I believe it. And I've had the opportunity to speak to so many people where I have hundreds of thousands of people live. And I've watched when I just said what I shared and and I'll watch tears come down eyes or or hands raised. And the only reason I say that is what you don't realize is all of a sudden you tuck away the innovation. You tuck away your creativity. You tuck away that inner innovator, that hungry person, the person that's resourceful that could figure out anything and you just kind of coast. And then you get people in your life go, "Well, you could be happy. You got that great job. You don't even have to do much and you make it." Yeah. But the inside is dying. Yep. And then all of a sudden we might come on or Tony Robbins and I when we do our big events come on and go time to do your own thing and you don't even know why you feel this hesitation. Like I used to I used to take my kids crayons and draw the logo on the back of their paper. Why did I stop doing that? Is because you slowly got pushed back to your voice doesn't matter that you're not enough. That you don't know enough. And then all of a sudden Tony and I or you guys will say you are enough. You know enough. You're just lacking the blueprint. Like what I always think about my mom when my parents got divorced, she worked three jobs to make nothing. And I always look at my mom as she was like a badass without a blueprint. Yeah. Wow. Right. And so I think the hesitation in some and there's lots of reason. It is the story. It is so many things and we could talk about that, but the one the career thing I think that one creeps up on people. You've had someone tell you what to do, when to show up, how to show up. You're building someone else's dream. So you give up on yours, right? And now all of a sudden we might come by an event and say start doing your own thing. Be a creator. Create a workshop. Do your own mastermind. Do a workshop. Build a community. And I think without realizing you let the guard rails of the job go up. Even though you don't like the road you're on, you can't go over the cliff. Right. And then you start brain starts thinking, "Oh, if I do my own thing, the guardrails go down. I could drive off the cliff." Yeah. and and and that that that that restriction that you felt is actually the thing that's holding you back from unleashing who you're meant to be, right? We're living someone else's life in some areas. Like, so I I believe if you can face that and go, "Hey, everything every new level has a new devil. Everything you do has a has a good and a bad, right? I I could be in this job that's kind of safe, but I don't want to get to the end of my life and realize I missed it." That's a little more painful to me. So, what I'd say is it's time to investigate. It's time to just explore. We we talked about this before. Find a hunger on why you want to do it, right? We were talking about limiting beliefs. Find a new belief that you can do anything. Secondly, I think we find somebody. This is something we're definitely not taught in school. Find somebody who's already done what you want to do. Right? We we know this. This is our lives. It's why you run masterminds, model proven practices. If I want to learn something I don't know, I'm going to find somebody who's already done it. Right? It's just a new way of thinking. So if you if you find a little bit more hunger, if you realize the story you've been telling yourself hasn't served you, so you have a little bit different story, you think outside the box, you stay say you're brave and bold enough, then find somebody already doing something that you like and model them. And lastly, make sure it's an industry that has the opportunity to grow, not die with all the changes coming on. If you can do those three things and realize that the career might have been good for a while. It got you out of Egypt, but it's not taking you to the promised land. You feel dead on the inside and that career is actually been the thing that you feel safe, but is it really safe to get to the end of your life and realize you missed it? So, I think there's a lot of ways to approach it, but hopefully something I said sparked to just be an investigator. It doesn't, you know, when people hear something new, it's not like you have to make a dramatic change today, but be bold and brave enough just to investigate. Look under the hood, try some things out. Right. You said a badass without a blueprint. When you referenced your mom, that one hit me. There's so many people, and this is what I respect about you and Tony, is you go out of your way to provide the blueprint to millions of people instead of keeping it to yourself. That phrase right there, that'll stick with me. So, tell me for somebody listening right now who you just lit a fire like, "Okay, great. Tell me the blueprint. What do I do?" Do you believe like what what is the belief? Does everybody need a personal brand? Like are you telling your kids right now that they need a personal brand? Is it too saturated? Like what does that look like? Here's the cool part is um I love what Tony and I do. I think we have the opportunity. We teach people to have their own personal brand to be a creator to take their life experience and turn it into a a product. Right. Um it's what he's been doing for 46 years and me for 29. We got 75 years in it between us. I believe why I believe it's such a perfect time. This industry I think it's in its infancy if you want to know the truth. Wow. The world is I mean think about if I've been in it 29 years 28 years. If you were at dinner with people five years ago let's say 10 years ago 15 years ago and said I have a coach at a dinner table 15 years ago. People like you have a watch. Are you basketball team? Yeah. Are you in basketball? Like when you have a coach right it would actually be weird. Say, "Oh my god, I want to be better at gardening. I want to be better at whatever. I bought a course." Like, what do you what do you mean? Now, go to dinner with five people now. Say, "I have a coach." Oh my god, we have a love coach. What do I have coach? Oh, I you know, I went through menopause. I have a coach. I went through a marriage and trimester 4 or went through a birth. Trimester 4 is killing me. So, I have a coach helping me feel more positive. First trimester coach. Yeah. Fourth trimester. A sleep coach for your kids, right? We had a sleep coach, a virtual sleep coach for our second B like and and it shows in this industry they predict it to be a trillion dollars a year by 2027. It's two years from now, right? So if it's an emerging industry, you don't have to worry about tariffs. You don't have to worry about uh uh inflation. You don't have to worry about product cost or inventory because you've already paid for the product with your experience. And what people are realizing is I just want to learn from somebody who's a chapter ahead of me, right? So what I want to share is we're we're doing a big event coming up and what we love to do and we should have about 800,000 people sign up from about 100 countries is just show people this is one of your opportunities. Let us show you why this industry, why now? Why you and what I love about it is it's okay if it's not for somebody. We know we're waking people up, right? So what I'd say you said, what do I say to my kids? My son's here who's 16 on his phone over there. Um, he's bored, but I have an 18-year-old as well and a five and a two-y old. They got some time. But the two older kids, we had lunch yesterday and I've told them the same thing since they were little. I said, "You can go to college if you want to go for the experience. Some people aren't going to like this, but unless you're going for a specific profession, I think college is useless." Yeah. And some people aren't going to be happy I said that. Be a doctor. You want to be an engineer? that I get it, but 76% of people who get a degree don't use it. No. And so what I said is if you want to go for the experience, which I know he does, I'm not sure my daughter does. I said, that's fine. The other option is find something you're passionate about and go mentor under somebody for two years. That's the route my daughter's most likely going to take. She likes interior design. Right now, we're looking for great interior designers. I'm going to let her reach out, her send the letter. I said, "You can tell them that you are going to be the best employee they've ever had, and you're free." So, because dad works hard, I can't give you a handout. I can't make your life easy. If you don't want to go to college or mentor, get nothing from me. Not a car, nothing. I love you. You can live in my house and eat. That's about it. But if you go serious and you go work for somebody and you are the best employee they ever had, I'll support you rather than paying for college and that person will get a great employee for free. You can learn what took them 20 years, condense it in two, and you could start off where they left off. So that is that is you say how I so I would love my kids to be in the knowledge industry to share information because information is becoming the new currency. Knowledge is the new currency. The value of it going up. It's not taxed. It's not tariff. It has no insul, you know, inflation issues. And you don't have to ship it. You don't have to warehouse it. You get to change people's lives for a living. Like look what you guys look what you guys do. I watch your masterminds. I watch people don't want to leave when your masterminds are over. They gain knowledge and skills to go faster. You guys get to make a living and thrive by empowering other people. So Tony and I show that over a three-day event and we love doing it because it's our life. We owe a debt of gratitude to it. But what I'd say is if it's not your industry, it's okay. But come be inspired that you're meant for more because you will leave being with us knowing you are enough. Yep. Knowing you're good enough, knowing you could do whatever you want as long as you had a blueprint. It kills the doubt. And you guys give the blueprints. Lori and I watch every year. You guys do us every year. Selfishly. Selflessly. What's the word I'm looking for there? Selfishly. Selflessly. Selflessly. There we go. Say it fast enough. It doesn't matter. It It's It's your way of giving back. What makes this year different or more important than the other years that we've tuned into? Well, thank you for that. And you guys are always here supporting and I I I'm beyond grateful and we take good care of your people. Um, this year is different because the world has changed completely. I mean just if if you had to give some reasons why 50% of businesses don't make it especially soloreneurs if I did you know solopreneurs I just I went on uh chat GPT or or Google and do 80% 70 to 80% of soloreneurs aren't in business in five years. Wow. I believe it. And when you break down why, the main reason is they lack the the skills to run their own business, of course, they lack the blueprint and they lack the guidance, right? I'm stuck. What do I do? Oh, don't worry. We got this. How do I extract this? How do how do I lay out my teaching points? All right, let's do this. Do I coach? Do I do a community? Should I turn this into a course? How should I do a mastermind? Should I do a Zoom workshop? I'm not sure. And when you when you say, "I'm not sure," there's a part of you goes, "I'll do it later." And you don't go back to it. Or if you don't know it, how do I market? How do I get people to say yes to me? I'll do that later. You never go back to it. Right? So this year is a big year because we just spent the last couple of years training an AI to think like Tony and I do in this industry. 76 years of doing this. We still do. We've just done we've done 13 live events averaging a million people each. We just did our 13th. This will be our 14th one, right? So, we're still doing it at a high level. We have the history and now we've trained an AI to think like us. It's not chat. It's not. And we're going to we're going to allow people to use that during the event to see what it's like to go, hey, how do I write this? I don't know. Let's ask Tony and Dean. I don't know how to get the sales page done. Let's ask Tony and Dean. I don't know how to get my first sale. Let's ask Tony and Dean. So, imagine having the opportunity for the blueprint from a couple guys have been doing it forever. And I I'm not saying this for any other reason is this is our passion project. This is we don't have to do this. We want to do this. So now you get to learn from a couple guys that have been doing it forever and still at the top of their game. Yep. And then you have an AI that thinks like this that's with you the entire time to make sure you don't get stuck. You keep you have a guide that keeps moving. So we're I haven't shared this much, but we're calling it guided business development. We want to create a new category. So good. So we're we want to create a whole new category. Like if you go in business If you don't have a guided if you don't have guided business development y GBD if you don't have it then you're not going to make it. You're gonna fall behind. You're gonna fall behind on demand. But imagine having the education and then somebody who's with you the whole way and then having the tools to make it real. Like that's what I we're calling guided business development. This is the first year we're sharing with the world what that looks like. And and I'm I'm like out of my mind excited. People should show up just to get access to that. I've gotten to play with this. I've gotten to play with these. I don't think people understand how creepily accurate it is. It is like asking you and getting your real advice. Not something from Chat GBT. It's like asking Tony and Tony is amazing. All AI is amazing. We just have a whole team developed on loading in how we think and they've been training it. So if it answers this way, it's like this is the modern way. It literally is. I joke with the team every year the registration page. We want as many people as possible to register. Yep. So every year I am the architect of these. I've been architecting them for 20 years and I still do. It's my core competency. I can't outsource certain things. You should outsource a lot, but certain things that you're great at, you never outsource, right? So the page what people land on to register, we're always fighting to make the highest percentage. If out of 100% of the people, I want 80% of the people, right? You don't get 80. 50 is a really good number, right? So every year I always mess with the team. I'm like, I hope someone can write better copy or a better headline to have a higher conversion. And no one usually beats me. I've been doing a long time, right? But every year I want them to beat me. Last year somebody did. Oh, no way. Somebody on the team. No, our AI. Oh, no way. That beat me. That's incredible. And it's funny. Then the team's like, "Ah, you finally got beat." And then I said, "Well, it kind of thinks like me." That's where it just came from a better version of me, right? So then they're like, "You." But anyway, that's and people are gonna get to use this. They are during the event. Yes. That's wild. And they can go register at thrive850. That's thrive850.com. thrive850.com. Um Yeah. And it's free. Totally free. Yeah. Yeah. No, I love that you say that. Not kind of free. Totally free. Like shed a little bit more light. Who's going to be speaking? Who's going to be teaching? Why should someone show up? Yeah. So again, if if you decide this isn't industry isn't for you, you're still going to have the time of your life. I mean, where else do you get? It's Tony Robbins and myself. Uh Matthew McConnA is coming because he turned his book into a course. So he's gonna talk about that. Uh J Shetty, our friend J Shetty and his wife. Y um they're coming. Uh Gary Brea. Oh, great. He's he just came on because he um you know, all his health stuff now turned into a digital format. He gets to impact millions rather than just the people in his clinic. M um but more than that I'm I love having highly successful people but we're going to have 800,000 people from around the world and we're going to highlight some of our ordinary people doing extraordinary things great because they took their knowledge and turned it into a product and the people that thought this could never be for me I don't have a following who would listen to me I love busting all those myths y and showing somebody a path to you know a path to more the fact of the matter is and and I'm not 100% certain but we're about 65% women mastermind our company that we co-ounded. And some people ask me why and I think maybe it's because I Yeah, that's that's a true story. This is the this is the decade of the woman entrepreneur for sure. No question. You guys probably both see it. I ain't going to argue. It definitely is. But I also think like people ask me why I we don't do it on purpose. Like we don't pander like we don't have we don't like our our sites aren't pink like and that would be like that would be like that would be like that would be so bad. like we just us, right? And um but I think it boils down to this whole badass without a blueprint. Yeah. I just said that for the first time out of my mouth about two weeks ago, right? When I was describing my mom. Mhm. And I truly believe that I want to build something that if my mom would have had if my mom had a blueprint, she would have killed it. So we built something for my mom who's a badass, the best the best mom. Anything she did, everybody went to her for advice. She just didn't know the path. but also somebody dabbling in this industry or in this industry, why not come get the unfair advantage from Tony and I, right? So, it's it's I think that's what we get to do. I think that's why it's become a movement. So, not to talk about anymore, but I think everybody should go. Everybody will leave with something. Well, I love what you guys do because you do it it's it's not just the ability to learn that and get the blueprint, but you in Tony and Dean fashion like truly work people through all of the things that block them. And I think even if you're already in this business, that's why Chris and I get so much out of it is it doesn't matter how many years we've done this, there's there's always something that can sneak into your brain. Of course, when I watch you guys, we all learn from each other. Yeah. We just we learn so much. And also like doubt can creep in over the years too of like it's good to get reattached to the industry, reattached to your why, kind of clear out the cobwebs of whatever. Maybe something else like came in your brain or maybe I'm getting too old for this. Maybe I'm getting like all these different things come up and you leave on fire. Yes. You leave on fire and I think that we have to plug into those things and you guys are so incredible with doing it for free for all of us that you really have been industry leaders who always lift everybody up. Yep. So that link is thrive850.com if you want to get on for free. thrive850.com. Last question to put a bow on this thing. Yeah. I know that you guys spend hundreds or maybe thousands of hours organizing this. Yeah. A lot. Obviously spend days putting it on. You don't have to work anymore. You don't have to do this for anybody. You've already made your mark in the world. Why are you still working this hard to make this much of a difference? You know, I I think it's a gift I wish everybody could get is we all have to have a moving compelling future, right? If you don't like I always think of it and I know there's probably a longer answer than a short ending, but we all need our lighthouse and in most cases you've all we most of us have reached goals that we once thought were possible. Yeah. Right. And once you do, you got to find something new that gets you out of bed that compels you forward. Whether that's your first sale, your first independent uh uh uh you know check that you earned on your own or the next level, we got to find something that drives us forward. And you know, I I've passed I've been blessed to pass so many things like retiring my parents and and so many things that I I never could have dreamed possible. And right now, especially being partners with Tony, every time we talk, something like the conversation says, "We have a lot of lives to change." Dean, like we got blessed with this gift. We got blessed with a megaphone and a microphone. There's a lot of people hurting. Like talking about a generation that's struggling when we talk. He's like, "How do we We don't care about politics. We don't care about We care about people." Yeah. Right. And when you when you see this, you've been on it. Hundreds of thousands of people, different backgrounds, different religions, different countries, different languages, different political views. For three days, everybody loves each other. Yes. Yep. Everybody's cheering for each other. One another. I'm not talking about, you know, I mean love, meaning we're we're all know we're meant for more. We're all together. And with Tony being my partner, it's like, how do we leave this world better than we found it? And this industry saved our lives. We both talk about Jim R. He went to a Jim Ran event, life changed. I went to a Tony event, changed my life. So, if we can leave this world and somebody says, I went to a Dean and Tony event and I shifted my life, then then we're doing a good thing for the world. You're just continuing the chain, right? You went to Jim, you went to him, and you guys are just passing the baton down by doing this. Well, thank you guys. You're both awesome. Thank you so much. Thanks for being on. We love and appreciate you. And we'll see you next week, everyone.