Shout out to the sponsors of this episode. Skiims shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com and let them know we sent you by selecting earn your happy in the dropown after checkout. Airbnb. Host your place on Airbnb. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/cohost. Shopify, the e-commerce platform I trust for Glossy. Start your $1 a month trial at shopify.com/happhappy. Headway, the number one book summary app. Use code happy for 25% off. and Brevo. Head over to brevo.com/earn. Use code earn to get 50% off starter and business plans for the first three months of annual subscriptions and blinds.com. Save $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Go to blinds.com and use code earn at checkout. Before you start asking for investors, are you somebody that you would invest in? Are you taking the actions where you would want to invest in that person going, "Whoa, they're just not going to quit. Wow, they're figuring it out. Whoa, they're putting themselves out there on social every day. Wow, they're going above and beyond for that company, for that brand, for that podcast. That's the level that you have to be at in order to win. >> And we're back >> with another episode of He Said, She Said. >> Hey, what are you drinking? I don't think I've seen that color before. This is my typical chocolate isogenic shake, but I just added blueberries. >> Interesting. I like it. It's like a purpley blue gray >> blueberries. >> Oh, wait a minute. >> I just worked out. I had a great workout, which you know that I have been doing Pilates as well. You guys, you can't stop lifting. You know, I'm all about lifting. Well, maybe you don't. I haven't talked about it in a while, but I lift two to three days a week, but I have added Pilates twice a week. And I never used to do it because I was like m I need all my workouts to be super hard. But I've just learned so much about, you know, your cortisol and also I really want to start enjoying my workouts even more. And I am so obsessed with Pilates. It's lree actually. But anyway, I always always have a shake no matter what after all of my workouts. And I have had an isoggenic shake >> 15 years. >> 15 years. Here's why. I stay the fullest the longest on these shakes. So >> that makes sense. >> And for me that's huge. Like great. Give me an appetite suppressant. This is great. >> Well, speaking of eating healthy, that's a good analogy for what we're going to talk about today. >> I know. I'm excited. >> You know, a lot of people out there, I'm going to stick with your analogy of staying fit. And I got to give you props. What you've done so consistently your whole life is you've crowded your plate, so to speak, with so many good foods that there just hasn't been room for many of the bad foods. Yeah. Right. >> Yes. I absolutely feel like I get to eat what I want. I have the pizza. I have some cocktails, but I am like always 80 to 90% healthy. >> Yeah, totally. Well, that's a good metaphor for why I think we're really successful in life. Because if we're using this metaphorical plate of people in our life, the one thing that we clearly started doing about 15 years ago when we made our comeback from below zero financially >> was we got real serious about crowding our plate with smart, talented, positive people that supported our dreams. And that just naturally crowded out the individuals that didn't. And I mean, this wasn't an accident. We got real serious about, okay, we're not going to ask people to leave our life, but we're going to be unapologetic about what we need in life and where we're going. And some people are going to be attracted to that. And when they are, it's going to make the other ones just kind of fall off the plate. This is one of the hardest subjects and one of the most important because a lot of people say to me, Lori, the people who are my toughest critics or that I struggle with the most are my family or are my spouse or are my co-workers and I can't quit my job and I can't leave my family. And whether you want to believe this or not, I had to deal with all of this. My family was some of the most challenging of all because the mindset was so poor, was so broke, and especially around health and fitness, you guys. I was told my whole life that we just had bad genetics. We just had the short end of the stick. And I was literally told verbatim that I would be fat like the rest of my family my whole life. So, I had to not only break an actual emotional pattern, but I had to break physical patterns in my family. And I will tell you that I had to, as a teenager, start spending more time out of the house at the gym, taking walks out as much as I could, and getting a little section of the fridge for healthy food in order for me to break any patterns, living in a really tough environment. And I will say it is harder. It is going to be harder for the people who can't leave those particular environments, but let's start getting into some of the things that they can do in order to start crowding out their plate. Chris, >> yeah, I've got one comment and then a question. And the comment is this. Why people get stuck here is they think that they're leaving people behind and they're not. When you stand up for what you want and when you speak very loudly what you need, you're sending an invitation for the right people to show up for you. And guess what? Some people just choose not to. Some people will, but some people choose not to. So in that case, you're not leaving them behind by speaking up for what you need. You're sending an invitation for here's where I'm going and here's what I need. Who wants to support this? And unfortunately, you find out who will support it and who won't when you start speaking up. So that's my comment on that. You're not leaving people behind. You're sending a loud invitation for them to come along. My question for you though, Lori, >> was before you became famous for for being fit or or I should say that's how what you just described how you became famous for being fit, all magazine covers, all the titles, all that. But now use that as a metaphor for our business because that's really what we were going for today is if you're stuck in your business, if you're working really hard, if you have laser focus on the dream, if you're doing quote unquote the right things, if there's if you're leaving nothing on the table and your business still isn't moving, it's got to be the people that you're listening to or the people that are supporting you or the people that you're taking advice from. So tie these two together for me. >> Yeah, it it's actually the same analogy. What are you consuming? So consumption obviously isn't just food, water, whatever you're taking in. Consumption when we're talking about your business is what are you listening to? What shows are you watching? What music are you listening to? Are you listening to literally broke mindset music over and over? Like there's a there's a song that Chris and I listen to that's like we ain't got money, honey. will literally rechange the words out of it because we don't even want any of that in our brain because that's not the programming that we want at all. So, you have to start consuming podcasts that are going to help shift your mindset. You have to start consuming books. You have to start being around people who have a completely different conversation. And you know, whenever we have masterminds, one of the biggest thing that people tell us is, >> "Oh my god, the conversations are just different." >> Like they literally say verbatim every single time, "I had no idea. I had no idea how empowering these conversations could be. I had no idea that borrowing belief and hope from someone who's done it is a real thing. I had no idea how I would feel and how easy other people who have done it before can make it. We just put all of these obstacles, all of these blocks. We cancel ourselves before we even begun. We're literally consistently cancelling our lives before we even allow ourselves to think it because of the conversation that's been in your family, that has been at work, that's maybe been in your hometown, your town that you live in. There is a conversation going on right now. Whether you believe it or not, that is happening around everyone's beliefs. And because you are a product of that environment right now, because that's what you're consuming the most. That is what you unconsciously believe. And so I just want you to start taking data. That's it. Like just start taking the temperature on what are people saying around you? What are they thinking? How do they think? Do they think the world is bad? Do they think that really bad things are happening and it's only getting worse? Do they think that you can't make money? Do they think that the world is getting worse? Do they think prices are just going up? And while all of this could be very real, there's also a very real world where people are winning, where they're making a lot of money, where they're finding new businesses right now because of AI. They're not losing businesses because of AI. There's so many conversations that you just have to shift the conversation. You're going to do that by getting in different rooms, going to different workout classes, finding different friends whose conversations you're you feel uplifted by. You have to completely change all consumption. Just like when I used to be a personal trainer and I would tell people like I can, you know, bring you into this environment and we can work out so hard. I could work you out five days a week. You could crush it. You could be the strongest person. But if you go back to an environment where you're consuming crap foods and mentally you're consuming just stuff that tells you that you can't do it and your body's never going to change, there's no way I can change you without completely changing your environment and the way that you think. >> This just happened to me this week. One of my clients came to me and they said, "Hey, can I ask you a question? Do you feel like it's just tougher to sell right now? Like is there are there less sales happening right now?" And I said, "Maybe, but at the same time that you're asking me this, one of our friends just had a record million-dollar plus launch in the shortest amount of time possible to earn that million dollars." So, which one do you want to concentrate on? Your feeling that maybe things are changing a little bit or let's go get the data from those other people in our circle that are still setting records. And it really comes down to which echo chamber do you want to listen to? Which one do you want to learn from? Which one do you want to create your playbook from? And this goes back to the analogy of crowding your plate. Your plate should never stay the same. If your plate has stayed the same over all the years of who's on it, quote unquote, then you're screwed. You need to continually be inviting new, healthy, big, thinking, smart individuals on your plate that will slowly crowd the other ones off the plate if they can't keep up. >> And there's a simple question you can ask yourself around, you know, your results. If you're not getting the results that you want, you have to go find someone who's winning. Figure out the actions they're taking and have a real conversation with yourself around are you executing at the level that they are. Are you doing the things and putting yourself out there as much as they are >> or do you even know how to do it? >> Do you even know how to do it? And there was a a question I was on the powerhouse women stage and a girl raised her hand in the audience. Super sweet girl. She had a jewelry brand and you know I love jewelry. I'm like I want you to win girlfriend. And she was kind of asking about investors and if it's you know what what the what the temperature is on investors kind of feeling like oh how would I even find this? I have no idea. Are people even investing? Like I think it's you know kind of like downtrodden about it. And I had asked her and I I posed this question to the whole audience because I'm asking myself this right now because I'm obviously in a fund raise right now. And I said, you know, before you start asking for investors, are you somebody that you would invest in? Ladies, I have to share this because it is too good to keep to myself. Bras and underwear have always been a bit of a struggle for me. It's hard for me to find something that I absolutely love and it feels like when I do they're discontinued or I can never find in my size. They either dig in, they roll, they scrunch up or just feel uncomfortable halfway through the day. I wear a lot of white. I wear a lot of form fitting clothing. And so I hate the fact that you can either see your intimates or they roll or they just don't look right. And I honestly thought that this is just how it was until Skims, you guys. I finally tried the Fits Everybody collection and I'm I am literally blown away. Like, I thought they would be good, but I had no idea they would be freaking amazing. The material is unreal. It's buttery soft. It's breathable. It molds to my body like a second skin. It's sexy. It's literally the best fit in fabric I have ever worn in my life. And I got the fits everybody triangle bralette. The thong and the dipped front thong. And I'm not exaggerating when I say I am obsessed. The bralette gives me the support I want without ever feeling like I have really anything on. The thong doesn't roll up or bunch. And the dipped front style is so flattering and comfortable. I forget that you even have it on. And you guys, I will never go back now. I'm going to replace everything in my drawer with SKIMS. I'm obsessed with the material. I'm obsessed with the color. And if you ever struggled with intimates that don't feel right, I promise you this is the solution. The comfort, the fit, the feel. Ski nailed it. Shop Skiims fits Everybody collection now at skims.com. And after you place your order, let them know we sent you. Select podcast in the survey and be sure to choose earn your happy in the drop- down menu. And yes, you guys, this is an ad, but I am literally obsessed. This is the brand I wear and that I'm replacing everything with. One of the most stressful things about moving into a new home is all the little details you don't think about at first, like window treatments. In our last home, I used blinds.com for our blinds and our curtains, and it was honestly such a seamless experience. They sent me samples super fast. They helped me choose what would look best, and the turnaround time was fast. Thank God because our windows weren't covered. Everything was easy, beautiful, and done without the headache that I expected. That's why I'm so excited to share blinds.com with you because they've truly reinvented the way we shop for custom window treatments. So maybe you even just want to upgrade what you have right now. There's no more waiting around all day for an in-home designer just to get an overpriced quote. So, with blinds.com, you can shop 100% online or get expert advice through virtual design consultations, all on your schedule. Whether you know exactly what you want or you need help deciding, blinds.com makes it simple. You can do it yourself or you can let their pros handle everything from measure to install. Either way, you'll have experts by your side every step. And you'll get the same designer look that you see in a showroom without the showroom prices. Plus, they've got so much more than blinds. Think bamboo shades, shutters, even outdoor patio shades. And every order is backed by their 100% satisfaction guarantee. With 29 years in business and over 25 million windows covered, they're the number one online retailer for a reason. Right now, Blinds.com is giving our listeners an exclusive $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout. Limited time offer. Rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. Are you doing the actions? If you looked and did the due diligence on your life right now for your company, are you somebody that you would put 25K in? Do you know that the actions that you're taking, could you make money? Could you get ROI on that investment? And you know, if I look at my life, I'd like have to ask myself all all the time, okay, are you taking the actions where you would want to invest in that person going, whoa, they're just not going to quit. Wow, they're figuring it out. Whoa, they're putting themselves out there on social every day. Wow, they're going above and beyond for that company, for that brand, for that podcast. Oh my god, I absolutely know what that girl offers because she won't shut the [\h__\h] up about it. Like, she literally won't stop talking about her mentor collective mastermind. Like, that's the level that you have to be at in order to win. Like, if you want to be known for something, you have to be overthe-top. And it's just the truth. Like, Chris and I always are like, "Okay, God, we need to be doing more. We need to be doing more." And this isn't a conversation about burnout, but in all honesty, right now we are in a time where you do have to do a little bit more and figure it out. >> What do you not like? I'm going to stick with your vein of getting outside of yourself and looking at yourself and being able to have a conversation with yourself. So, if you could split you into two people, right? Two of the same people and you're having a conversation with yourself, not only asking the question that Lori just said, but asking a question of like, why? Why aren't you changing out the people in your life? Why aren't you upgrading the people in your life? Why aren't you going and plugging into other circles? Why aren't you investing the money? Why aren't you m taking the risk? What is really behind that? Why? That you're sticking with the same old routine and the same old advice and the same old mediocre support and the same old everything. Why? Cuz I don't understand it. >> I mean, a lot of it is just fear. It's it goes back to survival. And a lot of people have the fear that I had growing up. You'll be cast out of the tribe. You'll be cast out from your friends. They're going to think they're going to talk bad about you. They're going to talk behind your back. They're going to say you're selfish, self-absorbed. But here's the thing. You have to simultaneously be making those new friends who think that it's not only completely normal, but have a conversation around, hey, this isn't self-absorbed that you're taking this time, you know, from your family to build the business. You're thinking of the future so that they don't have a stressed out mom or a stressed out dad who never knows where the money is coming from. And the kids are like fearful and feeling like they can't do enough and they're not feeling like they're safe because they don't have that feeling of safety from their parents because it's so freaking stressed out. And you guys, I grew up this way. So, is it selfish to take that time to build a business and to build legacy and show your children how to do it, too? Or is it actually the most selfless thing that you can possibly do? And the the only thing that's going to be the variable in that is how you translate what people are going to say about you based off of their scripts and how they're raised. We're never going to be able to change what people think of us. The only thing we can do is change our lives. >> So, this just happened. I can't believe you brought this up. somebody from our last uh weekend VIP mastermind. I did the follow-up calls with everybody and she said, "Hey, I really want to thank you for plugging me into these new people from the group from that weekend because I went home and I stood up for my boundaries and I announced my new goals and a bunch of people gave me push back and that would have absolutely derailed me before. But instead, you know what I did? I called two other people from the VIP weekend and they kicked me back in the game and I realized these are my new friends and they see where I'm going and the old people don't see where I'm going." It's that simple. It's that simple. And speaking of guys, it's over half full. If you want to come to our next VIP weekend mastermind where not only do we mastermind on your business in person in our home in a tiny group for two days, but you also get to be on both of our podcasts because we record in our home studio while you're here. So, it's half mega exposure. It's half brilliant strategy. It's one of the greatest things that we've ever done. And not only is it half sold out, but the early bird discount goes away in just over a week. From when you're hearing this, you got less than a week left to be able to get the early bird discount. So, if you want to come to our home in midocctober, you have to get your tail over to chrisarter.me/we and grab one of those spots so you can be in our home, be masterminding with us, and be on our podcast to get all that exposure. That is chrisarter.me.me/we. chrisard.mewe. Literally, get over there right now. Grab your seat. >> I mean, the exposure alone is worth the price. We've had our people from our last event say that. And we also had somebody just get booked on a much larger show because they said that they were on the earn your happy show. >> That was the best part. They're like, "Oh, I've been on Earn Your Happy." And then the big show is like, "Oh, you have? Okay, you can be on ours." >> I'm so excited that that is happening. And we knew that would happen. That's why we are doing it. So, >> so chrisarter.me/weend. Come to our home. and I can't wait to meet some of you guys in mid-occtober. >> We would love to spend that time with you and move your business forward and plug you into this community. So you guys, thank you so much for listening and we will talk to you next week. >> Love and appreciate you. >> Bye everyone.