Hey everybody, it is finally here. We just opened enrollment for the Bliss Habit, the elevated series. So, this is for any woman who is ready to take their life to the next level. This is all about owning your bliss, rocking your bliss, and going after your goals, and getting what you desire. So, if you're as excited as I am, and you should be because this program is truly changing lives, if you were on Bliss One or you heard anything about our very first Bliss series, there were so many women who not only learned so much about themselves and changed their old stories and broke those old habits that were holding them back, but they implemented all of the tools so that they could get to where they want to go. So, what is the Bliss Habit? The Bliss Habit is an incredible course that I've poured my heart into, and it is a weekby- week transformational course that every single week you get a new lesson, you get guided meditations, you get exercises, you get video lessons, you do weekly vlogging, you get access to a community. It is every single week you're learning something new. You're breaking it down. You're applying it. You're talking about it. You're journaling about it. You're busting through anything that is holding you back. So, it's six lessons to move you forward from the beginning of your transformation through to the end. And you just let that take hold in your life. If you do this, you will see massive transformation. You will feel the shift. You will feel different. you will understand who you are, where you're going, what you're about, and what your passion is. The Bliss Habit to me truly is clarity. So, you will gain clarity on the elevated series, and you will understand where you're going and you will know the steps on how to get there. So, most courses like this that are equivalent to this course have been $500. I've seen courses for thousands of dollars that are like this. But I really want all of you, I want the masses who need this to be able to implement this, to be able to take this course. So we are retailing this for $149. But for a limited time, I want to offer this to you guys for $79. So, for $79, if you sign up immediately, you are able to take this six-w weekek lifechanging ecourse with thousands and thousands of women. And you just completely reached out to this network of people who want to support you, who want to elevate you. We want to get to our goals together. So, don't miss this community of women moving forward. We're all in this together. I'm so incredibly excited to have you in the Bliss Habit, the Elevated Series community. And we we're going to get to our goals. We are going to make this happen. And I can't wait to have you. I can't wait to see you. Go to loriehearter.com. The cart just opened right now. And I'm so excited to get started with you. Bye-bye.