Being in your 40s is scary because you do feel like I should have made it by now. I should be this. You know, there's all these tapes you run in your head. It is a lot because you just think you're supposed to be somewhere else and so much is changing. You're faced with a big choice of how you going to live out the second half of your life. Like if you're disappointed with things, are you going to continue on and be sad and depressed and think that this is it or you going to give yourself a rebirth? Those are the only choices. Julia, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Oh, thanks, Lori. Thanks for having me on. I'm excited to talk to you. Oh, I'm so excited to chat. You are a wealth of knowledge and you've done so many different things. I actually had so much fun reading through your bio um and just studying for having you on the podcast. And one of my favorite things that I'm already like getting to learn about you and sense about you and that I feel like I want this whole podcast to be around is your ability to take risks, your what sounds like a having a lot of amazing audacity. Um and just you know the different things that I wrote down you have won entrepreneurs most daring. I feel like that's like one of the best awards ever. Um fast company's most creative and retail you also got retail innovation of the year like this. Let's just let's dissect the brain within that. But I want to ask you do you think that you were born with more risk tolerance than others or where do you think that came from? Well, I mean both of my parents were artists, okay? >> And my father made his living as an artist. He had his own art and design studio. And that by its nature is a creative endeavor even though it's a business. It was a business you know he did work for um buyer and coler and Chevrolet and the old studaker so big firms. So I think that mentality of creating is absolutely I part of my DNA and I mean I grew up in a time where we all had motorcycles when I was a kid. I had that was like one of our my dad's like oh here we're all going to ride dirt bikes and then I would drive it over to my girlfriend's house and her dad was an undertaker and he would say he had the local funeral home. He'd say those are my best customers. like, >> "Oh my gosh." >> And I'd take off on it. So, I think it's a combination of the art background and then having motorcycles. We had go-karts. We, you know, we were always doing things that probably he wouldn't do now for a person who's, you know, we, my brother was riding one when he was 10, unless they were out in a track with a helmet. I don't even remember us wearing helmets, which is insane. Um but the other thing which I when you know looking back at my career which I find interesting I had to make my own way. I didn't um basically when I got out of college my parents were like okay you're done have fun make your money. And if anything I was the one helping out my sisters with money and at one point my father got into a situation. So when I look back, I'm like, I was taking these risks, >> but I didn't have a safety net. >> So that's a little insane, you know? It's a little insane. I just finished Barry Deller's book, which is great, called Who Knew? And he's a consmate risktaker, but he makes it clear throughout the entire book he never had to worry about money. And I was always worried about money. But I think also um the value of my parents was they always said to me, "You're smart. You can figure things out." And I think the combination of having creative parents who love, especially my dad, loved to have fun. He loved to play. And then having that embedded in me as a child, I mean, very early on, they would say, you know, what do you think? You're smart. you can figure things out. >> And I think those two things because when I look back, I'm like, wow, it could have gone terribly wrong, you know, because I didn't have a safety net. If I fell, it would it, you know, I would fall through. So, you know, that was pure hutzah. It was just pure guts, I guess. >> What would you say looking back? Can you pinpoint maybe you know I I think as like ages like 12 to I don't know even like 17. What were some things that you felt if you can remember that were like confidence builders for yourself where you're like oh I can I can like rely on myself. I can count on myself. Well, I mean, Lori, I had a situation when I was eight. Um, and it got worse when I was 16, but my mother ended up I'm the oldest of four, and my mother um ended up in the hospital, and they said she was dying when I was eight. >> She didn't die. She was misdiagnosed, but then she got really bad when I was 16. But at the age of eight, my father looked at me and said, "I'm going to really need to rely on you." I was the oldest of four. >> Wow. So then the next um child was four. So I was eight, then there was a four-year-old, then there was a two-year-old, and then there was a newborn. >> Wow. >> And I think that taking on that responsibility at an early age. And then my when I was 16, my mother was properly diagnosed after a series of of really troubling health incidents where they couldn't figure it out. And she had multiple scerosis. Mh. >> And then sadly it got, you know, her life got progressively worse because she had such a bad attack. She had um an intermittent form of it, but she had such a bad incident that it got worse. So I would say having that hardship at a young age where you felt like you had to step up um also informed my teenage years and and high school years. I mean, high school was hard because we did move school systems. >> And so, you know, I had the whole mean girl situation, but I also had a couple really good friends that I'm still friends with, but I really did have a serious mean girl situation. And one of my old high school boyfriends, when my father died came to his funeral, and my father died about five years ago, so I hadn't seen him for ages. And he said to me, "Do you remember?" and he was on he was like the star football player at the time. He said, "Do you remember how none of the girls would talk to you?" And I said, "Yes, >> you're like, "Yeah, I'm still traumatized." And then he said, "None of the cheerleaders would talk to him." And I'm like, "Oh, I'm sorry. That really was a hardship." Um, so you know, but having um all right, if you just put those three things together, being told you're smart at a young age, >> then taking on a big responsibility, you know, and feeling the weight of it even at when you're eight forward and then um and I was smart in school, so I did well in school. I think that even got me through the mean girl stuff because um I felt you know what honestly on some level I felt sorry for him because they didn't know me. I mean I was like I came into a new school system when I was a freshman in high school and I and I didn't have any history and it I mean it was really bad at times. Um, but I'm like, well, they don't know me. And luckily, I had some grounding before that and I had responsibilities at home. And then I was dating the star football player. So, who made it who made all that mean girl stuff worse, you know? >> Yeah, absolutely. >> So, wait, I have one more high school story which is sort of funny. Um, and not funny, but it it was actually a positive. So when I was a sophomore, I was homecoming queen, which made everything else worse, right? So you have all that drama going on, but there was one kid who's now or I or was ended up being a judge in Chicago. I don't want to give his name because I did talk to him about it at one point. And he said came up to me in a very um sort of matterof fact way. And he said, "You know, you're cute, but let's face it, you're not beautiful. So let's make sure you keep those grades up." like he was acting like my dad or something and he was my age. His name was Stuart. I won't give his last name. And when you think about I still remember I remember that so clear. And I remember I burst out laughing. It didn't affect me negatively. I'm like, "Okay, Stuart, I got this. I'll keep that. I'll keep going. I'll keep learning." Can you imagine though? Some kid I told him to that he goes, "Oh my god, I was such a pompous ass in high school." Anyway, >> did you remember it? Oh, he did remember. He >> did remember. >> Yes, because I think probably something in his, you know, high school brain thought >> that first of all, I did laugh. So, at least, you know, I didn't cry. Thank goodness. And, you know, something in his high school brain was like probably thought it was wrong even after it came out of his mouth, you know. But, um, yeah, those things all informed me, I would say. Mhm. All these little It's interesting though because all of these things could have happened to someone else and they they may not have obviously turned them into what you turned them into. So where do you think you started to look at them and like did you extract the lessons right away? Were you like okay this is happening for me or at what point did you realize like wow all of those things actually did happen for me? you know, when you're young and your mother's ill that take took a lot of your psyche. You couldn't really have time for the other type of things. >> And then I would say the be you two things through a lot of another things. My father did start his own business. He loved his work, loved it >> and that informed me. I loved learning. This is another thing I do remember coming home in grade school and saying, you know, kids don't like smart kids. And my mom and dad sat me down and said, "Well, what are you gonna do about it?" I said, "I'm going to keep learning. It's fun." So, I loved learning. Um, he loved his work. And I think that was enough because look, there was a lot of drama with her illness and then um and it and it wasn't well understood. So we did have this very negative thing happening in the background and then she became quite uh really self-medicated with alcohol. So like everything sort of got grim and you know to think that she was dying. So, I would say I didn't really have much of a mother from the age of about 10 um on because of her health issues, but I had a strong father and that all I knew that I knew that going forward and also, you know, when you're a kid and you're looking around and this was a long time ago, but we're sort of getting sadly reversing on these things and you see your father loving his job and you see your mother's friends not loving their life necessarily and not having um their own money or having their own careers. And when you get older, you realize some of their husbands were having affairs with other people in the neighborhood. You know, when you're in your teens, those things come out sometimes. And then you see sort of these women who had never worked and charted their own way having a really hard time uh because they have to make hard decisions. Stay with someone who cheated on them but then they don't have a skill set. They're still raising their children and all of that was apparent to me in my teens. So I would say I knew I wanted to work. I loved I again I had a person in my life my father who loved his work and found it very fulfilling and creative. Um I also saw life was tenuous with my mother's illness. Can you imagine at 28 years old having four children the one who was you know basically nine months old and saying you know being told you're dying. I mean this happens obviously every day but you know their their life was and my oh the other thing is my dad had just started his own business that >> he was a year older than her and started it about six months before she went into the hospital. So here so he's trying to get his business going. His wife is comes out of the hospital but still isn't right. And I would say all of that soup just gave and watching women who didn't have their own work and didn't have their own life. All of that pushed me to be who I was and really and the the safety net thing when I look back is pretty odd because if I wouldn't have figured things out like I was told I could I you know who knows what would have happened. And look, you know, it's still hard for women and it's still hard for women to get ahead. So, I think I just just like nobody's going to stop me. It was just like, you know, resilience and wasn't fear though, but it really was resilience and also loving. I loved the tech world. I mean, I love it. I I joined it early. And when you were in good companies doing something super cool and solving really good problems, you felt it was exciting, it was new, it was evolving so quickly, everyone was on a learning curve. And because it was such a young industry, it provided tons of opportunities. >> And not until I got to my late 40s did I go, "Oh, looks like my ride's over. I had a good ride." But, you know, uh that's when I had to figure things out. Really figure things out. >> I love your timeline, too. Like, there's, you know, I'm in my mid40s right now, and so many women are like, I should be further ahead. I should be this. I should be that. I'm like, I I get it. And also, I feel like we're just gathering all the life experiences now to start doing some really big things in our lives or to start thinking about them. So, I absolutely love your timeline, which we'll talk about, but let's go. I would love for you to think back to what was the first big risk that you took in your career that maybe you didn't even realize was a big risk because you do have a much higher risk tolerance because of the things you went through and how you were raised. But what would you say to the outside world was a first big like leap or risk that you went for? >> Well, I'll tell you the one that was told to me that I was really making a dumb move. All right. and and um I started my career at Clorox in brand management and I was the second undergraduate they had ever hired and it was a great learning curve. >> But my for this is a little bit of a lot but my former boss's wife um I had a great boss. My first boss was a guy named Tom Lef Fever at Clorox and he left after about three years to join a startup. His wife then called me about another startup called software publishing which was one of the first software companies. I was probably 24, 25, maybe 25. And they asked me to take a salary cut, a big one, almost half of my salary cut. And it was like a commute of about 45 miles. So, and I thought, "This is the future. I'm going to do it." And I went into the general manager's office at um because I resigned to HR and my boss, but then the general manager of the division I worked at at Clarks wanted to meet me and he had one of those scary doors that you read about with Matt Lowauour, you know, where you press a button, there's no door handles. He had one of those out. >> So he would press a button and the door shut. There were no there was no way you were leaving while that because he controlled the door. Um, so he had one of those and he I walk in, it's the first time I'd ever met with him alone without my boss in the meeting because we certainly met with him regularly. But he said, "You know, you're making the biggest mistake of your life." >> And he said, "I could raise the price of Clorox Liquid Bleach by half a penny and make more revenue than that company will ever make." And he then said, "I'm never gonna work with people that are as smart as I met at Clorox ever again." >> And he also said, "And you decided to take a cut." So they obviously I' been like, "Oh yeah, I'm taking a cut and you're taking a cut in salary to do this." And he said, "You know, when you leave here, there's no coming back." And I remember looking at him and saying, "But I'm I can make these mistakes. I'm young." >> Wow. >> And but I also I mean I was hyper aware of what I was leaving. But I was also hyper aware that when I looked up above me at the time and you know this was a long time ago, there were no women above me. There was no one that looked like me in jobs. The one person who had been a brand manager that was great. There were a lot of brand managers that were women, but no one made it past that >> and that's that was my next move to because I'd already been promoted >> and so twice. So then it was the next job would be a brand manager. Now they bring people in at that level, but here they had a program anyway. And the when my most brilliant brand manager I'd ever met, when she was ready for a promotion out of that job, they put her in HR. And I'm like, that's not what I want to do. I want to run a P&L. >> Um, but I did go down there. I never even worried about this company succeeding, this small company. It got to it did go public. I got to about $600 million. and they introduced the first presentation package um which was Harvard graphics which PowerPoint then copied. All right. So they did we did some really really cool things but you know I did leave the safety of a large company with a great training program >> to jump into this other world. Um, I would say even so I was cognizant of it, but I did think I can make mistakes. I'm young. >> Mhm. I mean, that's a pretty from every story that you've told, there was just massive self-awareness and also selfrust, which is huge. So, you were talking about that in your 40s, like you had a nice ride with all of these different companies and all the experience that you got. So tell me about that moment of deciding to go on your own and what that was. >> So I had been the CEO of a company called Pets.com that I shut down during the dot boom and had had so much negative press personally. The company got negative press. I still get asked about it because we had the this sock puppet, the pets.com socket puppet, which I have one of the original ones here at my house still. Um, and like right around the corner. Anyway, the world was I mean it was harsh and they were harsh on any company that started then and fail, but Pets.com became the lightning rod. And I believe because we had a brand with a with a, you know, this little mascot that was sort of taking over and the world had changed where founders were now considered not just people that the venture capitalists wanted to get behind. Usually they wanted to replace a founder with a professional CEO type. And I'd been a CEO twice before Pets.com. So I was a CEO faster than most people. One was with a company called Berkeley Systems that had the flying toaster and the game you don't know Jack and that was sold. The next was a movie site a precursor to Netflix that only sold movies called real ree.com that was sold. Then I went on to pets.com and that was shut down. So I would say no one in the industry wanted to hire a person who had a big failure behind them on pets. someone that the press would talk about like, "Oh, look where this person ended up." And there was an age discrimination and then really venture capital firms had decided that companies without their founders were going were floundering and the we're going to work to make the founder a better CEO than bring in a professional leader if the founder wanted to do it. All of those things combined meant I was unemployable. And so then and and a recruiter told me that to my face. You're like, "No one's going to give you a job anymore, so get over it, you know." And so then I had to figure out really what I was going to do. And I was I mean, I was working a little bit. I would say at the age of 52 is when I'm like, I got to figure this out because I've I'm gonna run out. And I had had a divorce by then. So, I'm going to run out of money, >> you know. And it was uh then I figured that I would place a bet on myself. I would give myself two years to see if I could make it successful, but I also put my house on the market, which was my biggest asset. I only had two years of cash in the bank. >> Wow. >> But my house was paid for. So, I'm like, I'm going to put the house on the market and figure it out. So you kind of put yourself in a no safety net situation. >> Once again, I know >> we know you operate good in that though, you know. I I I can relate to that pretty >> Oh, yes. >> Yes. Yes. Um and I >> that's not where you want to be. >> That's where you want to be, but it sure can be powerful. Sometimes it's really easy to get comfortable in what you know. like it sometimes, you know, there's this like level of discomfort that you are so used to, but because you're just sort of comfortable, you can stay there forever. So, it gets interesting like having to almost almost recreate for yourself discomfort to like grow again, you know? Um, so I I love that story. Okay, so we have two years. you have two years on the clock and what are the questions you start asking yourself around what you're going to start next and what is coming to you? >> So, I knew I wanted to do another e-commerce business because I loved it. I absolutely loved it. >> And then it was analyzing what Amazon could do and couldn't do and putting together a matrix and I had lots of ideas. I kept exploring them and one of them which I was convinced I'll never do is luxury. But I also thought I'll never do a luxury brand. I'm not going to create my own luxury brand. >> Right. >> So, all right. So, this whole like shock realization was August of 2010. Then now it's November. I'm shopping with a girlfriend in a boutique. I have no ideas. I'm not panicked yet. I should have been, but I figured no something will come. Um something I'll figure you know I still but I really I should have been panic and I would have advised someone if I was advising them. You should be panicked now. You should be anyway I'm shopping with a girlfriend and uh it's a little boutique down in Milo Park. It was full price in the front. They sold shoes called Headover Heels. in the back. It had this beautifully merchandise area called the vault and it was all consignment >> and it was all luxury brands and that's where my friend shopped. Her name is Ann Wimblelad. So here's an who, if people have ever heard of her, she's very wealthy venture capitalist, very successful and she goes right to the beautiful things at a great price. I'd never seen her walk in a consignment store before, ever. So when she completed her transactions, we got out, I started questioning her because I'm like, you know, have you ever shopped in a consignment store? No. Would you ever shop on eBay? No. She said, I would never do that. Too many fakes. I don't want to deal with someone on price haggling either. Have you ever consigned? No. It's too hard. I'm like, well, you just bought consignment. How do you feel about that? She goes, I got a great deal. Are you kidding me? >> And that's it. I'm like, that's my luxury entrance. And I thought, so I kept questioning her and sadly she drove so she had to hear me all the way back. It was quite a ways to get home. And um and then I called the owner of the store the next day who was a female who had been in tech before and decided she wanted a brickandmortar store and she was raising a daughter. So she didn't get back to me for quite a while. She couldn't, you know, it was also going into the holidays. But between that time in November and March, the beginning of March, I had a name. I had a business. I actually went to a friend and took out a second mortgage on my house. I had some money to get started. And I'm like, I'm going to do this. I'm going to like make it happen. But it was that light bulb going on. And I'm like, this is great. And the structure is the structure of the Real Real now for the consigner. We're going to make it easy. So here's my friend who had never and who had never consigned before. She had boxes of luxury product in her house. >> Wow. >> And she'd sometimes give them to her sister, but mostly her sister. They were different sizes, you know, different taste. And so, you know, went to her, went to friends, started getting consignment. She said it was way too hard. I'm like, well, then we're going to pick it up, right? And also, we're not taking everything. We're not going to be we are going to be luxury focused. So, we're going to take it up. We're going to take the brands that have the highest resale value. >> So, that I knew we're going to have a service for the consigner and this had never been done before. All right. With a basically a sales team. Number two, I knew we had to set the price because the internet marketplace is always going to be smarter than the individual and the individual pricing is never going to have the same information that you will on a corporate aggregated level. So, I knew we were going to set the price based on sell, you know, the best price for the consigner, but also fastest sell through. >> Um, I knew we were going to have a sales team for the consumer. I knew we had to authenticate and we had to get started right away with that. It had to be an authentic product we're selling and I knew we'd take returns. M >> um so that was the structure of the business which meant I need AI needed a warehouse and also I knew we had to make consignment cool which by the way people forget the real real was the one to make it cool and we did that intentionally and but I also knew I'm not cool so I couldn't make it cool I needed a really good merchant that knew how to make things look contemporary to mix what was now whatever style was to make it look like it it whatever you're buying from a consigned business like us, you could mix it in and make it look contemporary, make it look on trend, put these things together. And that was Rotty Levette, who's now CEO. So, she was the first employee. And she had a brickandmortar store. She was in her mid early 20s, maybe late late um probably 24, 25, I don't know. She was young. and um she was getting ready. She shut her stores down to her one store to join me as the merchant. But we did everything and we started in my house. I moved all the furniture to the side. I had to move my uh the guy who I was living with to the side. That didn't work out very well. He ended up bailing. And I mean that was probably that was definitely for the better anyway. But um we started in my house and then I got a our first warehouse before we shipped our first product which was in June. So it went from getting the inspiration in November, finding a way to get funding and then I was raising money by the way. So I had even more money by June and shipping in mid June and it was Ratchy and I and like an intern and I think that was it to get started and then a friend who would drop in and just help us. >> Wow. >> I know it was insane. And but I I knew our first sale was I knew once we had our first sale everything sold out in like 20 minutes. It was gone. and we only had 30 items on the site. It was just gone. >> Wow. So, what do you think? You know, women are always told to think big, but what do you think what do you think that you did within that or what do you think are the moves that women need to be thinking of with their business? Like how how' you >> I wish women would think big, you know? Um there's an article circulating that I got a copy chat GPT when asked how many women that they know about obviously. So this was through chat GBT have have with that are not celebrities have built a business over a billion dollars. >> There's only 11 it found 11 of us. >> Wow. >> All right. Come on. That is bad. And some of the people were co-founders though they weren't a single founder. So if you think about that it's like come I mean now if you add celebrities in it's much bigger but if you do it the you know the way where people don't really know who you are. So here's what I think women need to do it. First of all you have to want to build this because it takes and your values have to be aligned. The beauty of doing it when I did it at my age, sadly I'd been through a divorce, but you know that that urge to get married and have children was sort of past me, you know. So that that period is hard on women. Now I was and my mother sadly had passed. All right. So I didn't have my parents to take care of. I did did later with my dad, but was pretty self-sufficient in the end. So I had this time and by the way we didn't have children when I was married. Um I went through that whole time in my 40s like should I should I not what and because we got a divorce when I was 42 and I'm like ah this is the worst you know so it so I had to figure that out but then once I was comfortable like no I'm not going to be a single mom on purpose I didn't have those outside pulls that are real and really important. So my and I didn't have a safety net. So I had to figure something out, but I was also all in. So my my values were aligned. My timing was aligned. The beauty of being healthy in your late 40s and 50s, I was more mature. I was more focused. I had more things to draw from. And I had contacts in the venture capital world. In order for me to leverage those contacts, I had to think big. I couldn't bring them a small business idea that wasn't fundable, you know. So then it comes down, what market are you serving? Is it big enough? Can you build a billion dollar business? Now, right now it's AI crazy here and people are raising billions of dollars, but that's not normal. Normally it's like you go there, you get a lot of rejections. you're if you're lucky you raise a million in seed or two million in seed and then maybe you get around for 10 million but it's all hard one but no one's going to give you money if your idea isn't big enough >> and I was comfortable in the venture capital world raising developing a pitch and raising and I why don't women do it there's systemic reasons there's val there's timing reasons there's natural bias I think against them. I think it's harder. I if it was if it was equal then women there wouldn't be 10 of us that have done it. You know, this is probably a US bias. But um if it was equal, there would be more women wanting to. But I think it's cultural, it's societal, and I also think there's not enough stories out there. So people >> y >> need to sort of see themselves you know and feel like oh if that person can do it I can do it >> you know the more stories you have out there which is something that you can you're bringing forth that people can overcome this sometimes you just need to hear you can do it and then you can say okay because look I didn't go to Harvard I didn't go to MIT I'm not like a bro you Oh, and I raised money in my 50s and I did it in my 50s. So, and I took a company public from an idea in my kitchen to going public, which something like only less than 2% of all companies do that. >> So, but I'm not I mean, yes, I'm special because on you know, luckily I had some things in my childhood, but people have all that inside of them. >> Yeah. I think we need to find the stories because I I if you can't see it, you literally can't be it because it's not within your like realm. And honestly, I um I'm just so resonating with your story and I'm trying to figure out what has made me also raise money and start a company because that was not in my world. But it became possible to me when I started hanging out with different men who then also introduced me to different groups of women. But I had to sit at the tables and like learn and hear. >> And I think what's really powerful about your story is, you know, you were talking about you were one of the only women in a lot of the places that you were at. And I think women get intimidated by that, except you got let in on conversations that have now allowed you to like negotiate different things or understand what that looks like to raise money from, you know, VCs. And I think we just like you said, it's getting stories like this out there having to be able to have access to those conversations is what will change the game. And I think so I I think we're just at the very beginning where the women doing it like we want to help those other women, but we're still trying to make our companies work. And so it's like we we equally as women have a really huge responsibility. It's like we we're supposed to be successful in these companies we've never really done yet or like had a lot of help in. and also bring the conversation back to the other women at camp, you know, like and like bring them into it. So, you couldn't be more right was like it's we have to be having these conversations so other women can see it. Otherwise, it just feels too scary to even ask questions about. And I get that. That's how I felt for a really really long time. But I love love love your story because you were in your you're in your late 40s and 50s when you started asking this. And so I think so many women there's still just this incredible amount of time to go and start something that you love and that you can do and that you can pour yourself into. >> I also I do want to give I mean remember I talked about in Wimblelad who I was shopping with. Look I was at the company Berkeley Systems and I was VP of sales and marketing when I came in >> that company just looked like it was going to fail. >> All right. And you just that would have been my first big failure. And also I had done a stent uh with software publishing and another company and I lived overseas for six years which was amazing and ran international which is a whole another fabulous thing opportunity that I embraced when it came to me. I'm like I've got a password. I'll do it. But what that meant was it took me out of the US and what was happening in the US and sort of the heartbeat of companies and I wasn't networking. So now I get back to the states and I get this opportunity at a company called Berkeley Systems and it was uh unbeknownst to the board and when Bled was on the board it was about ready to fail >> big time and I did what happened was this is back when you had to sell into retail software >> it wasn't downloadable they had shoved a lot of product in the channel that had no pull through. >> So even though they had reported a great quarter, I think something like 80% of it was coming back the first quarter of the next year. And that was my first time. That was right when I started the job, >> which which put them in a serious cash flow situation. >> And um the good news, I had a great CFO to work with. And the the founder was a tech guy, really smart, visionary tech guy, but he had didn't know what to do and the company's failing. So I worked with the CFO and we put together a plan. I presented to the board of here's how we can turn this company around and here's the steps that we need to take. Then they're like, okay. The next the next day I get a call. Well, we had our meeting and by the way, the founder and his wife, which was kind of weird, were both on the board and uh and the investors, well, we had our meeting and we want you to run it and you're now the president. Do you want to do it? And I'm like, okay, >> okay. >> Um, and I was so kind of shocked because I thought, what are they? I mean, who knew what they were going to do? because I basically said, "All these mistakes were made, you know, in this last year. Here's how we get out of it. Here's what we need to focus on going forward." And um and then they called and they like, "Okay, you're president." And I when I was driving home that night, >> then I was still married. Instead of taking my turn, I almost went, it's like, if anyone knows California Highway 80 and I was on the East Bay, I almost went to Sacramento before I realized that. I'm like, cuz I'm thinking, I'm driving. I'm like, you know, am I ready for this? Can I do it? And I get home and this is before cell phones. My husband's like, "Where have you been?" I'm like, "I don't know. I don't know where I've been." I was almost I was like almost two hours ago. >> I was thinking >> I was I was just thinking and driving the American thing we do. Yeah. Anyway, um but my life got easier doing that, turning that company around and it was and but they they including the founder and an gave me that opportunity and then I started to raise money for the company for the next round and then they made me CEO and that you know stepping offered the opportunity stepped up for the opportunity and then found it to be easier here because I knew what decisions needed to be made and I didn't have to convince the founder. The founder I had to like talk to him about it but it was like my decision >> and it was absolutely better. Absolutely. >> Okay. What I love about that story is you literally created the perfect position for yourself by being brave enough to take a risk to like pitch and say this is where you're going wrong and this is how to save it. A lot of people wouldn't have necessarily thought that or done that. And you propelled your career forward in something that you were great at. Like you literally got to stand up and show what you could be great at and therefore create a position for yourself. Where do you think women go wrong in like trying to get to the next level or scaling their business? Well, scaling is a whole different story, but I think that um look, there's so much push back and if you if you get sucked into the negative part of um being an entrepreneur, which is always hard, and I think lonely, I mean, people don't talk about that a lot, but it's lonely being an entrepreneur and you think you're faced with problems that no one's had before or they're uniquely your problems. You really need to sort it out. And there's not a lot of female entrepreneurs. There's not a lot of entrepreneurs, but there certainly aren't a lot of women uh women women entrepreneurs. So, you know, I think where they get stuck is a lot of they spend too much time caving into the opposition, which is monumental. It could be bias against funding. It could be the bro culture. It could be their other women prince are like, "Why is she doing this?" you know, like there maybe she's getting some shade from her other friends if she's had some success. You never know. But there's enough negativity that it can take you down. And it's also exhausting. I mean, it can be physically exhausting if you're really trying to build something. It it can also I'm not talking about there's so many positives but you know it can be exhausting because I mean I would come home and I write about this in my book time to get real. We should get that in there. Um but I would come home from pickp pack and shipping in our little warehouse and answer customer service calls and fall asleep and wake up with like pencils pens stuck in my face because I'd fall asleep on my counter >> doing that. Um, so you need a lot of energy to start a company. Scaling is a different thing. Then you need the right people, the right market because some markets you can't scale in. So you need to really make sure there's an oper right market, the right positioning. Then you need great people, great processes, and usually capital. >> But all those other things are before the capital. Those all have to be aligned. And then there's timing because the world could change and your business plan your business that was so great could be obsolete. I mean that's happening now with AI. Youther people change or they die. So you know all of those things have to be right. That's a lot. But clearly people get it right all the time. >> But it's like out, you know, my story with Pets.com. The company that actually wanted me to run Pets.com also founded a company called Home Ger and they did Napster. So, what are those? What happened? If you fast forward 20 years, you've got Chewy.com. You've got Instacart, all right, which is home ger and webband combined. And you've got Apple Music, which looks a lot like Napster did at the beginning, even though the the money's worked out. So, all of those things. So, what was their problem? Timing. So timing has to be right. What was my problem with pets.com? Tim timing, >> you know, and so that's those are a lot of variables. That's why the other thing is which I had to learn if you fail and I really had to learn this because everything was, you know, go go until I did have the failure with pets and I internalized it like what did I do wrong? You know, you have to brush yourself up and get up again. You have to analyze what's right and what's wrong. And you can't let the negatives um the ne my negative of feeling really did overshadow me when I even look at pictures back then >> and I also got a divorce at the same time. But I look at pictures I'm like who is that person? >> That person's like internalized this too much. >> So you know I think you have to move. You have to figure out a way to brush yourself up and keep going. And that's not easy. I mean, it's really hard. And it's hard. I don't care whatever age you are. It's just hard. I now I'm going to say here's what I think if people have kids and especially young women, putting them in sports where you have a lot of opportunity to win and fail >> all the time is a great way to to have people deal with failure >> and understand that. Okay. but I'm gonna live on and play another game, >> you know, and that to me is a great tool. >> Um, and that's even even I had that in my arsenal because I was on the girls basketball team even though I'm tiny. I'm not very tall. I'm 5'2. Um, and and I've been I may even be shorter now, but I've been like 5'2. I think I was like born 5'2, you know, but I don't know. I've just always been 5'2. And but you know, we want a lot lost a lot. But even that lesson didn't carry me with pets. And I think um that's because also in your 40s it's scary. Being in your 40s is scary because you do feel like I should have made it by now and um I should be this. You know, there's all these tapes you run in your head. >> Yep. >> About what you should be. And then also um present company excluded because you look gorgeous. But you know then you at 40 in your 40s you're starting like oh I look old totally get it though like you're just like things are happening. >> Yeah. Yeah. And maybe you know menopause starts like parameopause sets in so you got a lot happening that didn't happen in your 20s and 30s and then you put a pressure on you and yourself. So so you run your own negative tapes. So, I think the 40s are the hardest for me. They were and I know a lot of people they are. >> I've I've literally been talking about that with so many people. It's it is a lot because you just think you're supposed to be somewhere else and so much is changing and so many of our parents are starting to get sick problems and then the kid everyone's, you know, then you have kids so you're dealing with both sides where you weren't necessarily before. >> Um it's a it's a lot. It's really interesting. And you're also you're faced with a big choice of how you going to live out the second half of your life. Like if you're disappointed with things, are you going to continue on and be sad and depressed and think that this is it? Are you going to are you literally going to give yourself a rebirth? Those are the only choices. That's all we got. So, >> you know, um this is named dropping, but uh well, maybe I won't name drop, but I was at and I was being honored by Parson's >> and there was a um person who later went on to be the creative director for Louis Vuitton >> um men's also being honored there and we took pictures together and I was dressed in a more of a you know gala dress, not too frilly but anyway and he's standing next to me in the in the in the pictures and his sweatshirt says you have to be born again >> and all right I'm gonna say it was forel it was forel and I thought that is brilliant >> and that you know you can take that in so many ways >> but you do have to sort of you have to rebirth yourself in a way you do >> and it's like I said you can take it on a religious way and a spiritual way and on a phys on a physical way and I think it applies on all I you know and you're given those choices as long as you're healthy that choice is always yours >> and some but you can't expect perfection either but that's your choice >> I believe in it so much this is my rebirth tattoo it's a phoenix just >> I thought it was >> yeah just from anything you know I anything that is like the fire anything that's like going to take you to the ground it's your opportunity to come back up. Like I just Yeah. I believe in it so much that those moments are just they're they're the opportunity for the rebirth. So if you're on your knees, if you feel like there's nothing left, if you're so unsure of the path, it's like that's the best time to be able to be somebody new. And I think that's exciting and I love that. So >> well one other thing that I think is really important during that time >> you also which I don't think you realize sometimes you've got everything inside of yourself >> already to recreate yourself your wisdom your internal wisdom is something that it if you allow it you know you allow your intuition to work your internal wisdom to bring forward you will be able to create something that's really healthy for yourself And you have to stop the negative tapes because they don't serve you. >> I I've said it 50 times on here, but I love your story because I think it's so important for people to hear about just the best is yet to come and your book. >> Yes. Time to get real on it because you we did not even you guys do not even understand the depth of the lessons that she has for you. I couldn't even touch on a tiny percentage of them on this podcast. So, you have to go and get her book, Time to Get Real. And I mean, learn all of the incredible lessons. Who would you say who would you say this book is for? Well, men and women are reading it, so that's good. I would say still primarily women. I would say any woman in the workforce or wants to be in the workforce or wants it's also a good read or loves fashion. So there's a lot about fashion in it too. But I would say anyone in the workforce it's probably helpful. Um because I'm even though I'm an entrepreneur it really is an entrepreneur story women in corporation read I'm like oh my god that was so helpful you just given me some tools. But it's not a it's not well you know right it's really talking about the journey of the real real so it reads more like yearon year what was happening and and I'm letting the reader in on how I was learning things or bringing past learnings forward like oh I need to start using this to help me make better decisions or to wake up because these other things are happening. So, sort of pulling out knowledge that I'd been taught in other jobs and bringing it forward. >> Oh, I love that. Julie, thank you so much for um just everything that you have shared on the podcast. Um and you can get the book wherever books are sold. Correct. >> You can one little thing, but it was amazing. Amazon picked it as one of the best books of 2025. So, >> oh my gosh, that's so exciting. >> It is exciting. It was a surprise. I'm like, "Okay, >> oh my gosh." Okay. Well, we are going to link everything up below on show notes. So, you guys, you don't even have to go far to look for the link to the book. You can literally just scroll down below and click it and it'll go straight to the book. Um, and definitely go and check it out because like I said, the we didn't even get to touch on all of the things that she has done and that you're going to learn in this book. And if you're like me, you do love fashion. So, it's a fun a fun way to learn through story. So, Julie, I'm so grateful for you. Um, thanks for coming on and sharing all of this. >> Oh, Lori, it's been an honor to be with you and thank you for the opportunity. >> Of course. Okay, you guys, make sure you share this with a friend and until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.