This episode of Earn Your Happy is sponsored in part by Shopify, Quint Open Phone, and Northwest Registered Agent. Turn your big business idea into cha-ching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. See why over 60,000 businesses trust Open. Open is offering my listeners 20% off of your first six months at openphone.com/earn. Don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregistered agent.com/earn. Let your bed match the season with cool, relaxed bedding from quint. Go to quint.com/happy for free shipping on your order and 365day returns. I'm in a place in my life right now where I'm not going to chase a friend or a girlfriend. And if I don't like who I am around you, I'm like, I actually can't do it anymore because I have to like me. Like, I have to like who I am. And that's an act of self- loveve, you know, thinking about in our lives, just small moments of self- loveve. Self- loveve is saying no. Hey everyone, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Don't forget that I have a coupon code for you for Glossy. Summer is coming and if you want to hydrate and feel freaking amazing, you should check it out. It is 25% off at getglossy.com. That's ge tg g l oci.com. You need to kick those old hydration sticks out of bed because this is so much more than just expensive salt and sugar. You guys, this is gamechanging for your skin, your gut, and your hydration. And if you only do one good thing for yourself a day, let it be this. So today on the show, I have the incredible Christa Williams. You guys, I got to meet her so many years ago. I think it was like eight years ago at a soul cycle class and her partner in this book and also on the Almost 30 podcast was Chris and I's soul cycle instructor for a few years, like two to three times a week. And she was absolutely amazing. Her name is Lindsay Simick. And I remember when Christa came to one of her classes and I had heard that they were like friends and they were starting a podcast together. And when I met her, it was like I instantly loved her. Her energy is so good. She's such a girl's girl. I was like, "This girl is freaking amazing." And so looking back on everything that they've done is so freaking impressive, you guys. So Crystal Williams is the co-host of the top health and wellness podcast almost 30, which has over 120 million downloads, you guys. That's nuts. She's a public speaker, retreat facilitator, and creator of Metamorphosis, a body transformation program, and the life edit a total life transformation. And get ready for this conversation because we talked about everything from her decision to freeze her eggs to navigating friendships and rediscovering her voice after divorce. We also talk a lot about the pressure of feeling like you need to arrive by a certain age and having these massive expectations on our timeline in order to feel successful. And we talk all about the messy middle of transformation. And I know you guys always love a good conversation about navigating friendships. And we get into how we both built friendships that have lasted and really talking about her version of a friendship audit. So if you've been questioning what's next, if you feel behind, this conversation is for you. And tag Krista and I on Instagram because we always love hearing if these conversations hit home. And you guys, I'm so grateful for you. So, let's get into the show. Krista, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for coming back on. Yes. Right. Wasn't that years ago? It was, I think, 2020. 20 2020 or 2021. 2019. 2019. It had to be cuz I feel like it was at my house. It was at It was at your house and then you came on ours at that time. And then I think for Tribe Called Bliss. Oh my gosh. were so much more mature and just grown women now. I I feel like I just care so much less. I feel like the way that I cared during that time was on a just a 10 and now I'm just like whatever, man. Isn't that the best? The best. Getting older is the best. It's the mo It's literally the most freeing. That's why. And it's really cool because now that I'm in my 40s, I've actually lost track of even like I I can't tell how old people are anymore, which is also weird because I'll like meet a 30-year-old and be like, "Do you want to hang out?" And they're like, "You're old." And I'm like, "What? Wait, what is going on?" My friends laugh cuz everywhere we go, we'll be out and I'm like, "How old do you think we are?" Like I'll talk to people like so if you if you just met us like how old how old do you think we are? Like 20, 30, 40. That's my like favorite question. Also, too, because I don't know if you're experiencing this, but I'll see people in the range of what people look like and how old they are. Like, some people will be 30 and they look 45. Totally. Some people be 45 and they look 25. So, there's just this weird thing happening where time is being bent or something, but no one looks like their age. We also live in California. I completely cuz when I go back to the Midwest, I'm like, "Oh, yeah. Got it." Yeah. No, same. I know. Well, I like I see my I see my people when I'm back home in Ohio. I'm like, "Yeah, that's what that age looks like." I remember I was in Mexico recently or I know I was somewhere recently on a trip and I was like, "Wow, this is what no plastic surgery world is like." I was like, "Whoa, you just get desensitized." 100%. You Yeah. You just think everybody has really full lips and long blondes here and I'm like, "Wow." Okay, gotcha. It's not like It's not like that everywhere. Okay. you have been writing a book meaning you have been on the book journey and the book journey is no joke like when people tell me they want to write a book I'm like do you do you really want to write a book because like you're number one you're not even going to make it to the end if you don't want to write a book because you have to really want it for so many reasons. Yeah. I think it's a lot like maybe I don't know this, maybe I will know this, but like motherhood where you're like, "Yeah, I want to have kids." And then you have kids and you're like, I didn't even understand what was going on. And writing a book is a whole process. And I remember people like you would tell us, you know, it's a thing. Are you guys ready? And you know, we felt ready. I feel happy about it. But I think what's applicable to the audience is just whenever you have a big project or something that you've really dreamed of that you're going for in life, how many things can come up in that process? And I think for us, I'm so proud of the book. It's better than I could have ever imagined. I'm so hard on myself and I just absolutely adore it. And whenever you're doing something where you're putting yourself out there, where you're being visible, you're being seen, you're using your voice, so much will come up for you, especially if you're a woman, so much fear, so much mindset stuff. So many of the voices and narrative. So, I've been really struggling to be honest mentally with kind of the conversations in my head and that inner critic and that perfectionist part of me that's really been very loud during this time when I know I'm expanding and growing. And so, the louder for me the fear is or the bigger the fear is, the bigger the uplevel opportunity. I know that this is such an uplevel opportunity. I know this is such a space for me to really step into, but when we're at that point, the voices are going to be the loudest. Okay, so what are some of the things? I know there would be some days I would write I had stints of where I would write so I was like oh this coffee shop is working for me thank god you know sometimes I'd write at home it wouldn't work at all like you just like hit walls you can't think of things so I remember these different points where I was going every day to this coffee shop and I heard this habit like just make your chair hit the back you know at like it's a habit like at 100 p.m. and then don't get up until like 4:00 or 5:00 p.m. And I'm like great and it sort of worked for me. It sort of didn't. But with that said, I remember some days coming home and being like, "Oh my god, I'm a genius. I'm the best writer ever," which was so rare, by the way. But then other days coming home and being like, "I have nothing good to say. I'm a total loser. Like, I'm a fraud and I suck. Like, I have no good stories." Like, it just feels like you have no good stories sometimes. I think that was something I'm really learning about in this process. I think cuz I work with speakers too and it's like we have so much gold inside of us, but we haven't taken the time to sit and mine and excavate. So for me, I was like I just I I don't think I have any interesting stories. I don't think there's anything interesting about my perspective. So so much of my process was like what are the defining moments of my life? What are the stories that seem mundane but are relatable? Often times speakers share stories that are very mundane but they're very relatable. You know it's like the simplest things. Bnee Brown as an example like many of her stories are very simple about family, very simple about the home but they're just very relatable and they hit on the point. And so I had to give myself so much permission in the process of like allowing myself to be okay with simple stories and being okay with simple things that really drive the point home but are my truth. But in the process of writing, you know, it's funny, and I don't know how I'm curious of how your promotion process was. The writing process for me was a joy. I had the best time sitting at home in my pajamas, being a little slob, you know, just not being bothered. No one's bothering them. I'm a little book slob. I'm just snacking. I'm hanging out. And I didn't force myself to write every day. I was the procrastinator. Our editor was like, "Yo, like I would be like, "All right, you have like 5,000 words." I'm like, "Cool. Give me a day." and I'd have to wait and I would just let it all come out and then move through it. So, I never force myself to do it. That's just not how I work. But what's been challenging for me where the mindset stuff has come up is on the marketing promotion. And I think you're so good at that. Like you're so good at networking relationships. Like that's such a beautiful skill of of yours. For me, I can go internally. I think I'm a genius. Again, I'm like, "Oh, yeah." But then when I have to go and ask for help or receive or, you know, put myself out there, that's where I get really stuck. And that's where I found the biggest challenge. So like what's going on in your head when you do that? Okay, here's a you did you got to be the book slob. You crushed it. Now you're like in the marketing portion. What is actually happening in your brain? So in my brain and I don't know if people can relate. I have this pre-disappointment syndrome where I'm disappointed before it already happens. Interesting. I have this part of me that is just already it already isn't working. It's already not going. You know, we knew it wasn't going to work kind of pre- disappointment. So that's one of them. And then it's also receiving. So many women have struggle with receiving. Struggle with first asking for help and then second receiving that help. And I think in the process of a book, it's fully about cashing in on the chips, on the relationships that you have, on the people that you've developed connections with. And you really, really, truly have to ask people for help. You have to be clear. You have to be upfront. And so being able to take time to do that has been really hard for me because normally I'm someone that's tries to give as much as I can or support other people or I just am not usually in the phase of receiving. So receiving has been challenging. And then I think third I have such big expectations for myself in my life and I think the people that I compare to are people that have been doing this for twice as long. You know have twice as many resources. I know you're we we probably compare to the same people to be honest but it's like you know you're just comparing yourself to people. Yeah. Literally. I'm like, everyone knows. I'm like, it's just people that are way ahead of me, and that's okay that they're ahead of me. It's it's fine. But I just find myself seeing that and just getting really disheartened with it. Mhm. Where do you think the expectation of already being disappointed like or it not working? Where do you think that came from? Have you sat with that? Yeah, of course. Yeah. I mean, that's the thing with me. I'm going to sit with it all. But yeah, that part of me it's a protective part. So, I practice something called internal family systems. psychotherapy technique. So I really work in parts. So whenever I'm talking about a feeling, I often pull it as a part. So there's a part of me that believes that to keep myself safe, I have to say that I'm disappointed already instead of having that expectation and being let down. Got it. So it perceives that it's easier to say, "Hey, it's not going to happen. Don't worry about it. We should just move on. It never happens." Instead of having the hope. Is it because it feels embarrassing in front of people if you don't hit it? Yeah, of course. Yeah. I would say embarrassing. I would say that there have been many moments in my life where I have hoped and it hasn't happened. And then I also think that it validates the belief that I'm not successful. So I think a lot of people have beliefs that they have that are limiting beliefs that are these, you know, neural pathways that exist in their mind that they had from a young age. One of mine is that I'm not successful. I have this belief that I'm not successful. And so to validate and confirm that belief in my reality, I will be disappointed in advance. So oftentimes with these beliefs, we want to validate it in our reality. The belief is so strong that instead of the conscious mind being like, I want to be successful, we truly want to validate that. So I think I just believe I'm not successful to be to be honest. Did you Was there something growing up that it wasn't good to be successful or that it was really good to be successful? It was really good and it was never successful enough. Oh, interesting. Coming from like parents or all around you? Parents and all around me. That's how success was money, success was safety, success was being seen. And also on the other side of it, you know, there is a a really soulful spiritual part of me that came here for a mission. Like I'm here to do good. I'm here for God. I'm here for goodness and God. So there's also that part of me that desperately really wants to make my life meaningful and live a life of purpose and do big things and share whatever I'm being called to share by God. So that is the truth and that is the beauty of it. But then on the other side of it, the shadow side of it is that, you know, I desperately want to be successful for that thing. So there's kind of this like, you know, there's this kind of paradigm thing that can happen with people where they're like, I don't believe I'm successful, but I know I want to do good and I want to do big things. Okay. So this so this makes me think about how you feel about purpose. Yeah. Because purpose can be so like purpose can feel so connected to success. How do I see purpose? Oh my god. Let's go there. Okay. Yeah. Um, purpose to me now I think you create it all the time. I think you have to keep creating it till the day you die or you're going to die of not having a purpose. Like I just think that we have to wake up every day and create our purpose because I you know I I had an interesting trajectory of like growing up with nothing and then getting the wild ride of network marketing and exploding with network marketing going to having everything to like such an excess at a certain point in our life that we just at that point if we would have been crazy smart with our money we would have never had to work again. So that the reason I'm sharing that is because I got to a place where we could wake up and do whatever we wanted. And we did that for maybe oh my gosh we still didn't do it cuz we were still helping people like we didn't do whatever we wanted. But even just having a little bit to do every day was not enough to feel fulfilled. And I remember struggling in that period of my life that was like mid30s and going whoa there is like there is so much more to life than this and yet feeling like I couldn't be the vessel yet to like say that cuz I was in my mid30s but then having to un unpack and unravel all of what that meant because purpose is like you you truly have to come here and figure out how like what your gifts and how to use them every single day in a way that makes you feel fulfillment no matter what is coming in because it's really bizarre that you also like then you can get to a place in your life where maybe then you need money again or whatever that looks like. You have to find the driver of why you're going to fulfill these big purposes that I believe we have. Then you have to figure out the drivers in your life without getting so attached to the the meaning behind them, which is the whole thing is [\h__\h] up and amazing and beautiful. But I think that you're going to have, you know, depending on who you are. I feel like we're going to have 5, 10, 20, 30 different purposes. I think there's like a core I think there's core purposes, but then I think they're going to be in so many different arenas. Yeah, that is so beautiful. Clip it. Clip that. I like clip that. What about you? like where are you sitting right now when you think of purpose? So I believe we were born for purpose on purpose. I believe we have purpose and I believe the quest and conversation around purpose is one of the deepest spiritual questions we could ask like what are we doing here? Why am I here? And that is not a light question to think about that. And so I think the pain that people feel around purpose is so warranted and so valid. And for me, just my journey till where I'm here now was so painful around purpose. I was just driven insane by the desire to find my purpose and desire to find out why I was here. And it was something that caused me anxiety and depression. And when I found almost 30, I really felt like I found my purpose. And then you find that and then you realize that there's more purposes to be found. I think for me right now, what I'm really trying to do with purpose is I'm really trying to surrender as much as possible. I'm really, really, really deeply in a practice of trying to surrender for what God wants for me because I feel like I've lived many purposes. Teacher, healer, coach, podcast host, CEO, you know, but those are all like identities, you know, as part of it. And I think that there's like a true essence within us that's like our actual like reason. So your true essence could be like mystic rebel or like sacred heart or like earth angel or like something that's a little bit more spiritual and tender that's outside of identities and labels. And so I'm really trying to get to the core of like how can I surrender more to be more in service to something that's greater than me that's going to be more fulfilling to the world and more fulfilling to myself. Do you think people struggle with purpose? Because and you know I'm thinking of like myself and my journey as well. Do you think they struggle with purpose? Because I mean, life is it's it's hard out there for a lot of people. It's getting more and more expensive everywhere. It's hard to and I hate even saying the words hard, but like attaching our purpose to also money and making a living course. So those lines get really really blurred on like man you know I'd love to be living my purpose but I also need to be paying for these things or you know and then sometimes people um can get really confused because they attach their purpose to making money and all of a sudden you start to hate totally so-called purpose. Totally. So how have you have you struggled with any of those things as well? Yeah I think you know that's the thing it's almost like sometimes purpose and thinking about it's almost like a luxury. Mhm. You know, if you're someone that's working, so true. You know, if you're someone that's really struggling, you're working, you know, I'm from Ohio, like small town. If that's your life and you are working 60 hours a week, 80 hours a week, you're a truck driver, you're, you know, working at Starbucks, whatever. Like, you're not thinking about purpose. You're thinking about survival. And so, it is a gift to ponder the purpose. It is a gift to think about why we're here. And for anyone that you know is at the point where they're probably just getting by, purpose might not be the conversation for them because you need to be at a place where you're out of survival mode to think about like why you're spiritually here and sort of a mission beyond survival. You know, survival and or like the purpose is more like the thriving state of things. It's more like that next step. And I think we're really lucky in the west that we have so much brain space and opportunity and and luxury to think about why we're here and what we're doing. But I think for most people, they tie purpose to money. And it is true that if you're on your purpose, you'll make more money. But it doesn't mean that if you're on your purpose, money is going to be what you want. And I've found that the more spiritually connected I've been and the more whole I've felt and the more I've loved myself, I think less about purpose and I think more about alignment and I think more about peace and I think more about presence. Because I think when I think about purpose, I think about something outside of myself where I'm like, what is that? how am I gonna do this thing or how am I gonna, you know, fulfill this goal? But it's like right now I think this with the space that I'm in with my journey, I just need to really go inward to focus on how aligned I can be. So, what's feeling good for you right now? And I will let's we can also I'm I'm fully aware you're in book launch right now. Things feel to anyone who's not done it before. Yeah. You're there's no other way to say like you're you're on the playing field. You're in battle. Like you are literally in battle every day. Like how do I get this out? How do I make sure at the end of the day when my head hits the pillow, I feel like I left it all on the table? Like I did all the things that I possibly could to get this book out because you worked on it forever. Yeah. You work on it. It's it's like, you know, up till right now it's like your life's work. A lot of it is in there, your stories. So, it's important to push that out to the world and market it and do the things. But what are you feeling? if you could pull yourself out of where you're at. Yeah. What are you feeling is like what's the purpose for you right now? Like where are you feeling most called and what's bringing you the most fulfillment? I think I work with women. So my work is with women. You know, almost 30 is a community of women and then also with my retreats and my coaching and the programs that I do, it's with women. And I think what's really just keeping me up at night and something that I see with so many women is just this general lack of self-love and a deep desire to do more in life, to be more of who they are, to acquire all the spiritual knowledge, all the wellness knowledge, all of the things, but yet at the expense of loving themselves less. And I feel like I just so desperately want people to find peace and wholeness within themselves. And if that's going to be through parts work, if that's going to be through therapy, if that's going to be through healing retreats, that's going to be whatever. I think our whole life begins on the other side of accepting ourselves and like being okay with who we are and being at peace with who we are and having that peace within our bodies and then our mental health. So, I think I'm really just noticing that as a trend among women that are doing so much, that are burning themselves out, that are responsible for that are oftentimes breadwinners. A lot of the women I work with are breadwinners. You know, statistically speaking, Scott Galloway has really good work on this, but he talks about how women are now more college educated. They now are um out earning men. They're more emotionally intelligent than men, and they're sort of outpacing men in a lot of different ways. So, not only are they loving themselves less, but they're doing more. And it just is really this sort of thing that I'm really curious about and working with them on. and in desperate desire for these women that are doing so much for themselves in the community to like actually take a second to like love themselves a little bit more. That's such a and I I know it's the eternal question like well how do you like how do you love yourself and I love what you're doing with uh retreats because for me a lot of my journey of figuring that out which I'll be on it till I die by the way trust me trust me I have days where I'm like no I'm good oh my god I love it then the next day I'm like who is this troll hideous from the cave who does nothing yeah it's crazy um it's much I mean it's much better now but I'll tell you one of the biggest things that helped me was my girlfriends, my community. I feel like my friendships have been one of the biggest things that have helped me love who I am. It's almost like the more close friends that I have, the more I just stop like it's like I stop caring about the things I normally care about. They even make me feel more beautiful in a in a way that is not like specifically, oh, I feel more beautiful because of them, but because I'm around more women who I like who I am around. Yes. Like I'm in a place in my life right now where I'm not going to chase a friend or a girlfriend. And if I don't like who I am around you, I'm like, I actually can't do it anymore because I have to like me. Like, I have to like who I am. Yes. And that's and that's an act of self- loveve. You know, thinking about in our lives, just small moments of self- loveve. Self- loveve is saying no. Self- loveve is not pursuing a friend that's not pursuing you. Self- loveve is choosing to be in reciprocal relationships and friendships. And self- loveve is choosing to surround yourself with women that inspire you, that excite you, that love you, that see you, that like cheer you on. And I think so many women right now are in relationships with other women that maybe aren't fulfilling or maybe aren't inspiring or maybe aren't necessarily at the place that they want to be. But when you get to that point where you're in really amazing reciprocal relationships, I mean, that has healed me more than any relationship with a man. I was married, too. and my relationship with Lindsay as an example, like having someone that I've gone through really hard things with, building a business, dealing with money, being public figures, and being able to have conflict repair, you know, that's like I think for me, and I think for a lot of people, what builds relationships that are strong is not just gassing you up, not just like, you know, liking your Instagrams and sharing your stories. It's like actually being able to go through it with someone and be yourself as a sovereign being and being like, "Hey, I love you so much. This really bothered me when you said that." Like, are you available to talk about it? Like that builds intimacy cuz you're like, "Oh, I can actually express all of me and not just like the perfect sides of me because I felt like, you know, as a last thing, I was in relationships where I was performing. I'm the best friend. I can do this for you. You know, I'll always be available. Always hype you up. I'll always like, you know, self erase for you." And like when I actually started to show up and express my truth, you kind of lose friends and that's really normal. It's still painful, but I think real deep intimate relationships happen with them seeing you truly as the amazing person you are and also going through conflict repair. Oh my god. I I think it's I think um what did you call it? Conflict repair. Conflict repair. Repair cycles. Repair cycles. Oh my god. That when when I can think of the girlfriends I'm closest to, it's been because we've like hit a wall. Yep. something happened where you can choose to swipe right on the relationship. Is that right? Does swipe right make you not in a relationship or does it make you I wasn't on that one. I'm like I don't know which way you swipe when you double click the relationship. You don't like it. You guys have been married way too long. I I haven't been on the apps. Um because you know when you look at even even in my marriage like the it's like the harder the things that we've gone through the closer we're getting. and one of my girlfriends in particular, like we've been through some stuff and we're the closest because we've been through some stuff and I think it's making me sad for like the generations below us because nobody It's like they think that when you hit a conflict that they should know better or they shouldn't have been this way or why were they like this or and that is going to keep us so lonely and depressed and hating ourselves because I really do believe we find how to love ourselves through relationships. I love the comment of lonely. I think that's so real. And I noticed that in the generation, too, where they're like, "You're toxic. You're a narcissist. I'm cutting you out. Got to protect my peace." All these things. And of course, I'm talking about nuance. We're talking about nuance here. Totally. But it's like to not be lonely is to be seen. And to be imperfect. I am so grateful when my friends show me who they really are. When they're pissed, when they're upset, when they're angry, when they're frustrated. Like I had a friend the other day. She's like, "Hey, I don't think I can go on our walk." And I'm like, "Oh, why?" and she's like, "I just don't feel like myself. I don't feel good. I don't feel all these things." I'm like, "Great. I get to love you as a person." Like, I don't want you to feel like you have to be happy and perfect all the time. And when we can really truly love others in that way, we can love ourselves in that way. And I think going through things like you did with your husband, you were talking about like those develop the deepest bonds. And I want people to have deep bonds. And it doesn't mean you're fighting with your friends all the time or you have issues, but it means you're expressing yourself truthfully. They're holding and seeing you and witnessing you, expressing themselves truthfully. And you guys are coming to a place of mutual respect and understanding and an ability to really honor the person that you are and the person that they are and then move forward. For somebody listening, how do they know when to move forward with something in a friendship? because I had one fairly recently with one of my um closest friends and I was so hurt that like my old wounds were so were blinding me so much that I was like oh this is where it ends and I was like well that was a fun you know six-year run and like I was so incredibly hurt that it truly brought up everything in that moment of like this one really feels like I can't get over it. So did you express that to her? Were you in ended up expressing it and it brought us way closer together and it was very like understood and she was like I need to know all of it. You need to tell me like every last which I think that's so here's the thing is that if she wouldn't have done that like invited me into that I don't know what I would have done I think I would have run the other way. Yes. So how can we not lose our friendships? I think that's such a great point to even bring up for the audience of the tell me more. Oh my god tell me more. But that's someone that is emotionally regulated, emotionally mature. So what's happening in that situation is she's here and the problem is outside of her. Okay. Wow. We're both looking at this. What is that? What were you feeling? Like I'm not taking personally what came up for you. Yeah. I can work and change what what I did. We can work on things, but I'm just like, wow. Because I'm seeing you as, you know, I with parts work. I always see everything in parts. So what happened in your situation and scenario that's happened to me many times is you have a protective part that's like red alert she I we've done this before. We've had girls talk about us. We've had girls betray us. We've had this happen. We cannot have this happen again. We need to eject. We need to leave the situation in scenario. I think my first step in your scenario would be to go to a therapist or friend and just let it rip. I do this with my friends all the time. I'm like, "Hey, I need 10 minutes to rip." And that is allowing me to be imperfect, unprocessed, just to say all the things like this, she did this to me, I hated that, she did this. Allowing yourself to fully feel and move that emotion and energy is instrumental cuz then you can actually find the truth. I'm not going to fake it. I'm not going to front it. So then once I've processed that, I can go to the truth of like, okay, what am I noticing here? I'm noticing this is coming up for me, betrayal. I'm noticing competition's coming up for me. I'm noticing, you know, dishonesty is coming up for me. What about me is bringing that up? So, I would say, okay, I remember when that one friend in fourth grade, she told everyone this. I remember these things happened. I'm processing all of that myself before I'm going to the friend to tell my friend what happened. So then when I'm going to my friend, I'm like, "Hey, all of this came up for me. I was noticing this, this, and this because of this situation. I want to like bring you in to my process. I want to bring you into what came up for me because that's going to allow more intimacy to be created where you're like again the problem's here. You know, that's the famous thing. J Shetty also talks about it where it's like us versus the problem. I'm noticing this thing happened. It was so weird. I just felt so much fear because I felt like you were being competitive with me, you know, when you said that. And I know for me back when I was in third grade, all the girls were competitive with me. And I just have this story about that and I'm really struggling. Can you help me? Some things I love to say are, "Can you help me see the truth?" I love, "Can you help me see the truth?" Because right in that case, you know, I'm just using as an example because you shared it and your example because of the protector parts, you're not seeing the truth. No. And the truth is that she didn't understand. You don't there's a miscommunication here. So when you ask someone, help me see the truth. I'm seeing my perspective. What's yours? I also love the story that I'm telling myself. M the story that I'm telling myself is great cuz then you're like the story I'm telling myself is that you are competitive with me and you don't care about me and that you don't care about our friendship and someone that's your friend is going to be like whoa like that's thank you for sharing that like now I can understand you more and then as a third thing what I love to do in these scenarios to not lose friends I love to um add security statements security statements are huge I do them with my team I do them with my partners I do them with my friends so Whenever I have something to talk about with someone, it's really important that you kind of create that security at the beginning. So, if I was to come to you and be like, "Hey, Lori, when you said this, it really upset me and it just really bothered me and I really think that you're being competitive with me. The way that you're going to show up is so different than like Lori, I love you. You've been an amazing inspiration in my life. You've done so much for me. You've done so much for other women. Our relationship means so much to me. And what came up for me recently when you said this was this. You're gonna respond 80 billion times better to Yeah. The first one you shut down. The second one you're you're open. And you're giving both of you the opportunity to show up as your best self. If I'm bringing security statements, I'm validating what's true. Your relationship means a lot to me. This means a lot to me. So in that firm understanding of what's true, this person isn't going to react defensively. They're going to react openly. And it's going to create such a greater space for opportunity for you to have these deep meaningful friendships. Mhm. Yeah. Oh my gosh. The statement of even just what story Oh yeah. The story we telling that one was so powerful. We ended up there and it was it was so helpful because we were both able to see how we actually both like essentially called that in together. So, we could even heal something even deeper in in both of us. Because what was happening on her end is her wanting to please me by doing something was keeping her in the cycle of people pleasing. And her actually having to show up in the way that she did that disappointed me so much was like the world's most perfect lesson for me. And then it was perfect for her on having to disappoint someone. Yes. I mean, it was magical. And so and that's the thing that that's conscious relationships, you know, conscious relationships is taking full responsibility. Every you statement could be an I statement. If I'm like you are being this, it could be I'm feeling that you're there's something come up that you know I'm experiencing you this way. And so when we can kind of pull the thing outside of ourselves, we can use eye statements. We can regulate before. We can see it as an opportunity for deepening. That's when life gets so good. And that's when you feel truly supported and truly seen because I think most of my life with my female friendships like I didn't I now know how surface we were and I felt like by telling us secrets by telling you every detail of my sex life and my dating life and all the stories of my parents and you know all this stuff that we were close but it's like no like when there's a risk is when you get close cuz you telling your friend that that's a risk you could lose the friendship something could happen. So when you have a risk and you guys meet the risk and then you choose to continue to move forward, that's when you get the best friendships. Mhm. And it's like it's like nothing I can even tell you. If you haven't exper if you haven't experienced it yet, it's it's so worth it. But the the experience of getting there is scary. It's risky. And yeah, you you do lose some people. Like you do lose some people. Yeah. And I'm sure you've lost people. I've lost people. And for me personally, there hasn't been one friendship that I've lost that was not on purpose. Totally. Every one of them. There's friendships I think about still that I'm like, "Wow, that was I loved them." Like that that was hard and challenging. But for all the women that are struggling with losing friends because they're changing and evolving or maybe their priorities are changing, they have more on their plate or maybe they're just not the same person, just trust that even if you're in a void period, you will be aligning the more aligned friendships and you are just in a period to be sculpted to have the friendships that you deserve. What would you say to someone who is searching for those friendships? Like what actually goes into building these? Because one of the biggest things when I put my book out is they would be like, "Okay, I tried this and it didn't work." Like they would try maybe one or two things like, "Okay, I tried to have these conversations or I tried to invite people or I tried to do this thing." Like what has the process of building really good female friendships? Because I feel like you have really great women around you. What has that actually looked like? Mhm. It looks like a lot of trial and error. It looks like a lot of friendships that go. I think for me there was a clearing period. So I think the first step for women listening is like you might have a clearing period. I had to let go of the unaligned friends. So like you were kind of alone. Were you kind of alone for a little while for the most part? Yeah. It was like um it was a shedding. Like I remember at one period in my life my three best friends you know we had all like a falling out at the same time and I was like oh there's three pillar friendships in my life and now I see why the patterns that we were in. So just know that like being al first of all being alone is better than being with people that you don't align with. You need to make space to be with relationships that you're aligned. Second I think is becoming the friend that you want to have. So you need to become the woman that you want to be friends with. That means you're loving, compassionate, kind, powerful, funny, cool, whatever your priorities are. I had to become a person that I wanted to be friends with myself. I love being with myself. I'm like I'm my own best friend. And the way that I can love and be with myself is the way that I can love and be with others. So loving myself was a second thing. And I think the third thing was having one friendship I could have as like my playground. And that might be your best friend too that you were talking about. But Lindsay is my practice place. She's my place where I can be my full self, where I can express everything. She's always going to be available when I call. We can go through hard times. We can have conflict conflict rupture. And then she serves as a template for my friendships moving forward. Not that everyone needs to be Lindsay, but I'm like, do you make me feel safe? I know what safety is now. Do you make me feel seen? I know what being seen is now. Do you know how to handle these conversations? I know what that is now. And then as a fourth thing, I think understanding who your friends are and just accepting them as that. And so, let me explain that a little bit, right? I'm like, I have a friend I have a dear friend just gets so anxious. She's anxious. She changes her mind all the time. She yet she thinks she's a chill person. She's like, "I'm chill." But is anxious and changing her mind all the time. I know this about her and I accept it and I love it. And I'm like, that's how she is. I'm not going to change it. I'm not going to get annoyed about it. That's how she is. I have other friends that are like incredibly they just are like always picking things apart and always judgmental. That's how they are. And so you truly just not having the idea that something's wrong with your friends. you need to change them, you're better than them. Literally seeing it as like a character aspect of them and just accepting it. I love that because I I think that we can look or what I used to do is is look at certain friend circles and you just make up stories. You make up stories that it must all be perfect. They must all have the best time. They never disappoint each other. They always support each other. They must help grow each other's businesses. They must just braid each other's hair and have the best slumber parties. All the things. And now I'm like, "Oh, no. There's like a whole lot of [\h__\h] that you disappoint each other. You make plans. Maybe they're broken. People's hopes are up. Like just so so many things that you have to decide what you're going like what is that relationship worth to you and you you kind of have to decide it together. Like you both have to like decide what's worth fighting for. And that's been really healing to me in my girlfriend friendships is actually saying things like that. Like hey this relation we haven't we haven't talked in a while. this relationship is so important to me. I want to make it more of a priority. Like, how how can we do that? Love that. Otherwise, you'll you'll be lonely. Like, you will lose friendships. For me, I wasn't I'm not a person who felt like I had to check in all the time. Like, I'm like, I'm fine. Like, why can't you be fine? Like, why do we have to check in all the time? Which I don't necessarily. In fact, I try to avoid relationships that have to check in all the time. But I'm like, if I want people to check in with me, I have to check in with them. So, I try to do like weekly voice notes or just different things to remember. I'll put things on my calendar with my girlfriends like, "Oh, they have their launch. Oh, they had this big thing that they're doing." Or that's not my natural tendency at all. Like, it's the extreme opposite. And so, if I want that in my life, I have to first do that and be that. And now I feel like I have so much of that because my calendar is like, you know, or I'll I'll set reminders and things like that on my phone like they have this coming up to support people in kind of understanding how to spend their energy cuz we all have so much time. Something that I do too is called a friendship audit. And so a friendship audit is super powerful and you know it seems savage to do like an audit of your friends but really we're kind of doing that every day unconsciously. So it's just bringing whatever is unconscious conscious. Understanding where you need to spend your time and who are your priorities of friends. So as an example, I'll do this once a year. I'll look at all my friends in my relationships. Am I spending time with the friends that deserve my time? Often times families have this like some a man might be working all the time and be like my my values and priorities are my family and he's home one day a week and never. So, it's like I want to make sure that the people that are a priority are getting the best of me and they're getting the most time in my life. And I realized I wasn't doing that. Like, as an example with Lindsay and my ex-husband, like they were the least of my priorities, but I was if you if I died, I'd be like, there I love your so much. Yeah. I'm like, I'd do anything for you and I'm like not prioritizing them. So, friendship audited is really just looking at your friends making like ABC if you want. A is the person that's like you will wake up in the middle of the night when they call anything they want. They have deep access to you. You're always going to clear things that come up and you're always going to be honest with them. They're like your ride or die people. And the be friends would be like friends that you love you see once a month. They mean a lot to you. If something comes up, you might just process it on your own. You might not bring it to them. You're going to be there for them. You're going to be at their wedding, but it's not like the deep deep access. And then C would be like people you love but like see every once in a while that you like don't really need to spend that much time with. So, if you notice someone that you don't feel that good around, but maybe as a C friend kind of moving up in your time where you're spending too much time with them, you can be like, "Hey, this is a friend I actually don't feel that good with. Why am I spending so much time with them? What am I doing?" And I think it just helps us understand how to spend our time so that we're most fulfilled and deepening relationships with people that matter. I love that. Okay. Okay. So, I want to shift into um like body body image uh your perspective of nourishment because I know that through following you so much of your um like your growth in your content was around healing your like how you felt about yourself, your body and your body image. Um tell me about where that kind of first started where it was just like so heightened of awareness of like this is the body I'm in and the attachment to that. Man, I you know, it's been interesting in the book process because I think conversation on the body have come up the most. Really? Yeah. I think I don't know a single woman that hasn't struggled with her body in some way. No, I don't either. If if they're if they're being honest with you. Yeah. Oh, 100%. I just remember so many times in LA, you know, there's the most beautiful women in the world here. I'm friends with some of the most beautiful women in the world. And just hearing them rip on and tear apart their bodies and say these things. It's been so eye opening to see some billionaire women I know that are like struggle with her body. In the book we have a quote from Jamie K Jamie K Lima. Jamie Kern Lima and in it she talks about like even being a billionaire. She still struggles with her body on a daily basis. So it hits all of us. For me I was someone that was like a fat diet connoisseur did special K grapefruit cookie diet master cleanse Atkins South Beach Slim Fast Weight Watch. Like did it all. Did it all. Did it all. spent my whole life and so much mental energy doing that and I realized in my later 20s, you know, one day I was just walking across my kitchen and I just had this thought. I was in my normal day of how many steps I've walked, how many macros I've eaten, how many calories I've had, how many calories you needed to burn on Soul Cycle. Yeah. And how much I weighed, how much I needed to weigh, all those things. I was doing the Tetris game of all of this stuff. And I just had this moment where I was like, I think I might die doing this game. I think I might live the rest of my life doing the math problems all day. I have chills. Like the space it takes up is astounding. Psychotic. It's psychotic. Yeah, it's painful. I just was like I just noticed the prison that I was in and I noticed that I was not living my life and I noticed how I am and everyone is so incredible and immaculate and powerful and meaningful and here for purpose and it is not to count calories all day. It is not to do the math on how much you've eaten. It is not to subtract how much your your workout was from your daily calorie intake to see how many calories you It was like I was like this is absolutely absurd. And in that moment it was just a normal day. I I surrendered. I almost gave up. I was like oh this is my life. Maybe in my next lifetime I'll I'll be able to do this. You know maybe in my next lifetime I'll love my body or accept my body and not live with this. And a weird thing happened with that surrender. And Carl Rogers, who's the grandfather of um therapy, he talks about this paradox of transformation that in order to transform something, we have to accept it. So I didn't know I was doing that, but I fully accepted this moment. I fully accepted this thing. And that really led me on this journey of really going through all the layers of my body. And instead of going the route of dieting more, macros more, changing what I was eating, I just went the spiritual route. And I went the route of understanding the relationship my mom had to her body. My mom had a really challenging relationship with her body. My grandparent, my both my grandmas had eating disorders. Like my mom always saw food as a threat. So it was always a thing in my household. It started to look at, you know, the relationship I have as someone that's codependent with my body. I started to look at why I prioritize my body over anything else and just started to go really deep. And so that was what really led me to a place where now I'm just so deeply in love with my body and who I am and how I feel. And the most annoying thing happened, the thing that happened that I literally was my nightmare when I was in a bigger body was I started to lose weight cuz I wasn't having the subconscious belief of I am fat. I'm a problem that needs to be fixed. There's something wrong with me. I need to be smaller. Constantly running in my head in my subconscious. And that belief and that like program that women are running is just absolutely ruining their lives and actually keeping them from being in a body that they love. Do you what what do you think was so you accepted? Yeah. And at the point of accepting what started happening to like the habits like what were you noticing? Because I'm sure there were moments where you're because I I share so much of this with you like my 20s were just like the struggle life. Oh my god. Um that voice is loud in the 20s. Oh god. So especially if you I struggled with my weight as a kid. So like you just see yourself your identity. You just never see even if you lose even when I was competing there would be like times where I still felt overweight like you it's in your it's in your head you know. And so for you what would you notice like what started shifting with your habits? So to somebody who's like, "Okay, but what does that look like to, you know, accept and surrender like on a daily basis? Are you just like then allowing yourself to kind of like how does that playground look of accepting like dabble in food? How are you moving? What are you thinking?" Yeah. And just honoring like I remember you have to be available for this type of conversation around your body. Like when I was in my 20s, I was just like, "Tell me what to eat." Yeah. Know, tell me what to diet. give me the D. I was like unavailable for anyone that said anything about intuitive eating, anyone that said listen to your body, anyone that said anything about loving your body. I was unavailable. So I understand that this is another level and layer of of the body conversation. So what happened after that point was I started to commit to feeling my feelings because what I realized was that I was using food to numb. I was using food to cope. I was using food to avoid and I was using food to avoid feeling. M many of us have addictions. Porn, gambling, TV, phone, eating, shopping. Mine was eating. I didn't I used it in my household in a chaotic household to regulate, to find peace, to escape, to all these things. Most of us in life are numbing life. And you could be numbing life through food. So, I was numbing my life through food. So, I committed to feeling my feelings. And that really, you know, there's a lot of data and research on that because you're actually then eating less calories. You're eating less often. You're not binging. And you're just allowing 90 seconds of a feeling to move through your body. Most of us are told to not cry or scream or feel or emote when we're younger. So, we use food as a way to stop from doing that. So, I started to feel my feelings. I committed to that. So, that helped me eat less. That helped me eat more regularly. That helped me eat more peacefully and mindfully. And then, um, I got out of a relationship, you know, my my marriage where I was really hiding. I was really um unhappy and I was really again using food as my outlet. And so changing that relationship liberated me to find pleasure and meaning from life and feel like myself again in a way that I again didn't need food anymore. I was I mean I would go to Arowan and on the way home eat like two desserts on the way home and then get like more bingy food and just binge you know in the evening and try and work it out at Soul Cycle the next day. And just as a last thing, I think the most practical thing people can do with themselves or you know with a therapist is my preference is internal family systems again. So in parts work it was actually developed by Dick Schwarz who worked with eating disorder patients. So my therapist is an eating disorder um therapist. I've been working with her for 5 years and we don't talk about that anymore but it was really helpful. So, in parts, what's happening with with the food and body conversation is that there's a part of you that believes that you have to do everything you can to be thin to be loved. And being loved is survival. And so, we have to be with that part and to help let that part know that you are loved. Even if you are not thin, even if you're not the body that you want, like to pull that part and that voice outside of you to remember that like you are a soul. You are a soul that is worthy of love outside of how much you weigh. You are so much more expansive than the scale. you are so much more expansive than this life. And so when we can really be with that part, that dysfunctional part and love her, honor her, and accept her and then allow her to relax to create spaciousness from that, we can really kind of see things a little differently where the normal conversation that you had that I have was like, "Never enough, need to be thinner. This is what I need." You know, that whole dance. You can kind of create space around it. Okay. Like I see you. I see that conversation. I see that opportunity. I still have it sometimes for sure. You know, I got home from a trip recently and was like, "I should fast today." You know, the voice the voice is still there. She's like, "We should fast." And I was like, you know, now I can see be like, "Okay, girl." Like, "I see you." Like, we're feeling a little puffpuff. We got to do our thing. But it's like pulling that apart. So, the voice says, "We shouldn't eat today." It's like, "Okay, I see you. Got it." It's not the voice as you. It's you as the inner mother, as the self, as the soul in relationship to that voice and not letting that voice run you. So what I mean in those moments where there's also you know you kind of have this practical moment that could take over to like okay yeah I feel like [\h__\h] Yeah. What could I do? So what do you shift into instead? Cuz yeah you're feeling you're not feeling your best. Yes. If you like feel like not good in your body. Yeah. If you're like whoa I came home. I'm super bloated. I'm not feeling great. Totally. Do you just acknowledge it or what do you do? I think it's all about the energetics behind it because I could have that same thought of oo I just got I was in Miami last week. I was doing my thing. and I was doing my thing and I'm like I got home I was like ooh like feeling feeling the burn and so the thought and energetic behind it before was like there's something wrong with me no one's going to love me I need to change my body now there's like an anxiety feeling of like I'm going to schedule every workout this week I'm going to get my diet plan I'm going to do these things and now it's like oh I'm noticing that thought like okay I you know how does my body feel like actually yeah I do feel a little out of sorts I feel like there's a better way to be like I love myself enough to like commit to feeling good this week. And what does feeling good for me feel like? Maybe it doesn't feel like scheduling all my workouts, but maybe it does feel like making my meals at home. Maybe it feels like going on walks. Maybe it feels like sleeping more. And it's usually things that like exist. They can exist with food. You can be like, I'm going to eat really nourishing, colorful food all week or I'm going to eat really well or maybe I'm going to fast for a spiritual reason. But it's like the energetic and intention behind it is different, you know? Totally. What have you found? Because you mentioned a little bit about your marriage. I feel like that was I don't know too much about it at all actually. Like what you were married like a a year together 10 years. Okay. Together 10 years. That's right. You guys were together for a while. Um and then married for a year. Do you feel like all of this was attached like the food? Yeah. The Tell me what you've kind of learned in that journey of like the hiding and the attachment to the food and deciding to let go of the marriage because you did that all publicly like how did that feel and what did you learn from that? Whether I like it or not it was publicly you know like exactly whether I like it or not. You didn't have a choice. It had to be public. The wedding was public. Our relationship was public. He was on the podcast a few times, so I had to do it publicly. But the relationship between like my body and that relationship, I mean, said as nicely as possible, the dynamic we were in, there was a narcissistic, there's a narcissistic element to that. And when you're with a narcissist, you are completely living outside of yourself and for someone else. I'm tracking you constantly. What do you need from me? How do you want me to be? And this is also me on on me. I'm 100% responsible for my role. You self-sacrifice, you self erase. You know, there was not talk about my life, talk about me. So, you're kind of just like not existing. So, there's the energy of hiding in that dynamic that I was in where I was like hiding. And then your body kind of hears that and is like, let's hide, let's put weight on. I also didn't feel safe in the dynamic. So, you put on weight to protect from a spiritual perspective. And a lot of these things are just related to spiritual concepts. So you hold the weight on your body to protect yourself because you feel like you have to. And then also I was not using my voice. And I believe that there's such a relationship between using your voice and being in a body that you love. Not only because your voice is moved through your physical body and your voice is attached to the body, but because it's your expression and like your ability to be seen and your ability to be heard. And I didn't feel like I had the right to be seen or the right to be heard. So there was just this kind of avoidance of myself. There was a bypassing of the self. There was a self- eraser. And there was a prioritization of someone else over me. So, I wasn't even taking care of myself. And so, when you take care of yourself, you're going to be in a body that you love. But, it was beautiful to have the evolution after the divorce that I had. And breaking up is the best opportunity for you to step into a life that you love. Like, I just timeline hopped after that relationship. And I really want women to know that like on the other side of your fear about leaving a mediocre relationship or relationship that doesn't work for you is the life that you want and is the life that you can love and be in and create. And I just have found that breakups are like the biggest portal for for growth ever. Okay. So talk to me about timeline hopping because there are some people who whether they whether they are in a relationship or not or they're just like, man, I'd love to hop this timeline right now. Like I would love to do what she just said. Yeah. I mean, I watched it with you. It felt like you, but next level like on another timeline. So, how does one do it? Timeline hopping is like a spiritual concept that you know, I have a whole podcast on it, but it's essentially kind of like butterfly effect. Like as an example in life, you have a timeline that exists of you living in Michigan still, working, you know, at at a place by home. No, literally. I saw. Yes. Exactly. Being with your high school boy, you know, whatever the thing is. We have so many timelines that we exist in in life. I have a timeline where I live in Ohio with my high school boyfriend, whatever. So these timelines that maybe we could meet and have a potluck in the Midwest, honestly. Like what would you bring? What would your dish? Okay. So my so my I'm trying to think of like what kind of my vibe would be back. I'd probably bring like something I thought I'd be being wellness but I' not. It'd be like kombucha and then I'd be maybe the skyline chili um spaghetti. Have you had that? So I would have I was great with bacon spaghetti. I would have brought that to your house and would have blew your mind. Wait, what's bacon spaghetti? Um my grandpa would make it because it was like when you're poor that's what they would have. But it just so happens to be the best thing ever. It's spaghetti with bacon and then like stewed tomatoes but brown sugar. So it's like this very bacony saucy. It's insane. But yeah, that was my Midwest. I mean, brown sugar, baby. What are you What are you even talking about? We'd be walking watching football all day like all day. All day. And there's nothing wrong with that. That's just not the life that's your highest expression or timeline. And so when we think about timelines, we have a lot of different availability in life when we're conscious creators of our life. I had a timeline that existed where me and my ex-husband stayed together that I just was like, you know what? This is what love is. This is what relationships are. This is what it is. And I could have chosen that. That's available. But I also chose a timeline where I didn't know what was next. I didn't know where I was going. I didn't know who I was going to be with. It's scary. I don't know what's here. If I would have stayed with him, I knew what was there. We could live in a house. We'd then maybe have a family. You know, there's kind of like a predicted timeline. Mh. And so when I chose the harder thing that was more aligned to my intuition, that's when I hopped that timeline because my intuition and my soul was calling me forward. And it doesn't mean it's easier. Usually it's harder and usually you don't know where you're going. But you really get to a place where you can be more aligned, more free, more yourself, more embodied. When you're able to make the harder choice that aligns with your intuition that takes you further to the life that's meant for you. What's feeling hard for you right now? Like what are you working through? What are you what are you able to see? Like what are you able to see if you can see something for the next version? Yeah. What's feeling like the block right now? I want you to answer this one too. Okay. So noodle. Um gosh I to be honest I think I was telling you this before. Mentally I'm not well. I Let me just I just want to hold you and rock you because I I was not well. Like you're not well. But it is a part of Okay, keep going. It's it's a part of the next part of you that will be the best part. You'll just like you will not have been able to meet her without this unwellness. I hope that I feel free. You will. So what I'm working with right now is this moderator part of me that exists and lives and just monitors everything I do and say and needs me to be perfect. example this interview I will be like bye love you guys and then once I'm alone in the car the moderator part will be like should have said this should have said that could have done this better oh you know did she really like you like oh that was a weird thing to say remember when she kind of looked away when you're it's just it is like I love it cuz I I understand it don't yeah I fully understand it yes oh my god I'm like and she is just on and popping through this book launch so when you do big things when you push yourself outside your comfort zone, when you go for your dreams, when you do something that is being seen and heard, the limiting beliefs that you have and the and the things that you struggle with are going to be spotlighted and exacerbated because this part of me existed, but I didn't hear her as clearly as I am now. And so, I'm really struggling with this part of me that is so hard on me because that's not the true me and that's not the most successful me. That's not the most productive me. that's not the most authentic and free version of myself because it has this deep desire for me to be perfect. And you know, just on the other side of that, it's a really beautiful part of me. It's made me an amazing speaker. It's made me a really clear communicator. It's made me an amazing, you know, conversationalist if we're talking about the work example. And so now I can see her and I can pull her outside of me and I can see the benefit she's bringing to my life. So I have to change, you know, and I'm not doing this all the time, but I've worked on changing my relationship with her where I can get in the car and be like, "Hey girl, you got a few minutes. What's up?" She can be like, you know, this thing you could have said better. This you could have said better. And it's like, okay, I personally, Christa, outside of this critic can take her feedback and get curious about it. You know what? Actually, I could be more clear when I'm saying that. That's a great point. You know what? Actually, that could have been a better story. That's a great point. So, when we use our inner critic as like our coach, it can be really supportive for us. Like the inner critic to coach pipeline is really powerful. So, I'm trying to use it as my coach, but right now I feel so deep in it that I can't I'm still a little murky with things. You It's just that which is beautiful because you're gonna for you know, for where you're going, you have to have this cleared. And I think there's no better way to clear it, which does it ever go away? No, not fully. But you can, you know, you'll just acknledge it later. But there's no better way to do it than the sheer amount of reps that you're having to do. Yes. And you have to actually get so sick of it. Totally. Until one day, just like with your body, you will actually be like, "Cool, great." No. Like I fully I fully understand it. I had it so bad. And then one day I literally was like, "Cool. Well, I liked me and I think that was okay and I can always get better. Yeah, 100%. You're just like it's neutral. Like even today, I hope this lasts, but even today I was like, I'm actually unavailable for all that. I'm unavailable. I'm I'm actually good. And it's almost like this is the thing. It's like using boundaries on yourself. People are like using boundaries on everyone else. They're like boundary boundary boundary. and like use a boundary on yourself cuz you're so mean to yourself and you're beating yourself up and you're saying all these mean things to yourself and it's like you need to create the boundary so that you're not beating yourself up all day. And today I was like no I'm good. We're not doing that. Whatever's going to happen is going to happen and I'm going to be grateful for it and I'm proud of myself. I'm proud of the book and I'm just unavailable to beat myself up all the time for trying my best and trying my hardest and truly doing what I know to be best for myself and my community. What are you struggling with, dog? Um, what am I struggling with? I'm so excited to share this. You guys know I never shy away from big scary leaps, those super messy, what the heck am I doing moments and this is Small Business just kicked off a new season and it's all about risk. You know, I'm obsessed with this topic because that's what it takes. The host, Andrea Marquez, takes us behind the scenes with fearless founders who turn their maybe later ideas into heck yes, let's go adventures. These episodes have it all. They have raw stories of grit, honest advice, and so much inspiration. I got full body goosebumps listening. I was nodding along thinking, "This is exactly the kind of fuel we all need when chasing our big dreams." So, if you need that extra push to go after your own hell yes vision, you have to check this out. Go follow this is small business on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you listen. I can't wait for you to hear it. The hardest part about starting a business is often getting started. Build your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Starting your business should be simple. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered Agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Northwest Registered agent has been helping businesses launch and grow for nearly 30 years. If you want to build your business while keeping your personal information secure, Northwest is the partner you need. In just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, they'll form your business, create a custom website, and set up your local presence wherever you need it. Form your business for just $39 plus state fees backed by real business experts with decades of experience. Protect your identity and keep your home address private by using Northwest Address on your information documents. Don't wait. Protect your privacy. Build your brand and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit Northwestregistered.com/earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at northwestregistered.com/earn. When I first started Glossy, I was so overwhelmed. I felt like I had to do everything on my own because you do and your to-do list just keeps mounting. But let me tell you, when you're starting off with something new, it just seems like that list is growing and growing and growing. And it can quickly overrun your life. So, you have to start learning to find the right tools that can not only help you out, but simplify everything. And that is a gamecher. And let me tell you, for millions of businesses, that tool is Shopify. And I am included in those numbers. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started and I'm going to add mine to the list, Glossy. Get started with your own design studio. With hundreds of readytouse templates, Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. And you guys, I love my website so much. that's on Shopify. Go and check it out. Also, Shopify is your e-commerce expert with world-class expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into cha-ching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy.happy. /happy. How much time do we have left? Kidding. Um, what am I struggling with? Um, okay. That was a good joke. I I took that personally. I was like, "Oh, she's done with me." That was That was too good of a joke. Not at all. That was me saying, "How much time do you have that you could listen to what my problems are?" Um, okay. So, what am I struggling with? I am in a place where 40s are interesting. They're so interesting. They're so awesome and also so weird because you are supposed to have arrived. And when I say supposed to, like I don't even know who made that up. But I think in your 40s you feel like, oh, this is where I should start going into the next chapter of like who I am and I'm settled. And I actually think in your 40s and according to everything I'm kind of learning from other people too, I think there's the biggest initiation into the second portion of your life. Yeah. So I think what we see, especially what I feel like I see from friends, especially my Midwest friends, I think there is very clear choices that we make in our 40s of either the tapping out like this is it, this is what I did, this is what I came here to be. It was maybe the kids, it was the family, or maybe it wasn't. Maybe I don't have that yet. Maybe this is like this is just kind of it. Oh, this is my body. Oh, this is what I look like now. We're older. Um, you know, there's not a whole lot left. And I think you can either choose that or you can decide that this is the most exciting time of your life and that you're just getting started and that everything you did prior to that has wound you up in a position to start something even bigger. And when I mean bigger, I don't even mean monetarily. I mean like purpose-wise of like what could you really step into? And I think where this gets challenging is in your 40s, you you also feel a little tired. you're a little tired of being [\h__\h] challenged all the time. And so I'm I am struggling with I thought that portion of deep struggle and challenge was done internally, but it's a different version. It's a different version of the fire like trying to burn something away. Like you think you're like I'm listening to you say these things I'm like yeah I struggle with that. I think I'm good with that. And then there are this whole mountain of other things that it's almost the same but it's it's coming up in a different way like so because what's the feeling of what's the feeling there? Is it that you should be somewhere you're not? Like what's the discrepancy that's creating the that pain? Like why am I not as fulfilled as I thought I would be? or I thought this would go easier or wow, I thought the relationships that I built up would have made this a lot easier. And like a new level of even disappointment is open to you cuz the bigger game you play Yeah. the more you do, like you said, the more you have to ask those people or see things and it's like a new level of things is being revealed to me when you're in an even like I I'm playing a riskier game in my life right now. There's a lot more there's a lot more money involved. There's a lot more uncertainty involved. There's like risks, you know, Chris is taking massive risks in his career and there's things in our life that we're facing where we're like, whoa, this is, you know, we haven't had children yet and we think we really want them, but now we're in such a midpoint in our life where it is it it is just a bigger gamble of what your what your future is going to look like. So, I think that I didn't realize that as you play your bigger game, like it just it can get bigger. Yeah, I think that's such a great point to bring up for the audience too because I think people see, you know, people like you just or really successful big people and it's like you have to be sculpted to hold that much like and that's what I'm realizing more in life in my career. I'm like, oh, I wasn't given that opportunity or that thing cuz I actually didn't have capacity to hold it. I actually wasn't sculpted to have it. I would have died even 5 years ago with what's going on in my life right now. Like I would have crumbled to pieces. Yep. Exactly. I would have never been able to like you are being buil and forged through fire to be able to do what it is that you want to do and you have to trust that and it's like it's not the people that are the biggest usually have struggled the most and been through the most. I remember I was at a party and um it was some random party and Will Smith was there and he was just talking about how he has like between like 12 and 20 lawsuits against him a month. Mhm. It's just like people suing them all the time. And it just struck me because I was like someone like that level that plays so big. You think that life is just good and it's like there's so much happening behind the scenes. Stalkers, paparazzi, lawsuits, money things, people taking advantage of you, all this stuff. It's like for for the grandiose and the beautifulness that you see on the outside, there is just as much struggle and strife that is happening on the other end. Yeah. You have to we're just all of these things and everything you shared and all the challenges like the the the position that you're in right now where you're just like I just feel like I'm going to break. I'm like oh you're just they're expanding your edges. Like it's just you're a water balloon right now and it's filling and it's filling and it's filling because for the next vision it has to expand all around it, you know, and it's like you can't get that until you're stretched beyond what you think you can possibly hold because the blessing is big but also what comes with the blessing is also really really big. Yes. Cuz God's like, "Okay, so you want this thing and so now, so you want this book to happen and be a success. Okay, so now in this process of that, you're complaining. You're not like doing these things. You're like choosing the limiting beliefs. You're choos because you're already not doing well with this this what I'm giving you." And so when we're given opportunities, and I think this is so helpful for your audience because some of the women might want bigger opportunities or bigger stages or bigger audiences, these things. It's like do the [\h__\h] best job ever with the audience that you have, the room that you're in, the [\h__\h] money that it's like just crush it. That was a tough lesson for me to learn. A lot of you are like me and you started your business or your podcast or your courses because you were super passionate about something and you wanted to turn it into your life's purpose and your job. But once you got started, you had no freaking idea how hard the marketing portion was going to be and how many different hats that you were going to have to wear. By the time you even get to the marketing portion, you're usually exhausted or you don't know what step to take next. And that's why I'm so excited to introduce you to Constant Contact because it's going to help you with so many of those problems. Constant Contacts award-winning marketing platform is here to make marketing way easier and way more effective for small businesses like yours. The best part, you don't need to know anything about marketing. Your struggle with expensive, slow, and unmeasurable marketing is over. With their all-in-one platform, you can create and manage attention grabbing campaigns in just a few clicks. Email, text, social media, events, landing pages, you name it, it's all in one place. No more juggling dozens of different tools. So, I'm so glad that I found Constant Contact and can't wait for you guys to get started. Get a free 30-day trial when you go to constantcont.com. Try constant contact free for 30 days at constantcont.com. That's constantcont.com. You guys, Chris and I have so many businesses with so many people that are really important to us. customers whose calls we don't want to miss or don't want to miss communication with, then open phone is the number one business phone system that streamlines and scales your customer communications. It works through an app on your phone or a computer. So, no more carrying two phones or using a landline, which Chris and I would talk about all the time that we wanted two phones to just try to keep our lives a little bit separate. And with open phone, your team can share one number and collaborate on customer calls and text like a shared inbox. That way, any teammate can pick up right where the last person left off, keeping responses and times faster than ever. Plus, say goodbye to voicemail. Their AI agent can be set up in minutes to handle calls after hours, answer questions, and capture leads so you never miss a customer. So whether you're a oneperson operation drowning in calls and tax or have a large team that needs better collaboration tools, Open Phone is a no-brainer. See why over 60,000 businesses trust Open Phone. Open Phone is offering my listeners 20% off of your first 6 months at openphone.com/earn. That's openphone.com/earn. O pen pne.com/earn. And if you have existing numbers with another service, Open Phone will port them over at no extra charge. Open Phone, no missed calls, no miss customers. Okay, so if you came over to my house right now, I would probably make you go into one of the guest rooms and just crawl into the bed because I am such a bedding junkie that I would need you to experience how awesome my bed sheets were. And if you know anything about me, I am obsessed with sleep because I feel like I'm such a different person when I get my sleep. I perform at a much higher rate and I'm just a whole lot nicer. And you guys, one night with Quinc's European linen and you would understand the hype. These sheets are light, they're breathable and super soft and they have that perfectly livedin vibe. They're woven from 100% European flax linen. And they have that heirloom quality that feels like it gets softer with every wash. And the same goes for their ultra plush duvets, quilts, pillows, and shams, too. Quint has everything you need to level up your bed. And the best part is like Quinc's clothing, their bedding is half the cost of similar brands. And by partnering with top artisans, Quint cuts out the cost of the middleman and passes the savings on to us. And quint only works with factories that use safe, ethical, and responsible manufacturing practices and premium fabrics and finishes. And especially when the weather changes, I switch out my blankets. And my favorite blanket that I got from them is the vintage wash European linen bed cover. And I got it in the oat color cuz it works perfectly with everything that I have in my super neutral room that I'm obsessed with. So, let your bed match the season with cool, relaxed bedding from Quint. Go to quint.com/happy for free shipping on your order and 365day returns. That's quint.com/happy qui nce.com/happy to get free shipping and 365day returns. quint.com/happhappy take more. It was just a tough It was very tough for me because I always wanted more and I always thought that my happiness was on the other side of more people. Oh yeah. More audience, more attention. Yeah. Why don't I have what she has? And when I finally got happy with like what I'm doing, it's like I I truly am the happiest I've ever been in my life right now because I'm the happiest with what I have. Yes. And it's changed my life. I'm so happy coaching into my mastermind groups. I'm so happy talking to like the people online. I'm so like whoever I have online, whoever jumps on, like even, you know, I I do like certain calls where I'm like, "Oh, I wish more people would come on, but only if seven people would come on." I'm going to like love these seven people like they've never [\h__\h] been loved before. And I'm doing that for me. Like, yes, I'm doing it for them, but I'm doing it for me to like feel satisfied with my life life and the job that I'm doing. And just like enjoying it, you know? It's like I had that thing too where it's like you always want the more numbers, you know? want the the more things or whatever, but it's like, oh no, this is I've had to do that a lot. It's like, oh, this is what God wants for me right now. This is what this is what's meant to be. And this is like also too, it's like providing transformation or like something instrumental to someone's life to one person is crazy cuz you've had I've had that in my life where someone said one thing to me, there was one on locker room where I'm like that changed my whole life and I'm like to be able to give that to someone is such a gift. That's the realization that's changed my life is that in every opportunity that I when I'm getting my coffee, when I'm at the gym, like passing someone on a walk, we have that opportunity to actually change someone's day in a huge way and make them perceive how they perceive the world. You can actually, not that I want you to be responsible for people, but you have the ability to help change perspective every single day or a transformation. And that is honestly that is what has changed my life the most is like how can we do that in the little parts of our day rather than wanting like this big audience or people to show up and I still want those things but I also am aware like I'm so happy with these other things. Yeah. Yeah. I was realizing that recently in the past couple weeks where I was like, you know, sometimes what God wants for you is to make impact like with the Uber driver. Mhm. Or the, you know, the barista or the server or your nanny or, you know, your husband or your partner. It's like it actually isn't always about being on stage. It isn't always about that. And I think the more I've connected with everyone in my life that I see in a kind, loving way, the more I've loved myself, the more I've loved people, the more impact I've made. And anyone that's listening, whether you have a job or not, you're entrepreneur or not, can make an impact where, and this is cliche and corny, I understand, but it's like you can make an impact wherever you are just by being kind to people or being loving to people or being present for people. And you never know that where that's going to go even outside of just enjoying it more yourself. And I think that that's what starts to expand. Yeah. What you get to impact is when you start to like really appreciate that you get to do those little moments. I think that's when you get blessed with like opportunities to do more if that's what you're really feeling called to. It's when you don't care. Totally. You know what I mean? Honestly, why does it take so long to arrive there? I know. Honestly, it's like I don't care anymore and then it's like doop. Here you go. Sometimes some I'll like play with I'm like I'll fake not care. I'm like I don't care about this. Yeah, I know. She's like Yeah. Literally. I'm like it's cool because I don't care about this at all anymore. And it's like I desperately care and I'm trying to lie to myself. I do that all the time. Like no, I don't care God. And he's like, "That's funny." Yeah. Surrendered. Well, do you say God because of your religion or how do you feel about that? Do you say God? Yeah. Okay, cool. Mhm. I Yeah. God's like, that's the word for me. Yeah. Same. Yeah. It's come back. I I don't know. It used to be It used to be Jehovah. So, you know, is Jehovah God? Yeah. Oh, yeah. That's another name for God. Okay. Got it. Got it. Um, so yeah, it was weird. It was more weird for me to say God than that. But that that doesn't translate well out in the world when I'm like Judia. It's like, you know, God Jehovah's like, "Yeah, that's not as they're like, are you Jay-Z?" Yeah. The person who says it, however people get there, universe, source, whatever, but God feels right for me. Totally. That that's that's where I'm at, too. So, okay. The book The book literally covers everything that we talked about. Yes. Yep. So, basically, the book was um inspired by Lindsay and I's journey of becoming almost 30. So, when you're on your almost 30 journey, your prefrontal cortex is coming online. So, you're becoming conscious. So with your prefrontal cortex, you're actually able to think rationally. And then also you're going through something called a Saturn return. And so that's an astrological term, but what happens during that time is you have rock bottoms, you have reckonings, you have all the lessons in life really tend to come up. Do you remember your like 27 through 30 period? Yes. What was going on? I was breaking through like my old identity of not being smart enough, not being good enough, hiding that I didn't graduate from high school, started doing fitness. Um, yeah, it was like a whole thing. Whole identity shift. Whole identity shift. You're re-evaluating your identity in a real way. And I think whether you're almost 30 or not, it doesn't matter. It's about your relationship with change. And it's about the belief that we all think we're behind, but we're really just becoming. And so in the book we have stories that are really vulnerable from Lindsay and I. And then we have pass the mic. So we have some of our guests that we share in the book like Mel Robbins, J Shetty, Glenn and Doyle, just some of the some really powerful people that fit the stuff. And we talk about career, purpose, the body, we talk about burnout, um we talk about spirituality, we talk about money. We really wanted to cover all of the areas that are important in your conscious awakening. And so it's a really hefty book and I I just love it. I'm so proud of it. Well, I don't think it matters what age you are. I think it's huge because I can place myself back to that age and go, "Wow, this is like this was so big for me." And also, it's such good reminders of everything. Yes. Um, and let me just tell you, please write in almost 40. Oh, I know. I was like thinking about that recently. I was like, are we going to reread the almost 40? I was like, maybe maybe at some point, but I'm still like lying about my age with dating. So, you know, we'll see. We'll we'll chat about honestly. But you guys go grab the book. We'll make sure we link everything up um right below here in the show notes. And I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on. And who knew meeting you way back in Soul Cycle. I literally loved you the second I met you, which is how I met you. And we met I was like I don't know. I remember your abs. I just remember your abs. You cruising in the front with Chris. Well, thanks. Every class 7 a.m. You would go to S 7 a.m. every week. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. That was just Yeah, that was a whole different life. That was a whole different life. This is a whole different podcast. Thank you so much for everything. Definitely go let her know what your biggest takeaway was from the podcast. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.