My story is all just shooting my shot. If someone's thinking, "Oh, look, I could never do that." No, no, you can. Like just like prep your emails. Think about who you want to reach out to. And my biggest thing is like what value can I provide to them? They need to hit numbers and they need to make sales. So thinking always, how can my goal help them get to that goal? Once you unlock that, you start to get yeses. Marina, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thanks for having me. I'm so excited. We were just yapping so much before, so I'm like really excited to talk about all the things, guys. We have decorated our homes. We have talked about your event coming up. We've talked about all the things. So now we decided to hit record and get the good stuff for you guys, too. So I'm so glad that you were able to make this happen. I know that you are busy CEO woman on the road right now. You weren't sure if you were even going to have your hotel room for this. This was crazy. We're in Austin right now doing our future summit event and it's happening during Southby and Austin is packed. Like packed, packed, packed. So if someone's listening and they've been to Austin during this time, they get it. Um but yeah, my hotel situation was crazy, but I'm so happy that I was able to get in and get situated. But we have a long week ahead. So you have a really exciting long week. How do you feel like leading up to these things? Paint me a picture of what that looks like. You're CEO of Create and Cultivate, which we're also going to back up from your story very soon. But what does that look like leading up to these events for you guys? Yeah. So it is like the details that most people don't think about, right? It's it's figuring out how the line is going to be actually structured and permitting and the design of the stages and everything. I would say like the actual week is crazy um in the sense of just like confirming everything. Shipping is crazy as you know. It's just um all of the little details, but I'm just so grateful. I have an amazing team. And I have 10 unbelievable, very hardworking women that um are just crushing it and know exactly what our attendees need and like what makes a really really good experience for events to make sure that like both the extroverts and the introverts are comfortable when they attend. And so it's a lot of moving pieces and I'm definitely much calmer than um I usually am. And that's really the my team for like really holding it down. It's been amazing. That's so good. And also that you guys that you guys have each other like you can kind of bounce off of each other in freakout moments. What's been like your favorite part of having, you know, a partner that you get to work with. So I have like the best business partner, uh, Jacqueline Johnson, who's the original founder of Crate and Cultivate. She's the best because she has so much experience. Obviously, I've always been a soloreneur. I've never had a business partner. And it's definitely a lot more work. It's just like a relationship. It's a marriage, right? you have to talk through things. You there's you're not going to always see eye to eye, but there is nothing better than being able to like pick up the phone and be like, "Hey, you know, how would you handle this?" Or, you know, "Hey, I got this email. Like, I reacted like this. Would you have done that?" And I think we're in a unique space because like, you know, I'm in the day-to-day. I operate the business. I really like kind of like um make the calls on a lot of things where for her, she's done that for 10 plus years. And so, she's, you know, isn't in the day-to-day in that sense. And so it's been really cool to kind of like lead in a new way, but also always have that legacy where I could go back and be like, "Hey, question. How would you do that?" Um, she's been doing stuff by and events for yeah 10 plus years. Okay. So, I want to I want to back up because I want to talk about how you grew up. What were some of the core beliefs in your family that you can remember growing up from like eight to the age of 13 that was just like this is how you perceived the world. This is how the world is. This is how we operate in the world. This is who we are. Yeah. So I was born in Egypt and I'm an only child and so when we came here I was around eight. So like just thinking through that time specifically was such a pivotal moment for me because my dad was an English or um an engineer and my mom was a science professor in Egypt and but when they came here their degrees like didn't really mean anything. So they had to start from scratch. So what I saw growing up early on was you know a lot of resilience a lot of hard work but at the same time like I associated like those beliefs like I associated happiness and worth with money. Like when I saw my parents really stressed out, it was because they didn't feel like they had enough money. We were in and out of family homes for a really long time. Like we didn't I was out literally living out of suitcases cuz we couldn't afford a house. And so it was really interesting like now being as an adult thinking through like oh this is where my relationship with money stemmed from. You know, I would say the other belief I like kind of was instilled with me is this like and I know we're in a and I'm curious to think like to hear what you think, but we're in this like anti-hustle culture. Mhm. I watched my parents hustle since the day I was born. Like you know what I mean? Like they didn't take days off. They were working around the clock. They were entrepreneurs when they came here. They owned pizzeras. They were like they were trying to figure it out. and and it wasn't like oh I don't know what to do. They were always having this like solution mindset and that's what was like really ingrained in me and I think that's why I'm like the type of worker and work ethic that I you know have now for sure is from that. I'm I'm same. So, I'm curious to to hear from that like how do you feel about the mentality of like soft girl era and you know this is just meditate on it or manifest it like what are your thoughts around that? I really want to find this happy medium between that, you know, like really really trying to figure that out because I am so far away from soft girl era. Like I am I am not a soft girl at any areas of my life. And I am I can be so intense and like when I believe something and I'm passionate, I'm just like go go go go. I don't love this like anti-hustle culture because I do believe that a lot of the entrepreneurs and the business owners and executives and just like humans that have gotten to where I want to be, they have worked so hard. And I just don't believe that they've gotten there by like working one hour days. Like I just don't believe that. There's no I don't know how, you know, but I do believe that you can work a lot and hard and smart and also like meditate and journal and take care of your health and all of that. And that's what I'm trying to find right now is that happy media like taking care of myself and also being like extremely busy. I'm in the I'm in the same position. I'm just like, you know, I grew up um seeing my parents work super hard, almost too hard, but without the results that they wanted. So, it's kind of like we get to be the generation of like, how can we work hard, have some balance because I know that you like to work though, like you're a worker and a creator. I from everything that I that I can see anyway. Um, but have some balance with that. So, going back to kind of your career trajectory growing up, what was your first job like? Were you drawn to anything as a young kid? Because you watched your parents do certain things. What were some things in your head that you were starting to feel drawn to and what was that first job? Yeah, I worked so much, Lori. Like I I my first job was at an ice cream barn in Massachusetts and I love it. Yeah, it was the best serving ice cream. Like my it was actually very hard to scoop ice cream for like eight hour days. Oh, for sure. It was like my hand is about to break. So worked at Ice Cream Barn. I worked at CVS. I worked at Abberrombi. worked at Aeropastel. I worked at Finish Line. I worked at like you name it, whatever. I like worked at it. Even all the way to college, I wasn't like a big I'm still not really a big drinker. And so like I would go to class, I would get out of class, I would then go to work at Louis Vuitton in Boston. I was a sales associate there. And then I would get out of that job and go bartend. So like oh my god, I was slammed. And so I just like didn't know any other way. Like I just always I love working and one thing I'm working through like even with my therapist and leadership coach and mentors is like I associate my worth with like my work ethic, right? Like the hard work, the more like accomplishments I can do or like even like team members I can help, the more that I feel like like I just feel good, you know? And so that's like yeah, that's where I find that happiness. But it really did come from like my first job working at ice cream bar and I was like I'll spend my summers working and not like hanging out with my friends, you know. Totally. Okay, I want to dive into that because that is like such a core wound for me of I'm so attached my identity is so attached to my accomplishments. And I think it's like the beginning right when you first start getting those like accolades and people paying attention to you for what you've done and you're like this feels good. Like especially for a kid like me who wasn't popular and totally was, you know, more of an outcast. And so it's like you learn when you're older, oh that equals love, that feels like safety, like especially social safety. Like, oh, they'll like me if I x, y, and z. How are you working on it? Like in therapy, how are you working on kind of detaching from that from needing to always be accomplishing something? Yeah, I think it was my therapist who asked kind of like, well, why why are you able to like keep showing up or why are you excited about this? And I my answer was like ego. Like it was my ego. Like I wanted to be able to say like, oh, I did this, you know, a similar like I I was bullied growing up. I had zero friends and then when I did have friends, they also sucked. So I was like I just didn't have like I just didn't have like a core community. And like maybe we should introduce those sucky friends to each other now. But I am like I am the queen of being like look at me now like you know where where are you like you tore me down for no reason. So I always said like it's ego. And so kind of how I'm working on now is like and I'm so grateful for create and cultivate you know as a previous attendee I fell in love with the work that create and cultivate did because it advanced women and advanced people to like like be happier and be more fulfilled and make more money. And so like now the focus isn't like on me and what I'm doing. It's more of like how I'm doing things. Is that paying back to that mission? Right? Are are events growing? Are we reaching more people? Are we helping more people? Are testimonials and satisfaction rates higher? Like it's more about that and the success of the business because the impact that the business makes versus like, oh, this is going to make Marina feels good, you know? Mhm. So tell me how you got started with create and cultivate. Like let's go way back to you more as first I want to go to your first trip into entrepreneurship and then we'll get into that. So tell me where you were working right before you became an entrepreneur and then what was that step into entrepreneurship? Yeah. So I had a sales job previously like right out of college and then I uh got pregnant with my son at 23. Sebastian who's nine now. He's the best. And um is that a surprise or was that planned? Oh such a surprise. Such a surprise. Yeah. Was not planning to get pregnant at 23. Got pregnant, quickly got married, quickly got divorced. I was like in a really toxic relationship and took a year off of work and I was like, "Okay, what am I going to do?" I went to school for marketing and business communication. And so I was like, "Oh, my dream has always been to work for like a Google or an Amazon or a Yahoo." And I ended up landing a job at Yahoo. And that was like for me the big like when people think of like accolades, that was like my big moment, right? I was a single mom. I just landed this, you know, job that was paying me my first salary. It was like $175,000. I was $25 years old. I was huge. So happy. Like so happy. Benefits. They did Thursday manicures. They changed your oil. Like like Yahoo was the best. Let's go back. Like truly, I'm like, what am I doing? I'm exhausted. But it was unbelievable. And that to me, I was like, oh, like I can do these things. I can build my own life. I can, you know, take care of my son and like all of this stuff. And so that was my job right before I became an entrepreneur. So I worked at Yahoo, Yahoo News and Tumblr. And all I focused on was building digital media campaigns for some of the largest brands from like Walmart and Hulu to LVMH, like you name it. Just kind of focused on bringing those launches and products and storylines to life. My last role was at Yahoo News and my department got cut. They lost funding. So I got laid off. It was December 2019 and my husband's like, "Listen, like you really love blogging and and like being an influencer, like why don't you go full-time?" And I was like, "Yeah, this is my chance. Like, I'm going to do this." And I remember I like announced it. I was like, "I'm a lifestyle blogger now. Like, you know, come to me for all the things." and hired for one month and they Lori almost took me out like I was I I was like if someone else asks me what I'm wearing or what outfit I have or like what lip I can't do it like this is so hard and to find the links and say I was like I can't do this like that is not for me either when people ask me I'm like I'm not gatekeeping I just literally hate doing this so I just I can't find you the link like just like I'm the worst but it actually was much harder than I anticipated. So, I give a lot of creators so much credit of just, oh my god, yes. And so, I decided that didn't work, which was like a pivot for me and kind of embarrassing if I would like be honest. And if anyone's listening of like being uncomfortable with pivoting, that was me. Like, I was more embarrassed that I had to decide that I hated blogging than I was embarrassed that I got laid off because I felt like, oh, people are like watching me fail. Nobody cared. You know what I mean? Like it's just like it was a story that I made up in my head. And so I was like, "Okay, I'm going to start this company called Empowered Confidence and we're going to do events for women and help them build their confidence." I signed a deal with Reebok. I signed a deal with the YW um yeah YW.CA. Then COVID happened within a couple of weeks of signing those things. And even for Reebok, like we were doing these events, we had to refund all pe all the tickets back. 300 tickets, refund it all back. It was so bad. And then I decided to create programs essentially to help female founders build their personal brand, make money off of it, and really like just like humanize marketing. Some of the things that I did at Yahoo, a lot of small business owners don't have the funds to like do. And so I was like, how can I offer that to to women and help them? And so that's what I did leading up to going to my create and cultivate events. I'm hearing like different skill sets kind of transfer. So where what I want to ask you for anybody who like you know has events or was thinking of events, how did you get those partnerships? Like how did you know who to go to? Were they paying you? What did that look like? How did you approach that? Yeah. So I think a lot of parts in life is like a little bit of like craziness and delusion and then for sure it's like luck, you know what I mean? Like I was like I I would love to do this. I I Reebok was headquartered in Boston and I was like I really want to connect with them. My cousin did not believe that I could be a successful entrepreneur and so he was like can you just give me your resume I'll give it to you know he works at Yahoo he's like I'll just give it to my like boss or like circle it around and I was like no I can do this like I will thrive as you know entrepreneur and he's like all right let me connect you with this person at Reebok maybe you know you could do something there and I connected this person said no they connected me with another person she said yes and she's like let's do it like let's create these events so it just like happen. YWCA was a little bit different because um I really wanted to focus on women. I really wanted to focus on women that were struggling and homeless. I really wanted to talk to lived in shelters and young like girls in middle school. So that was like a passion of mine. And so I reached out and I put together this whole program of like how I can impact these women. And so that was literally just shooting my shot. Like but like my story is all just shooting my shot. Like I'm just constantly being like, "Hey," like trying to just put myself out there. It's usually because I'm I'm I don't do that in person as much. I get a little bit nervous in person, believe it or not. Um so I would rather just like DM someone and if it works, it works and if it doesn't, I'm like I kind of forget about it, you know? Did you always feel that way though? Or tell me about like the beginning when you're first firing off some of these emails like, "Oh god, what are they gonna think?" No, I even to this day I'm like still scared shitless. But I just like what do I have to lose? You know what I mean? Like why? And I'm always I have this thing of like why not me? And I think it goes back to this work like ethic that I have. I know I will be able to accomplish something and I I don't ever really let people down, especially in my professional life. Like I just get this thing done. And so I know that like if I can bet on myself, I just need to convince this other person to bet on me and it's kind of a game over from there. And so that's kind of been what my like delusional side of is like, well, why not me? Like why can't I do it? You know, and so I do like definitely like if someone's thinking, oh, I could never do that. No, no, you can. Like just like prep your emails, think about who you want to reach out to. And my biggest thing is like what value can I provide to them? It's less about me. It's more about like, well, I know I can do this, but how is this going to help the person that I'm talking to or the organization that I'm talking to? And that has always been like my motto, and I know we'll eventually talk about it, but like even getting into create and cultivate and like being a speaker there, like it was never like I want to speak. It was more of like here's the value that I can provide to your community, you know? Yes. Yeah. This is this is like one of the biggest changes in my life and when things started to when you actually start to get things and people are interested is when you realize that it's a person on the other side like it's a person who actually is interested in real relationships and people who are interested in them and also that it's a business who has needs and they you know need to hit numbers and they need to make sales. So thinking always of the person that you're pitching in terms of what do they need and how can we help them get to that like how can my goal help them get to that goal and that's like changed my life literally for everything. I learned that through pitching magazine covers and it was like the craziest thing once you unlock that you start to get yeses um and receive it better. People like receive your your you know pitches or your emails so much better because they're like oh they're not just thinking of themselves. Totally. And I can imagine you guys get so many pitches and you know, one of the things is like make it easy for them to say yes. Like let them see how this can benefit and have it all laid out and take the work away and and put all that work on your plate. Take it from them and that's going to be a a way faster. Yes. 100%. Okay. So, where were you like emotionally and mentally through that portion when you said I'm going to be an entrepreneur? Like how were you feeling? Were you feeling super confident or did you feel a lot of like were you feeling really like self-doubt? What was going on for you? Yeah. And I'm curious to hear kind of how you think about this, but I think naivveness is so bliss. Like I wish I could go back to that, you know, 28, 29year-old Marina who was like, I'm going to be an entrepreneur and I'm going to do this because like I just saw so many unbelievable opportunities and like it was just like limitless. And so yes, I was scared again like I I w I was nervous and all that stuff, but I just figured like I'm going to do it. And when I did start, I had this like timeline of I'm going to do it for three months, and if it doesn't work for three months, I'm going to go back and get a full-time job. And I will tell you, the second I removed that timeline, it was like, game on, baby. Like, we are we're not stopping. Like, we're going to keep figuring it out. And I I loved that I didn't have a plan B. This was like my plan A, B, C, and D. Like, I'm doing this. I got to figure it out. But that vision evolved. And so, I was really scared early on. I was very like unsure about what I was going to do and how it was going to work out. But I just kind of like lived in the moment, which is so different than what I'm living now. I'm very much not living in the moment. I'm living in like three, four, five years of business planning. But like I was living in the moment of like, okay, I'm going to create this program. I created it. Okay, I'm going to launch this program. I launched it. Okay, great. This program worked. I'm going to launch it again. I like it was very like I was just collecting data as I as I progressed. Whereas now, something I do wish I did be in the past of like kind of like future focused and future planning where I could sit down and think like, okay, well, if this works, how am I going to make more money? How am I going to like market it more? How am I going to reach more people? Like all of that stuff. I just I was too young. I was too early. Like I didn't I didn't know to think like that, you know? And so I would say like going back to that, yes, I was terrified. I but I was figuring it out like as I went and I really like missed that kind of you know. Oh yeah. I I'm so and I'm so grateful for that time period in my life. I'm very much like you where I'm just like a fast start. I'll go like shoot my shot. And now that I'm getting older and have had a lot more experience, I'm like I'm more hesitant because I'm aware of like all the things that come with the things I'm going to start. You know, I'm I'm actually so grateful that I was still like super naive when I started this like started raising money for this product because if I would have known what goes into products like physical products compared to what I came from like the digital world, masterminds, speaking books, like it's very different. So, I'm glad that I I'm so glad I'm in it now, but I wouldn't have started if I had all of the the details. So, I'm grateful to my past dumbass self. It's great. Yeah. No, 100%. If I knew what it was going to take to be the CEO of Crate and Cultivate, I fear that I would not be the CEO of Crate and Cultivate. Like, I would not have thought so hard. We wouldn't. Why would we? We would. There's no way. Like, I I just I wouldn't have understood the value because it's like Yeah. It's It would sound crazy that I'm like signing up for this willingly. Yeah. But it it's like, you know, it's it's so insane because the things that are like that that we would say no to if we actually had all the details, those are the requirements for us to be the women that we see in our heads like that we know we came here to be. And so for you, what are some of the things that you know you feel have really really cuz I can only imagine like the version of you that's sitting here right now like you're so [\h__\h] proud of her of like going for it and going through the things. What What are some things that you've gone through in this last year that you feel like have just like really transformed the way that you are and who you how you think? Yeah, it's actually like wild when you think of how much you can evolve in such a short period of time. You know, for for me it's been, you know, we acquired Create and Cultivate back December of 2020 for And so it's only been a little bit over uh a year. And so in that time, I bought a company, which was the first time I've ever bought a company from private equity at that. So it wasn't like a a small business to small business. No. Like even figuring that out is like what the what? I have no idea. I literally there were words that they were like valuation and this and assets and I was like yeah like my money like yeah I was like I would sit on these calls and I would act as if I knew what the hell was going on and like I would figure it out as the conversations were going and so I literally had to like change who I was in a way that like it just I just didn't know that I had that in me, right? And I would always get off these calls. I still do it to this day where I'm like I will text Jaclyn or I'll text my husband and be like, "Hey, I know this is silly for me to say, but I'm really proud that I'm figuring this out. Like, I can't believe I I know how to do this. Like, how do I know how to do this? I have no idea." I feel that so deeply. I'm so glad you're saying this because I want people women to know listening like you don't you're on these calls not knowing. You're not knowing. And I I really do wish more people knew that because I know that most people, especially women, there's a stat that I have to send it to you after, but I think it's like men will apply to 100% of all jobs, even if they have like 50% of the qualifications, where women will wait until they have 100% of qualifications to apply to the job. And it's so like backwards. Why would I know how to buy a company? I've never done it before. So, I would make myself think that I would know, you know, and I just wish more people like took chances and learned along the way. So, I would say like, yeah, buying a company I didn't know, raising money from VC that I didn't know, raising money from angels, I didn't know how to do that. I would say like out of all of those things, leading a team is the most humbling experience I have ever gone through. that being a mom at 23 like leading a team is really takes the cake because it is you want to talk about ego you want to talk about personalities you want to talk about energy like it's not about you and like to be a good leader takes a lot of work a lot more work than I would have ever anticipated right like I just always assumed like hey I'm like a friendly people's person I'm very open I'm warm I'm welcoming like this is going to translate all the time until maybe you don't have a warm exciting news to share that now I have to have this tough conversation and I don't want to have this tough conversation you know and so I think out of everything the one thing that really like evolved me or something that kind of like I wasn't prepared for anything would be the leading of a team and growing that team alongside me growing as well is definitely like a a big milestone that I I don't think I had anticipated I'm just like feeling everything you're saying because those are those are the things that have really like rocked my world as well. And I felt the same way. I was like, "Oh, I'll be a great like I'm AI'll be a great leader. Like this is awesome." And it's like rocks your world because sometimes the personalities that you actually really need in your business are so different than what you would maybe know how to work with than anyone you've ever really talked to. And it's like it's learning all new languages for however many team members you have. It's like, "Oh, you speak Greek. Oh, you speak Italian. Oh, I have to speak totally different to all of you." To figure it out. Yeah. And just understanding people's like like love languages that you're not actually like married to like, "Oh, okay. You actually want me to say good job over and over again. I don't need that, but you do. So now I have to do that. But I can't say it too much because then you're going to feel like you're doing every like it's just this whole game of um just like personalities and it's it's something I'm just like really excited to dive into and I'm like okay how do I become a better leader? Um I got a leadership coach. I have a therapist. I'm reading books. Like I'm just like I'm trying to do the things so I could just like get better and I just learn along the way which is amazing. That's so much more than most people do. So, I know that your team feels that, you know, and then they get to they get to learn those skills, too, which is that is what makes a really great leader is that they those leadership skills transfer down to your team. So, I love I love that you're doing that. I actually would love to I'm like I'll I'll chat about your coach later. Okay. Tell me about what that looked like when you even made the connection with Jacqueline to be like, "Hey, what's going on? Like, I think I want to buy this company." What did I don't even know the whole behind the scenes of that conversation. Yeah, it was so crazy now I look at it because so I so I'm in Austin right now for South by Southwest. I in um August or March 2022, I was in line at 9:30 in the morning waiting to get into my second create and cultivate event. It I was like got ready. I was waiting in line. I'm anxious. I'm by myself. And I just like remember going to these events and being like this is such an amazing place. Like knowing that I came from corporate and I was going to a lot of conferences, there was just like nothing like that before. I would always see Jacqueline and she was like this gorgeous hardworking person that I would like read about and at the time she had already sold create and cultivate to private equity. So she was there and like but not operating the business anymore. And so I think that I had seen her at a very like different stage in her life than like maybe I would have if if I started going uh before CO. And so I remember like I went I would introduce myself. I kept going. I flew out to all the events. I you know would message talent team and um eventually we had a mutual friend that connected me with Jacqueline personally after I had spoke to spoken at create and cultivate and she's like hey I think you should be on Marina's podcast. And so she was on my podcast January 2023 and I was driving one day, Lori, and I had this like idea and I was running my own masterminds and retreats and all this stuff, but I was like, how cool would it be if Jacqueline and I started a mastermind together? Why did I have that idea? Why did I think she would want to start a M? No idea. I have no idea. And I remember sending her a DM and I said, "Hey," and I've literally said, "Hey, I'm gonna send this to you before my brain talks me out of it. Have you ever considered starting a mastermind?" Now that I know Jacqueline is just so funny. She's like, "Yeah, why? What are you thinking?" Totally. I was, okay, that's crazy. But knowing her, that's how that's what I know of her. But I didn't know that at first, so I could see like Yeah. You're like, "What?" I'm just like, "Oh my god." And I used to always call her by her full name. So I'm like, "Guys, Jacqueline Johnson like me back," which is crazy now. And I know she loves that part of the story, but I literally was like, "Jacine Johnson messaged me back. I got to like really like bring this home." And I remember sending her voice memos. I was like, "Hey, this is what I've been doing. Here's the power of these like types of businesses. Here's the profit and like margins I was doing." and like and I I was trying to figure out a way to like position myself as this like expert since I know publicly she has these accolades, right? And so she's probably looking at me like, who is this girl? And not because I was less than. I think for anybody that's listening, a lot of the times we hold ourselves back from reaching out to people that look like they're further ahead from us because like maybe we don't have the same accolades or the accomplishments that they have, but like my skill sets are so much different than Jacquine and that's why we compliment each other and like she might have, you know, sold two businesses and done all that stuff, but like my accomplishments are like equally as valuable. And I think that is something you just should always remember when you're walking into these rooms, especially rooms that are bigger than what you think you deserve to be in. There's so much that you can offer and I don't think that like we kind of remind ourselves of that enough. Um, but on that voice memo is really funny. I was like, "Here are the things I can do. I saw that you launched a fundraising master class and I saw that you dropped the price within a week, which leads me to think that you couldn't sell it. I can help you market that. And I like literally like bashed her without even meaning to. And like don't ever try to do that to me because it will not translate the way that she took it. Like literally, and she was like, "Yeah, you're right. I like didn't market it, but like it was just like something I was trying like out." It was just so funny. She's like, "But I would love to chat with you. Ali Webb also would be interested." So Ali Webb's the founder of Dry Bar for anyone listening. And I was like, at that point I was like, "Oh my god, Jacqueline Johnson and Ally Web, like this is crazy." And so we jumped on a call and we decided that we're going to start the Blueprint Mastermind. And during that time, I was just like, "Okay, here like as a consumer, this is what I would want. Here are the type of speakers I want to listen to. Here are the rooms that I like need to be in. So let's create it. And here's the price point." Like I just like operated that whole entire business. And it was unbelievable. And I was flying home from the event and Jacqueline voice memoed me. This was our first event like a few months after launching it and she was like, "Hey, you know, private equity is looking to sell Korean cultivate. Would you want to buy it with me?" And I remember like, and I say this story because it's like so funny. I like never used to fly first class, but I was flying first class home from this event and I was laying down. Okay, this is like when you think of your future self. This was my future self, right? Like I didn't belong in this room. could not believe I just crushed that event. I can't believe I'm in first class. Like all of these things that were like so big, you know, that I had like manifested all this stuff. I remember like laying down. I got this voice memo and I like for I you know when you'd want to jump up and like you're just pressing and you like seat is slowly getting up and I'm like I just want to react to because it was just like it was the craziest experience. And the reason why I say it was the craziest experience and and hopefully this resonates. It's like I did not go into this partnership thinking I was going to eventually buy Create and Cultivate. I didn't know that was an option. Right. I think we we dream as big as we think we're worthy of. And not that I didn't think I wasn't worthy of create and cultivate. I didn't know that was like again in the horizon. So all I did was show up as myself, right? I wasn't trying to pretend to be anybody else. I operated the blueprint exactly how I would. I like led the team exactly how I would. I just showed up as myself and that paid off within itself. And I think that's like the if there's anything someone takes away from this episode is like just like fully show up as yourself and things will fall into place as they should. Like you don't have to force anything. That is so true. And just, you know, because again, it kind of goes back to the people running these things are people and they want relationships and we want to work with people that we enjoy working with who are hard workers who want to add value. And like yes, of course, there's always like, you know, intention behind different things or you have some goals, but you have to also have the goal of just wanting to bring value and really help people. And people feel that. I'm telling you like there's there's no doubt why that happened is because of how you went into it, you know, and just like without attachment to it sounds like like this will be great. This sounds awesome. This is already fun. I'm having a great time. Like yeah, I'm meeting all these amazing people and I'm learning so much along the way. That was enough for me. Totally. Okay. So, you guys also have a big event coming up and first I want to talk about like who is the create and cultivate like customer? Who is that woman? What is she like? What is she struggling with? Yeah. So, it's really unique. We have different products and different I say products but different like events for different based off of their journey. So, we help women like from launch to legacy or from ideiation to like exiting. And so have different products and experiences depending on where they are. So, seven figure founders, six figure founders, moms, we have a mom retreat coming up. And so our goal like no matter what for every single event is to advance women and we do that through like giving them access to resources, giving them access to tools that they maybe not know exist that could help them both personally and professionally. Introduce them to new products that they would be obsessed with, right? Introduce them to new people that would change the trajectory of both their personal and professional life. Like that is our number one goal and we do that through different types of formats of events. But she is ambitious. Like we say we support ambitious women. Like she is this like hungry woman that is looking for more in all aspects of her life and she doesn't want to fit in this box like that. That's our girl. What do you think that you have seen is a through line of like what women are struggling with the most in their businesses? Maybe let's start with the six figure. Let's go like let's let's start beginning of business. What are you seeing that they struggle with the most and what do they need? Yeah. I think it's overwhelm of where to begin. Like it's always like, "Oh, I have all these ideas. I have all these ideas." Like I don't know where to begin. And so it's hard sometimes to get to that seven figure or eight figure or anything or even like climb the ladder in corporate when one you don't know where you're actually trying to go and why you're trying to go to that that point, right? Like what is that goal? If it's a million dollars revenue, like why are you trying to get to that million dollars, right? So understanding that. But I would say the number one thing is like overwhelm from like all of the information and all of the things that you would do to start. Okay. And then once you get to like that seven figure founder, how do the problems change and what does that look like? Yeah, I think for seven figure founders, the biggest problems is one maintaining the seven figures and like continuing it year over year. Two would be profitability. a lot of the times we're generating revenue but we're not actually thinking about the type of profit that we're making and the margins. So we're spending way more than we're we're making. And so then the question is well how do I scale? How do I get more clients? And and then we dive into well what are your revenue streams? How like where is your money going? And so that really is like the sweet spot of seven figure founders is figuring out like one how do you scale and then what's next? A lot of seven figure founders that we work with are thinking about raising money. they're thinking about potentially exiting. What does that look like? And so those are conversations that you don't necessarily have early on at six figures. I do wish sometimes women were around more conversations about raising money before they ever think about raising money or exiting because the information I know now, Lori, would have changed the trajectory of my life early on. But like I just wasn't in the rooms that they were being had. You know what I mean? And so I think that's kind of where seven figure founders are just thinking about like what is their next step. Oh my god, that's that's one of the biggest things that I feel like you guys do is you expose the more entry level to bigger conversations which which has two things, right? It can feel overwhelming but it also at the same time is necessary. So, and that's what why I feel like you guys approach it in such a beautiful way where I did not in my journey like get to hear a lot of things about exiting or building your company like to exit had no clue what that even was until I got into those bigger rooms where I was like well [\h__\h] like did I build this right what do I what's my focus so you guys are building to exit yes okay so tell me what goes into like What what do you look at? How do you set up for a company that you want to build to exit? What are some things people need to know? Yeah. So, biggest things are going to be what are your margins? Like how are you actually making money at the end of the year? A lot of the times people will do, you know, smaller for us like smaller events and they're like, "Oh, but I have an 80% profit margin." It's like, "Okay, great. That means you keep what $10,000 verse maybe having a mass like a massive massive event like a festival or a big conference but you only make you know 20% but that 20% is actually $5 million. So just thinking about like what is your actual profit and how much is your IBIDA at the end like what are you taking home after all of that. So I think that's one. Two. The biggest thing I would say like probably I would move that up to one is can your product can your experience be rinse and repeat? No matter what like without the founder, without the CEO, could someone take this product and recreate it and scale it? If the answer is yes, then you have true enterprise value, right? It's continuing to grow. There's profit. You can continue to take this format and actually make it bigger. So that would be like the most important thing. A lot of the times people are building businesses that are like truly blood, sweat and tears of the founder and then the founder goes away and so does the business. That is not great and cultivate is doing. And although there's talentled businesses like you'll see Jaclyn and I all the time you'll see different talent, the business exists outside of us and that's the most important thing when you're thinking about exiting a business. And I would say the last thing is just like think about who would want to buy your business. It doesn't typically need to be like the traditional person. It could be another events business that wants to integrate that format of an event you have and and put it there. Maybe it's another beverage company. Maybe it's a different retailer. Like thinking about like the bigger pictures of some options, I think just helps you be in the same areas as those people. Uh just so you're on their radar. So this is where it's like people are probably super hungry to get in, you know, come to your event, get in rooms with you guys so that you can understand, especially if you're building. I feel like you're you guys are so good with like product businesses too right now, which is awesome. Tell me about festival like what can we expect because it's so freaking exciting. I literally am giddy. I know. Like I'm so excited I get to speak there, but it's so funny. I was just getting a ticket. I was like, I'm going to be an attendee. I'm bringing all my girlfriends. like we were already planning and I was like, well, yes, yes, I would love to speak as well. Yes, I was already coming. No, seriously, that we're so grateful that you were already coming. That is like it always means so much to us. Um, so when we were thinking about kind of create and cultivate 2.0 and what we wanted to bring to life, we really thought about like, well, what is this white space? Like, what is missing in the business landscape for women in general, right? And so we removed the women aspect and we're like, "Okay, well most large events kind of like really suck, right? For sponsors, there's not true ROI. And for attendees, there's not true ROI. Like I go to a conference of two, three, four, 5,000 people and I'm like, I maybe meet five people max." And I'm like, "Oh, cool. They were cool." But there was no like true connection or intention around it. And so we were like, "How can we change that?" So we thought about blending in this like B2B and BTOC conference. So a businessto business conference or a business to consumer conference. So you could be a business owner, an investor, early stage career woman, you could be a student, a buyer or a seller and coming together to this like massive experience that makes sure people connect. So it's a two-day festival in LA. Our first one is happening July 19th and 20th of 2025. We have over 2,000 attendees coming, over 200 speakers. We have workshops, mentor sessions, panels, keynotes. We have a live musical performer, which I'm really excited about. I'm very, very excited about this. Some of the biggest names in business and entrepreneurship that you'll see. We have four different stages. Um, so you'll hear everything. This is really where like business, innovation, tech, culture, health, and wellness really collide from a content and a communications perspective. But what I'm really excited about is, you know, going back to that ROI and kind of like events kind of sucking sometimes and being overwhelming. We created something called connect. And this is our algorithm that we it's kind of like matchmaking for uh professionals. And so you'll go in person, you'll create your profile when you buy a ticket and you create your category. So maybe you're interested in marketing and you're interested in learning more about influencer marketing and maybe you're interested in like getting a job in influencer marketing. So, you're going to collect like pick those in your profile. You could pick a bunch of things. The other person on the other end is going to do the same and they're going to pick their, you know, their values and interest. Those two people actually connect um their algorithm says, "Hey, you actually should meet." And so you're going to have a curated list of people that are able to provide value to you. Whether it's helping you find a mentor, find a job, find an investor, or just maybe you just want to talk about like life and motherhood and burnout, like whatever that is, you can match with people. So we'll have this matchmaking program in person. It's the largest matchmaking program for women that exists. Um we'll have over 10,000 meetings in person, one-on-one meetings that are 15 minutes. And we're so excited about it. That is so cool. This is awesome because so many people go and I if you're not naturally like extroverted or if you haven't been working on it, you're probably really not going to meet who you need to meet because you're going to go to the people that look like you and seem easier and that's not going to help you because most of the people you need to meet you're probably intimidated by. So, I love that it's like an um like it's force connection in the best way with the right people. So that's like vital at these events because that's what they're for. Like you want to go. Yes. You want to learn, but we know that events are like the gold is your connections and who you meet. Yeah. No, we're really excited and the sponsors that we have and activations in person, it's like it's just going to be so much fun. We were like, how can we make a business conference more fun, you know, and make it a festival? Like that's how we're going to do it. So fun. Well, I am literally so excited. It's on the calendar and it's like a highlight. So, we also have a coupon code that we get to give everybody. It is Lori 20 off. So, L O R I20 FF. We laughed about the coupon code. Just Lori 20 off. Yes. 20% off the ticket. And what's the date? July 19th and 20th in LA 2025. And there's three different tickets. You can do GA VIP or golden ticket which gives you a separate club um access which is our dinner two nights before which is going to be amazing. So fun. And I've been to some of those dinners and they're awesome. Like if you really like that is where you get to meet really incredible people really drop in. You know I still like know one of the girls like she's been oh my gosh she's like been in my life ever since one of the very first create and cultivate dinners that I went to. Like she's still in my life. It's so crazy. And I know you guys know this like honestly more than a lot of people but like there is nothing like these connections that you make. Like they are they become your business partners, your best friends, your accountability buddies, your investors. Like there's just so much opportunity that comes out of it and you just like have no idea until you're in those rooms. It's so cool. People don't understand you. You have to be in these rooms. Like I will go down in my grave like saying go to events. Like that's what it'll say on my grave. Like go to events because they're vital. Like if you think that you want a thriving business, it's all about your relationships and you're not going to get the relationships you need in your same daily routine. Like, and it's not the same as DMing. That can come in handy for sure. I've absolutely gotten some amazing things through DMing. But people, it moves so much faster when people can put an actual face to a name. You get to meet them. You feel their energy in person. like it's gamechanging. It will speed up everything that you're doing. So you guys go and check it out. It's in the show notes. Coupon code is below. And Marina, thank you so much for coming on the show. Thank you for having me. Thank you guys. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.