Hey busy girls, I have decided to step out of my studio and into my home to prove to you that it really can be done. You can get a crazy workout without having to be at the gym or in a studio. So, if you're trapped because of snow or any reason at all, there's no excuses anymore. So, I call this workout my crazy kicking tens because we are going to be kicking like maniacs. So, you're going to start out with 10 on each side. I've I've taken a few of my favorite moves that I've learned or picked up um along the way, and we're just going to combine it with some great abs and shoulder moves. So, you're going to start with a reverse lunge and kick. I'm going to start with my left leg back, and it's going to go reverse lunge into a high kick. Tap your hand. It's going to go 10 on your left side and then you're going to go 10 on your right side. So in between those, you're going to do 10 knees to triceps. So you're going to get down on the ground and it's going to go one-sided. So you're going to go 10 on your left side. See how I'm not putting my foot down? 10 on your left side, 10 on your right side. So then you're going to come right back up and we're going to do a roundhouse kick across your body with a sumo side kick. So I'm going to start with a 10 on my right side. So it's going to go roundhouse kick and squat down and kick. So this is number two, three, four. So then you're going to go to the other side. Roundhouse kick. Roundhouse kick. So if you see, I'm getting down into that squat. So now that I'm out of breath, we're going to go down and we're going to do 10 up downs. So straight back to the ground and low plank position. Walk yourself up. This is two. Three. So you do that 10 times. Your next set is going to be a split jump, split jump, squat jump, inchworm into a push-up. So, it's going to look like this. It's going to go and we're going to do this 10 times because we really like that theme. Now, this is a really tough one to get through. So, if you can only start with six or eight, go for it, but try to work your way up to 10. So it goes split jump, split jump, squat jump, inchworm, pushup. Now for those of you who are really advanced, you can try split, split, squat, inchworm, pio, pushup, back up. So those continue for 10. Catch your breath and it's going to go 10 knees to triceps. One more time. So the 10 on each side. You can go one side. You can do this in a low plank also and then 10 on the other side. And then we've got for your very last one is going to go 20 hopscotch squat jump. So it starts low squat wide. So it's going to be feet shoulderwidth apart. A little bit wider than shoulder width. Squat down. Jump up. Bring that foot in. Squat down. Jump up. Bring that foot in. So just for 20. So it counts one, two, three. Like that. So we're going to try to make that through five times. That is going to be your challenge. Five times through. So, if you want to start, you can start with three, but your heart rate is going to be up if you can't tell that I'm already breathing hard. So, your challenge five times through for all of those. And I promise you, you will feel the burn and you can definitely pull about 20 minutes out of your day in order to get that done. All right, guys. I cannot wait to hear about this one cuz these are some of my all-time favorite moves that you can absolutely do in your own home. All right, I'll talk to you soon. Bye-bye.