

=== FILE: 3 Mindset Shifts to Receive More Joy + Make Manifestation Work For You with Hannah Eve [rk77zLQeI1w].txt ===

 sometimes when you're in personal development and spirituality, like, you can just have these great times in your life where you're going for a walk and you are just getting download after download, you're getting chills, you're on one, you're just like in a great place in your life. And during this time, it's like, the reason I haven't been like meditating or journaling is because it's like, I go to those practices and I'm like, I got nothing. That's where it's hard to keep going back to those things. Maybe there's not space right now. Maybe you're not leaving space for God to come in. That's all good reminders, yeah. When your schedule's packed full and you're consuming and reading and personal growth podcast and spiritual book, if you're like suffocating everything, where's the room? So give yourself that space. Hannah, welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much. I'm so excited to be here. And you have your own podcast now, which is so exciting. So now you're just on the other side, which is now I get to interview you, which is so fun. So I want to start there because you just started a podcast called How Good? And I want to know, first of all, where the name came from, but did you always want a podcast or where did that come from? I actually got on YouTube when I was 12. Doing what? So makeup tutorials. Oh my God. And there's actually a video. I was showing someone this morning when I was 14, I was talking all about positivity and experiencing life through that lens and the importance of a positive outlook. So I've always loved speaking. Makeup was just, I think, something I was passionate about at the time, and this was very much in the beauty tutorials era. So yes, they've always loved communicating with people. I've always loved the digital space. I've wanted to start a podcast for a really long time. I started one, I think five-ish years ago, and I put out a couple of episodes, but the agency really consumed my life, my marketing agency, so I didn't have the bandwidth to give it the attention that it deserved. But I've been involved with the marketing agency with a lot of podcasters, so I feel like I've been in this kind of confidential and others, so I feel like I've been in the podcast space but behind the camera. But as it pertains to what I'm speaking about now, manifestation and just different chapters of life, I've wanted to do that for a number of years. So I'm so excited that I've finally created the space to be able to prioritize that. The name How Good is a shortened version of the phrase, Show Me How Good It Can Be. I was sitting actually in synagogue this past summer, and after a really challenging period of my life and a really challenging breakup, my life was really starting to just like turn around and everything was starting to fall into place. I felt like myself again, this new really beautiful relationship was coming together. And this phrase came to me and I realized that I was trying so much to live in the present, which was the right thing to do. But I wasn't even letting myself entertain the best case scenario. Normally I catastrophize, I have anxiety about like everyone dying and everything falling to shit. And I think that's just like that. Can I swear on the podcast? I think that's just like a product of I grew up with a lot of death and grief and just been like a lot of loss. So I that that abandonment wound manifests as fear of loss of everything. And I'm like, wow, you know, I realized that I hadn't even let myself go there because I thought if I experienced even the slightest bit of like pleasure from imagining it, then it not actually like like working out like that would be such a painful reality. But then I told myself, I'm like, no, like show me how good it can be. And when I was sitting sitting there, the phrase that actually initially came to me was show me how good it can get. And I like needed to get this out of me. So I'm like running around looking for pen and paper. My phone was dead. So I wanted to write it down and I started writing show me how good it can get. Show me how good it can get. And then something told me to change the phrase to be show me how good it can be. So I'm like, why did that change? And I psychoanalyze everything. So I'm like, what does that mean? And then I realized that to get something, the opposite of getting something is losing it. And to get something, it's a very like final destination. It's like, I don't have it and then I'm going to get it. B is it becomes part of your identity and it's a word that's like completely eternal. So show me how good it can be. It means that no matter what happens, you can never lose it. Like no matter what falls away or where life takes you. To me, it meant that not only can it just be that good forever or it never has to be as dark as it once was, no matter how challenging life becomes. But that the version of you that you get in process, in pursuit, that that's what you take with you forever and no one and nothing can ever show you of that. So that's that's where that came from. And then I shared that at a dinner I had at my house for close friends and that that phrase just stuck with me. So then when I decided to do the podcast, that name kind of came about and then I shortened it to how good. And now here we are. I love that. I was telling you before we started recording. I had a friend years ago that we'd always start a mastermind with how good can you take it? And that resonated so much. Like that's why I'm so obsessed with your, your topic and your podcast name. Because I think that we resisted it so much for exactly what you said I know in my life, I feel like I have pushed away so much of like the joy that has been present because it's like, if I enjoy it too much, I'm going to get used to this and this is fleeting and this might not be real. And this is like, there's so many parts of my life that I've just spent striving, making sure that I maintain it or like being afraid of it, like actually being afraid of success or, or good things happening. But also, um, you know, through, through the years, I've had like massive fears of losing people and losing relationships. And I think now at this point in my life, we've, we lost someone really close to us. And I think it actually became such a lesson of like sometimes you're a worst case scenario and your worst fears happening. You actually get a lot of like lessons in beauty on the other side, but sometimes you have to go through those things to understand that. So did something for you happen that kind of flipped that for you to be able to be present and start letting it in? Like what were some of the moments for you that you're like, Oh, I need to start letting it in. And how did you start doing that? It's a really great question. You know, when you initially shared that with me, that how good can you take it? What came to mind? It's like, I have chills. Like it can be as good as you'll allow it to the con. And I love that. How good can you take it? Cause it means to me, like how good can you allow it to be without self-destructing without, without like, how can you take it? Full sabotage. Yeah. Like how much can you handle? Because there's an endless amount of love, money, abundance, community, friendships, beauty, like whatever you want, passion, you know, spirituality. Like I think people just focus on chasing all of those things. It's like, I was just typing this because I, I let a workshop and I this what's happened, I was typing to the community this morning. I'm like, it's like you're standing in front of a faucet, an endless faucet saying you want more water. Like if you're, if you're, you know, it's like, if you're a 12 ounce glass and you want a thousand ounces of water, the water isn't the problem. Like focus on yourself, expand yourself, focus on what you can carry. You don't need to chase any more water. Like it will flow endlessly. And that really came to mind when you told me that phrase. So to answer your question, I think I've been searching or desiring a relationship and paired with that a sense of family, probably for the majority of my life. Like since I was a small child, and I think a lot of us as women, we fantasize what marriage and children will look like. And I think probably in a way that men can't really understand, you know, for sure. And especially programs since we're three years old. Right. You see like a little girl with her baby doll, you know, like from such a young age, we desire that. And I felt that I thought that I was with the person that I was going to marry and have children with. And I was very much a part of his family. So it was so much bigger than just the relationship. It was the experience of a family that I never really had. And the whole thing fell away. And I realized a lot of things. I realized first of all that nothing is a given. Like nothing is promised. No one, no relationship, not tomorrow. And I think that sometimes we think that we're in relationships that will 100 percent last forever. Like I thought that the only reason that we wouldn't have children is if one of us like died, I thought there was nothing like in this physical world that wouldn't interfere with that. And then there was nothing in this physical world that I could do to keep it. So I realized that number one, most of the things we worry about never actually come to be like, and then most of the things that actually we do have to worry about, we never thought about once, you know, they're things that we didn't even really consider. Yes, sometimes like you mentioned, our worst fears come to come to be and then we have to face that. But I just the way that I was living just wasn't working specifically in the situation that I was describing when my, you know, my now boyfriend, we're coming together. I knew intuitively that the only thing that would work was taking it day by day and truly living in the present moment, making the most of every single day that I was given and focusing on becoming the best version of myself. So that's what I did. So how do you deal with when those thoughts come in though, like in the intrusive thoughts and like as you go deeper, maybe because it sounds like relationships are like one of the main things that you dealt with. In your experience, like a lot of people, it's either some people have it very career, it's like career and money, maybe that's always been a problem or relationships have always been a struggle. So for you with relationships, is that the main one you would say? Yeah. Money and career is usually come that's come pretty easily to me. I made I think a million dollars with her. Seven I was 22 or 23. It's been, I would say that comes easy. Yeah, I would say yes. I've been on since I was little. It's relationships 100% for most. And then the whole concept of food, my body and eating would be the second thing. OK, but those are the two. But if I had to pick one for sure relationships, heartbreak. OK, yeah. So how have you been able to the deeper that you go? Yeah. Into a relationship and the more that you're like, whoa, this is I mean, this is better than I could have even possibly imagined. Are there moments where you're like, oh, this is where it all falls apart. Oh, this is where the shoe drops. Like, how do you flip back? How do you get through that? And how do you deal with the thought of worst case scenario? Because there are no guarantees in anything. Like, even my marriage, I've been married 20 years and I still have to face the fact that this like this still may not work. Right. You know, people are you made it to the 20 year mark. I'm like, yeah, but it's a work in every day is still like a choice that you're together. So that scares the shit out of me as well. But how do you continue to choose to go back into being good? The phrase is really helpful because. It reminds me, it grounds me, it anchors me in. Not needing to worry that the other shoe is going to drop because that is usually the thing that manifests it dropping, you know. But I constantly tell myself it doesn't need to be him. It doesn't need to be him. And I think that's I think that's important for even people in 20 year marriages to say it doesn't need to be him. It's him right now. And then someone might say. Well, will that will that, you know, manifest it ending? No, the opposite. Like when you grasp something with a tight fist, it literally slips through your fingers. Like when you you hold something delicately, that's what makes it last. I think. You know, living in the present and making decisions intentionally with like complete care for him and what we're creating together. Is really important, but not putting pressure on. Needing this to work for so many factors, like number one, we're living way longer than generations prior. So in our lifetimes, we're experiencing so much more change and evolution than anyone prior. And we're just living in this age where we're talking about personal growth, which is creating just. It's a different it's a whole it's a different thing. Marriage and relationships are a different thing than they used to be. So that's the first thing. But I think whenever you put pressure on anything, you inherently bring needy energy, which is just so repellent. Like if someone needs it to be you and needs you to promise that you're never going to leave, no matter what, like, I don't think that's unconditional love. I think you can love someone unconditionally, but have. Conditions for yourself to remain in a partnership with someone. Yeah. You know, so yeah, that's that's what comes to me. And then also making sure, OK, am I continuing to manage, like to invest in my own growth, in my friendships, in my business and not completely getting absorbed into someone's life, even though we're building a life together. That's enough. And I've made that mistake in past relationships. So that's really important. But I think in general, if you're in a healthy relationship with the healthy partner, the more you invest in yourself, the more obsessed you are with yourself, the more your healthy partner will be obsessed with you. I totally agree. My husband has this has my husband. I have this thing that we say where it's like probably sounds crazy to some people, but it works. So it's like the truth of what has worked through 20 years where exactly like you're saying, like we've been five or six, maybe more different people. Right. In those relations, like in this relationship and we don't have kids. So that's another thing of like, continue. It's not kids like keeping you together because a lot of a lot of couples, you'll see start to get divorced in their forties or fifties because the kids kept them together and they're like, who the hell are you? Like we were both changing and becoming these different people and then woke up one day and it's like, what, what are we even in anymore? You know, we were together because we were taking care of these of these kids. But Chris and I have this thing where it's like, we literally want to continue to be the person that the other person wants to choose, but that we want to be like that we want to choose. And so every single like thing that him and I have wanted to do because you're going to want to do a million things in your life. You know, there's a million different paths. You're going to want to go down and we always just ask the other person, like, could you like try this on for size? Like, could you at least try it? Like this is a career path I want to take or this is a religion I want to check out. Like, could you at least just try it on if it's not your thing? Cool. Like, we'll try to continue and see how everything goes. But if you at all are curious or interested or at minimum support, like, what does this look like? So that's been one of the most powerful things that we've done because it started like way back in the day when I got into personal development first. And I don't know, like, if your girlfriends have this conversation, but like a lot of guys can take a little time to like jump on that train. I know your relationship is a little different. You guys are both like, no, he was. Yeah, he was he was probably out of me in ways. Yeah. But like, I don't know if this is a conversation with your girlfriends that like they can they can take a hot second of like, what? Yes. What are you doing? Why do we always have to analyze everything? Like, why does everything have to mean something deeper? And so I think for both men and women, like allowing that time to like catch up as well in relationships. So tell me about kind of like the climate with your girlfriends right now. In in dating, like what's the I also know you're in LA. So that's a little bit of a conversation too. But what does that look like? You know, I think it completely depends on the attitude and the perspective of the individual girl. I think if you're sitting there telling yourself that all men are narcissistic assholes in she that you will you will find exactly that. And if you tell yourself that the clock is running out and you know, like whatever you tell yourself is what you will see. If you tell yourself that men are beautiful and generous and masculine and all that, that's what you find. I tend to see there are certain women and it doesn't mean that they're more beautiful than anyone else. They get all the guys, they walk into a bar and they get hit on by everyone. And there are certain girls who feel invisible. And I think to an extent, it kind of then becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. Because that's the attitude that they carry themselves with. But I think it's a testament to what you tell yourself. It's not magic. Like it's it's neuroscience. That's how you create the filters and the lens to attribute the world. Like that's literally how you let your brain, your particular activating system work in your favor. So tell yourself all day that men are how you want men to be. And you will just see men that way. You will find those men and the other ones will literally be invisible to you. And then that also affects the way that you show up, that you carry yourself, your energy. At the end of the day, everyone beyond just guys. People want to be around happy, confident, positive people. No one wants to be on someone who's miserable. It's just and there's seasons for that. But then like, you know, pick your stuff up. So that's why I'm hesitant to even like make a blanket statement about the dating climate because it just takes one. Yeah, like I was I was dating. I was single. Like you're not supposed to like every single guy. Like you only really need to like one, you know what I mean? And I think I think it's easier for men to like enjoy the experience of being with more women, you know, because they're just like they can expect. They can appreciate beauty without needing to have like a deep emotional connection for the most part. Like for women, you kind of need the whole thing. You know what I mean? Yes, you can't just like see a guy and be like, oh my god, you're hot. Let's go. I mean, I don't operate that way. Right. Like I need to be intellectually stimulated and feel like we have an emotional connection. So if you're if someone's feeling discouraged, like because the dating climate or dating in LA sucks, like you just need one. No, I love that because that, you know, different things in life, you can kind of take the like the outline of it and place it on another. Like you could in business, I imagine that you had a great perspective on like, oh, well, this is happening for me. This money is available. There's clients everywhere where someone could go. There's no clients. Nobody's spending money right now. It's it's rough out there. Like the world is changing. And so that's the lens they're going to get. They're not going to the clients. Their business is not going to grow. They're not going to see the people because they're going to walk into that and people won't be attracted to that. So it's funny how like you can literally take that and overlay it on relationships. And it's the same thing. We just sometimes have trouble with like it like making it transfer into all these other departments of life. But I borrowed that a lot where I'm like, where was I successful? Yes. Why was it easy? I'm like, why was that easy for me? And then I'm like, how do I reverse engineer that to this thing that's hard? And I was actually watching one of your reels earlier and you were talking about something that I absolutely love. You were saying you would never have anxiety if you knew everything was happening for you. And I was like, absolutely, because everything that's even been bad that has happened to me, even very traumatic things has given me like a life's purpose or something to talk on or a platform or completely changed me and given me such massive perspective. It's made me have this podcast. It's like made me meet incredible people. So tell me a little bit about that theory and how that's applied in your life. I think in the moment when things are really painful, it's easy to forget that there's a bigger picture. Yeah. And if you don't have a spiritual practice or faith, then like the whole thing's fucked. You're going to go down the board. Yeah, you're just going to stay there. That's like the fastest way to get completely existential, you know. Then you start to question everything. You get mad at yourself or you victimize, you blame others. You think that you're like living the wrong reality. That's where like depression and anxiety come from. You think that you're either living the wrong reality now or you might live the wrong reality in the future. You think you could make a wrong decision. Like there's no wrong decision. That's the point, right? So conceptually, if you, if you can get to the place where you deeply know that every single thing that has happened, like every singular thing that happened up until this moment had to happen, there was literally no other way. Then you can start to forgive others. You can start to forgive yourself and you can move forward. And I think a lot of us walk around with feelings that someone should have done something differently. They should have been more fair. They should have been kinder. We should have done something differently. However egregious it is, whether you cheated or lied or stole or were manipulative, like I believe that all of our souls have a specific curriculum that we're all living this exact custom plan to help shape us into who we're meant to be. And then from this moment forward, then we have complete free will, right? Because that's, that's what free will is. So that's where all of those negative emotions can just completely evaporate into like to what to your point, you can only connect the dots looking backwards. Then you can say, thank God for this. Thank God for that. Because even though it was so painful, like I can look at my greatest heartbreak. Thank God I experienced it or I wouldn't have been living the life. I wouldn't be living the life I'm living now, which is so much more aligned. It's so much more beautiful. And there's challenges I've gone through. I'm sure you can relate to this. Like I'm grateful because I think that I can share the lessons with other people, especially women, and spare them from needing to go through that level of pain and suffering. Yeah, like how how boring, honestly, would you be if everything was perfect? Right. We would have nothing to talk about. Those people, honestly, like it's easy to be like, oh my God, I'm so jealous of your life, so fucking easy. It's kind of like, I don't want to say ignoring it's kind of like God's not the universe isn't giving that person extra attention. Like those easy lives, you kind of leave the earth relatively similar to how you came. Like that's not that's not what I want. If you want the big life, if you want the big transformation, it's like when God decided to make David, you know, a king, he gave him Goliath. He didn't give him a crown. Like you want a big dream. You want a big life like, OK, you asked for it and you're going to get a big challenge. Mm hmm. OK, let's dig into that because I feel like that's the, you know, the how, how good can it get theory? How good can it be? How good can you take it? Then buckle up. Then buckle up because I had this like little like story that I played out in my head to understand it. And it was like, OK, it's fine. I feel like we think so much alike. Mine was like this glass. It was a glass maker, like picture like a glass blower, like a man who has his like shot ball set up and there's this little water pitcher on the shelf and he's surrounded by these big water pitchers that can hold a ton of water. And he's like, why don't I get to hold all the water? Like I want to hold so much more. And the glass blower says to him, oh, you can. I just I didn't know if you wanted to be put back in the fire. Oh, and so so don't ask me why I make up little weird. Chills. But it's like I was like, oh God. So this helped me so much with my life of like, oh, you want more? Well, are you ready to go back in the fire? And like I am so in it right now, like beyond anything I've ever been in my entire life. And I'm just like, oh, God, like this, it's so easy to forget. And you're reminding me like, oh, your practices can go out the window. And it's like I am completely a person who's very much like a reader, a walker, was a meditator, like still kind of doing those. But they just have fallen by the wayside because of stress. And it's like you must you must ground into those or you can just forget. And I'm even surrounded by I do this podcast, like surrounded by incredible people. But that when you're in that fire, it is all encompassing. It's so easy. It is so easy to forget. What are some things that you recommend to someone who's literally like even if you're surrounded by incredible people and you are in it, it's like, how do you get out of that? There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more, when you're starting a business, you need Northwest registered agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it, like operating agreements, meeting minutes and thousands of how to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you, this is life changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss. You become the leader. That idea that you have that has been eating at you forever, that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made the sleep from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built in to you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your one dollar per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. You know how much sleep affects everything from your mood, your energy and you hear me talk about this with skin all the time. But let's be really honest, unwinding at night for entrepreneurs and anyone who's doing this podcast is probably pretty challenging because we love to replay the day and think of our big goals and all of the things that we want and need to be doing the next day. That's why my nighttime routine has become a non-negotiable. It's become super sacred to me and I've been using OSEA products and their dream collection has completely upleveled how I wind down at night. Their dream night serum and their dream night cream are clinically tested formulas powered by bio retinol and they're designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep, which I really need right now. I wake up feeling like my skin actually got to rest. It feels softer, it feels smoother and it feels really nourished. And as someone who struggles with really dry skin, I love how rich and creamy these feel with.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, full body overnight treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a blend of bioretinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender, which is why I love the smell. It helps reduce visible dryness and dullness, improves elasticity and lets your skin feeling softer and smoother by the morning. This is absolutely becoming a core part of my body care routine in 2026. So give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skincare from Ossia. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site-wide with code ERN at ossiamellaboo.com. That's O-S-E-A-M-A-L-I-B-U.com. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet ORA, Brevo's AI assistant. ORA helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and ORA. I remember sitting across from my therapist during a very hard time and I was kind of lapsing with old eating disorder behavior. And she told me she's like every single unhealthy coping mechanism you've ever used, everything you've ever sought comfort in is going to come back up right now. And I can actually look back on that and view it with tremendous compassion. Like you're trying to find the thing that's going to give relief. So if that's happening, if you're feeling, because there's two different things, there's like lack of adhering to positive skills and then there's returning or adhering to negative skills. So if you're feeling those urges, I would have compassion for yourself if someone's listening and you're feeling pulled to whatever it is. Anything, spending, drugs, alcohol, binge eating, like unhealthy relationships, like have compassion. I have a couple cards that are full. I have a couple. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. But you know what? A full card, you haven't checked out. You haven't checked out. Yeah, some of them I have though. It's all good. It's all good. There's worse things. There's levels. There's levels. So have compassion for that. Where your practice is really strengthened is when you deviate or when you kind of leave for a little bit and you return to come back. Yeah. Like each time that you come back, that's where it gets strengthened. If it was just easy for you to sustain for your whole life, that doesn't really mean you have a strong practice. Like same with a relationship. Every time that you have a challenge and every time there's a rupture and then you repair, you're now stronger. So no matter how many days or weeks or months or years have gone by where there's been a lapse in coming back to the things that make you feel like your best self, your most grounded self, have compassion and see this as an opportunity to strengthen your practice. If you can come back, now it's actually even stronger than it was before. There are so many different spiritual concepts about this, but if you fall and you get back up, you are stronger, better, farther along in your spiritual, personal development journey than had you not faltered or fallen in the first place. So I would get excited that this is an opportunity for you to rise, to strengthen and to grow, to evolve, to elevate all the things, all the words. I would really bring it down. I'd boil it down. James Clear, the author of Atomic Habits, talks about this all the time. Like what is the two-minute version of that practice? Like and this isn't a time to be an overachiever. Like truly, what is it? If it's meditating, it's meditating for two minutes. If it's reading, it's reading for two minutes. If it's working out, it's literally putting your shoes on, rolling out the yoga mat. I would pick- Our 20-minute workouts are great right now. Yeah, truly. This is all I can do. Honestly. So I would make it simple, bring it down, and everyone has a different recipe. Like for me, my three habits that if I do them, I feel better the entire day. It's reading five pages, meditating for five minutes, and journaling half a page. So you could even bring those down to the two-minute versions. I would just find those three things and just do them every day for a week. So that can be like a six-minute routine every day, each for two minutes, three things each for two minutes. Just do that for a week and start there and practice a lot of compassion and a lot of, even if you can cultivate it, excitement for this opportunity to return to your practice and then be better off for it than you were in the beginning. It's so good to remember that. I have a few that are, I mean, I have some that like they just never leave. Like moving my body, working out, reading is down to five to 10 pages. But what you're reminding me of is like, I also need the practice where I'm listening. It's like I'm doing the activities of like working out and reading. That feels a little consumptive, which is important. I need those things, meaning like I need to tune in. I'm not taking any time to listen to me or be a channel for it. So I think the challenge for a lot of people and myself, so everybody listening, I want to also get your input on this Hannah. Sometimes when you're in personal development and spirituality, you can just have these great times in your life where you're going for a walk and you are just getting download after download, you're getting chills, you're on one. You're just in a great place in your life. And during this time, it's like the reason I haven't been meditating or journaling is because it's like I go to those practices and I'm like, I got nothing. Nothing. I got, where are you? Like, I know you're here and I know you're making me like this is where faith actually begins. But I'm like, I would love just like a sparkle, like something, you know, and I think that's where that's where it's hard to keep going back to those things. When's the last time that you felt it? Like a sparkle? That's a tough one. I mean, like I get, I get little ones here and there. Like what, when? I feel used to get like, like walks typically, like, but not listening to a podcast, like maybe just like walking in or yeah, listening to listening to ideas and stuff like that. I think it's important to know that everyone gets those feelings, those downloads in different ways. Yeah. And everyone can probably find like patterns of, okay, when I'm doing this, I get those messages, I get chills, I get, like, I know like my boyfriend loves going on walks and talking to God out loud. Like, everyone's different. That's not my thing. Like he doesn't sit and meditate. I do. So sometimes we think that everyone has the same universal experience, right? So maybe for someone, it's painting, like I have no idea, but maybe, maybe there's not space right now. Maybe you're not leaving space for God to come in. All good reminders. Yep. You know, they say that God is closest to a broken heart. Why? Because when you're literally broken, there's, there's room. Like when you're crying on your knees, begging, and you have nothing scheduled that day, and you have no idea what's to come, and you're shattered, there's room like for the light to come in. But when your schedule is packed full, and you're consuming, and reading, and personal growth podcast, and spiritual book, and there's no space, it's like, okay, if you're like suffocating everything, where's their room? So I think churnaling, time with no phone, walks with no phone, whatever it is, those might be. Yeah. I think it's so, it, it's so funny how you can literally do this, you're a good majority of your life, and you can still forget. When you're in it, you literally, it's almost like you just get some sort of amnesia, and you're like, no, I'm doing all the things. I think there's a little part of us that enjoys like the little victim motor, being able to blame something, or like, well, I'm not getting this, or I'm not feeling that, or I don't feel this way anymore. I think there's a little indulgent part of us that's very human, that is like, well, maybe I don't need to do that, or maybe that's not working. And then you're like, no, it works, you just need to get back to it. But this is why I podcast. It's like, you know, it's like the sun's shining outside today. We can go into your basement. I don't know if you have a basement, we can go into your basement, and it'll be pitch black. Yeah. That's not the sun's fault that we're not experiencing the sun's warmth anymore. Like, we're in the basement. You gotta go outside. You know, like, maybe you're just in the basement. Yeah, I'm getting out though. But yeah, but I was choosing the basement. I was like, wait, okay, let's, I'm not seeing anything. Something's wrong. I think that there's a mistake. Totally. I think there's a glitch and like the sun is is incorrect today. Okay, so what do you think are the three biggest shifts that actually make manifestation work? Because let's talk about this. It's like, it's January. Yeah, everybody is in a place where they really want to, they really want to create something for this year. I feel like a lot of people are talking about that. I love it. I love it. Perfect. I'll just leave it. It's great. I mean, every new year that energy comes in, and you do look at, you know, look down the road and say, what do I want to create for this year? What do I want to manifest? How do we kind of chunk that down? And what do you think are the three shifts that make that work? First, I don't think I'm going to use this as my one just whatever day this is of January. Just let go of the it needed to be perfect start in January 1st thing. Yeah. I think that's just an excuse that we use to put it off until February 1st or next January 1st. So just it's all perfect. Which is the craziest time to pick to try to do everything. No, I know. You're tired after the holidays. You're tired. You need a vacation from the holiday. People are like mid vacation, they're hungover, like people. Yeah, it's a whole thing. First, get clear on what you actually want. I think a lot of people you could say, okay, you can have your dream life a year from now. What do you want? They literally couldn't tell you. They don't know. Or maybe they think they know, but it's because of what other people in their lives place value and emphasis on. So give yourself the space to think about it. Also with that, you don't need to create it. I said this the other night when I was teaching, do you remember playing the game MASH? Yeah. Okay. It's not MASH. You don't need to pick out your favorite car. There's already an answer. There is already, your highest timeline looks like there's an answer. So it's not about you deciding anything. Kind of like what you're just talking about. It's giving yourself the space to get quiet enough to hear and to see. Whenever I've done that, I've gotten visions that in my mind's eye look as if I'm remembering. It looks to me the same way that it looks when I'm remembering something that I've already lived in this lifetime. Give yourself that space. I always say this, your desires exist because the future version of you has them. They're custom. They're specific. They're yours. So just know that you will have them. That's the first thing. Get clear. Second, I would write that in present tense as if you already have it. My favorite exercise. I don't even think that she knows how much this resonated. Do you know Jen Gottlieb? Yes, she's one of my best friends. I was just with her last week. Okay. I haven't talked to her in years. This is actually crazier. You should tell her this. So our parents dated in high school. Oh my god. Okay. My mom and her dad dated. Okay. And our grandparents, we're best friends. To this day, they've passed the whole thing, but I would go and I would literally visit Thelma and Jean at their- In her tams. Yeah. Best. At their Christmas card every year, my whole life. Most iconic Christmas card. I was sitting with Jen. I was just moving to New York. So this is 2021. I was so young. I was just getting into spirituality. And I wanted a boyfriend, so badly. And she told me this story. How she would go on these walks in New York, right? Living as if she had everything she wanted in the vision board and the whole thing. And she gave me this exercise that I've done basically every day for the last five years. And I think she has no idea and I've taught it for the last five years. Basically, you take your paper, you can split it down the middle, either way. You begin by writing everything you're grateful for in this present moment. It could be everything, right? That I'm sitting here recording his podcast with you, that I had a great drive in the convertible to come here. Like whatever, I can be grateful that you're healthy. Then it will look the same. You write everything you want to manifest also in the present tense as if you have it. And it's a very easy exercise. Then you can just jot it down, bullet points if you want. I'm grateful for making a certain amount of money. I'm grateful for having healthy kids. Everything that you want that you don't have in this moment, you write it. It's such a simple exercise. But you can do it in under a minute and it really works. There's more layers to why that works, right? Gratitude is the energy of having something. It's the opposite of lack. It's the opposite of needy energy. And like attracts like. So if you have the energy of gratitude of having, you will naturally attract more things to have. Edit your diet of everything you consume. And I don't mean food. Our brains create filtering systems like I talked about before based on what we tell it is important. That's the words we say out loud, the words we say in our own mind and what other people share with us. The content you consume on social media, your friends. What do your friends talk about? Do they talk about concepts and exciting ideas? Or are they gossiping and talking shit all day about other people? What are you putting in your body? How are you treating? But especially what we consume. We're so like over inundated with input right now. Make sure that it's inspiring you and expanding you. Think that we often underestimate the importance of our environment. Right? That's why they say you are the average, the sum of the five things that you spend the most time with. Like the more that I am around people that expand me, that inspire me, that push the limits of what I believe is possible. If anything is even impossible. At that point I'm with people who just think anything is possible. It's amazing, right? That these are hacks. Everything that I'm sharing is a hack that will allow you to manifest much more efficiently. That allows you to do it on autopilot. Then they're doing the work for you. Then you just become a more positive, optimistic, higher energy, high vibe person without actually having to do any work. It's like it's the best. It's like osmosis. It's like why our parents didn't want us to hang out with bullies or the bad kids. Yeah. As you become them. If you hang out with amazing people, you literally become them. I came from a fitness background and early on I learned really quickly you can't just change your mind. You have to change your environment because your environment will inform everything that you do. Your environment is stronger than your willpower. It will always break it. You can be great up until 7pm. If your environment is full of candy and that's your problem, your environment is going to break you because you ran out of willpower. It's the same in business, personal development. It's so important. I love that. To edit your diet. Everything you consume. Of everything. So important. I know I need it. Beyond food. I think my algo needs to change a little. I think I need to get in a different algorithm. I saw someone post it the other day. It's like oranges and one's moldy and then the one next to it. The others are beautiful, perfect oranges. But this one moldy one, then the ones surrounding it start to mold as well. Totally. Sometimes our friends have hard seasons and we have to be there for them. But if someone is just negative, like evil speech, gossiping, or if they secretly don't want the best for you, right? Or they only want you to do well as long as it's not exceeding their level of happiness or their level of income. It's very, very, very poisonous. Totally. Oh my gosh. Okay. So let's touch on manifesting. One more thing about manifesting for people. Can you share a little bit about, you know, we have this theory of believing everything is happening for you. And then I've had moments in my life where I'm like, Oh, shit, how did I attract that? But then I'm like, Oh, that happened for me. But then I'm like, God, I don't want to attract that again. Like, how can we look at that or get over that quicker? Because I do believe no matter what happens in the next year, you and I are both going to have things that happen that we don't love. That we're like, how, how did I, if I attract everything and do everything, how did I attract that? How can we kind of flip that? And simultaneously also like remain very grateful for what we are attracting. For example, if someone's listening to this and they're in a horribly toxic relationship, they're like, no, I definitely, this is not what I asked for. Like incorrect, your soul did ask for it. It's not because you deserve it or you're a bad person. This is how you are going to learn a lesson that will allow you to experience the life of your dreams. So rather than saying why is this happening to me, you know, telling yourself it's happening for you, it's not always helpful. I was just talking to a woman on the way here, her husband's in prison. They have children. It's a very challenging time. Yeah. And she's really viewing it beautifully. And we were talking about I'm like, well, there's a phrase, there's a Hebrew phrase, ain't no no no. Basically, like translates to there's only you and God, right? So almost imagine if everyone in your life is a pawn, like if they have no free will and they're existing, because God, the universe is telling them, do this specifically so that Hannah can learn what she needs to learn to grow, to evolve, to elevate, to become the version of her that she is meant to be, to experience all the goodness in this world, to help change the world for the better. Like if you can actually view everyone, your dad who left you, your boyfriend who cheated on you, like they had no free will, then you can start to see the lessons, the blessings, the opportunities for growth that they are creating for you. And that allowed me to finally have compassion for my dad, who I've never lived within my life. So that's the thing, right? View everything, even if you're in it is okay. If this is going to be painful, like what's the juice I can squeeze out of it? Like what is the lesson for me here? And if you don't want to do it again, you don't have to just pass the test this time, right? If this is a test and you don't pass it, you're going to be met with the same guy in different fonts, the same challenging business partner in different fonts. And it will probably honestly be worse next time. We're usually given the same test with increasing severity until we pass it. Yeah. So pass it. And then you can be done. It's simple. Yeah, I've had a couple of personalities in my life where I'm like, now I can spot them from miles and miles away. And I'm like, whoo, so glad I had those horrible experiences with those people. Where now where business has a lot more at risk, I can spot people who I'm like, oh, no, we're good to go. Like I know what to look out for. So that's also something I've become grateful for is all of the lessons that happened more early on that were more intense so that I can now when things feel like, you know, more at risk or you have more on the line, it was just so much easier to learn some of those when you didn't have that. So if you're in a spot right now, it's good to reflect and be like, okay, before the massive blessing comes, this is good that you got that experience in your business. Maybe somebody stole money from you and you're like, I should have seen that coming. Like I should have checked these things out. I should have. Those are all things that are like, well, next time I will check that out. Next time I will learn from that. Next time I will have more control over that. Yeah. Like there's no time lost. Like, yeah. Like if you lose a million dollars, like, okay, well, as your business grew, maybe it would have been $10 million because you wouldn't have learned this a different way. Totally. Like you can't just become, you know, a brain surgeon at age five. There's there's a certain level of education. There's a curriculum that one needs to go through a certain number of hours of experience to be given that responsibility. So that's why, of course, some people just marry their high school sweethearts and it works. But for a lot of people in relationships, like that's your curriculum, that's your opportunity to learn what you need to learn to take on the responsibility of what you want to hold. Same goes for business. Let's let's finish up with a money conversation because a lot of people are always wanting to they get very excited about manifesting around, you know, love and money. Yeah, love and money. That's it. But two main things. So how do we apply some of these things to money? How are some people blocking themselves in your opinion from certain amounts of money? Is there like, you know, every time we hear people say manifesting money, they're like, well, you can't just go from zero to a million if you're at zero. Do you believe that? Do you not? That was a lot of questions. Let's just start with how do you apply this to wanting to manifest a certain amount of money? Money's just energy. It's just energy. I think Elon Musk's net worth is over $500 billion. Now, anything is possible. Any amount of money is possible. I've heard the craziest stories of people, you know, making money, losing money, it coming back bankrupt, see then multi then billions, like whatever you believe is possible is what will manifest. If you think it's hard to make $100,000, it will be hard to make $100,000. If you think you can make money like that, and like it's like turning on a faucet, it will be. I've always held that belief. I've always had an abundance mindset surrounding money. I've always spent, but I know it's not like that for a lot of people. We've talked about the areas of my life that I've struggled in. So I would tell yourself those mantras every single day. Money and abundance flow to me with ease, whatever it is, like whatever the opposite of your limiting belief is, say that to yourself every day. Act as if you actually hold that belief. Also, just like practically, if you have a scarcity mindset surrounding money, and you have this needy energy in your business, you will repel opportunities. The more that my business has grown, the more huge brands, celebrities, whatever that I work with, the less time I have to take on clients at this point, I don't do any pitching. I don't even market my business. I turn people away. Now more than ever, people are like banging on the door wanting to work with me, right? When I was just starting out, like begging anyone to work for me for like, you know, basically free, it was impossible. So treat yourself like you are where you want to be energetically with your time. And that is what other people will believe. The more confidence you have in yourself, in your abilities, in the value of your time, you will inspire others to have that same confidence in you. So it truly starts with you. I love that. Okay, if you could leave women with one thing to stop forgetting, one truth to stop forgetting, what would that be? It might be cliche, but they have no idea how good it can be. Hmm. How good it is now. Never forget that. And never forget that no matter how dark it might feel now, no matter how far away your dreams might feel, that everything can shift pretty immediately. As soon as you elevate your energy, as soon as you make that shift internally, everything can 180 flip. It's happened to me. It's happened to other people. I've watched it. I know it to be true. Nothing is too farfetched. Nothing. Is there anything else that you want to leave people with? No, I just love you. This was so fun. So fun. I love like deep soulful conversations. I can't deal with the bullshit anymore. I can't. No, you have a podcast, which is all you have to do. Oh, I mean, hopefully, how about you? What's exciting? Yeah, anything that you want. I mean, they're your listeners, anything you want to leave them with. What do I want to leave them with? That like there's been, I think now that it's so crazy when you start getting like now I'm in my mid 40s and I'm like, whoa, life has cycles and it's just such a reminder. Make sure that you have a network that is built around you who just always reminds you of this conversation. Like it's it's one of the most important things because life, no matter how much you think you're dialed in, it will life you because you're going to a new level and you will get life. It will toss you and rag doll you in the ocean. And then your friends will be like, hey, you're good. Like come back to this or come back to that. Like you just forgot. So I think setting up yourself in an environment that will that always has you like then you can't fail. Like you literally you can't fail. So no, they're reminded me of I'll end with this. There's levels. When you go to a new level, then you're a little fish in a big pond again, which can feel really destabilizing after being a big fish in a small pond. You go from being the varsity player. No, I'm not a sports girl. You go from being the star player on the GV team to like the worst player on the varsity team. I remember I got like a like a nice car. Okay, it's like a little sports car. And the first time I got in it, I was actually it's when I was driving to go see Amanda. It was raining. It was dark. I got in it. I'm like, oh my God, I can't do this. Like I'm going to crash. I don't understand. It's bumpy. I like scraped it. I'm like, oh no, I text me. I'm like, I'm giving it back. Like I can't handle this car. And anyway, now I love the car. It's so fun. It's convertible goes fast. And it felt so symbolic in the moment. It was so uncomfortable because I was used to, you know, like a soft cushy SUV. But I'm like, this is what I always wanted. You know, now I love the car. The new level can be really uncomfortable. It doesn't mean that you've gone backwards. It can feel like it. Yeah, it means that you're at the start of something really, really special. And 2026 in numerology, it's one, you know about this? Yep. You know about this, right? I feel all the cycles ending 2025 was the nine year. It was the end of a really long chapter, a lot of loss, a lot of transitions, the year of the snake. There was a lot of shedding, a lot of grief. People lost their homes in the fires relationships going into this year one. It's the beginning of that new level that next chapter for a lot of people. It's the year of the horse, which means power, we're moving forward intentionally. So don't return the car. We're ready to ride. We're ready to ride. We ride it done. Thank you so much for coming on. I love it. I can't wait to listen to your podcast. Thank you. Come on. I would love to mandatory. Yeah, we're I'm coming on. Good right up there. Good. Thank you so much.

=== FILE: Beauty From the Inside Out： What Actually Works for Menopause & Skin with Jennifer Hanway Part 3 [4tqeEdNHBGc].txt ===

 we've never been so informed yet also so misinformed, especially for women in their 40s. Like, I feel like we are just targeted so hardcore right now. Like, they know that we have some pain points. Yeah. Our life is different at this point. Things are changing. Every company right now is making a menopause supplement, a weighted vest, a menopause skincare range, etc., etc. Fantastic. But we have to be able to disseminate what is actually going to help us through carrying postmenopause. All right, Jennifer, welcome back to the show. This is part three, and we have been talking about nutrition, supplement, fitness, and lifestyle strategies for high-achieving women. First of all, we did part one and part two, which absolutely blew my mind. Thank you. And I feel like there's so much information there, but also, like, really great places to get started that you gave. So if you have not listened to part one and part two, you're going to want to go back and do that, but you don't have to do that in order to listen to part three. Because today on part three, we are talking about busting through health misinformation on social media. And this was a really big piece for me of why I even wanted to start my own company, if I'm being honest, because I was in health and fitness. Yeah. And I was so overwhelmed with everything that was coming out, because on social media right now, there is just a big fight for attention. And we kind of talked about this in part one and part two and chatting about how a lot of people are giving misinformation or they're trying to be polarizing. And a lot of times the answer is found kind of in the great. It's found kind of in the middle of where you should be at and what you should be doing for your own health and your own fitness and your own plans, because we're all so different. We all lead such different lifestyles. And when people are giving information on the internet, they want that spike. They want to go viral. They want those views. And that means they're going to take a stance on something that maybe they shouldn't be taking a stance on or everyone shouldn't be doing. So, you know, we've talked about your incredible credentials. You've worked with so many people. You've worked with celebrities. You've worked with Olympians. You are a board certified nutrition professional, a certified personal trainer, a clinical weight management practitioner, a beauty nutrition expert. You've probably seen her name in multiple beauty magazines as one of the experts weighing in. And I'm really excited today to kind of like call some of these things out and bust them out and talk about some of the things that are going to be going on. The different things that are trending right now. So why do you think that social media has become the go to source for health and wellness information even among like the smartest, most successful women? And I will say, I do go there sometimes and I'm like, should I be doing this? Oh, my God, should I be getting rid of that? Should I not eat rice anymore? It's it's at our fingertips. We are on our devices 24 seven. It's so much easier to click on to an Instagram post and it's to go and research clinical studies, you know, reading clinical papers, reading scientific studies as a whole. It's a whole other case. It's insane. It's insane. Yeah, you know that from Glossy. So of course, we're going to rather get that from our, you know, entertainment at the end of our fingers. We're going to look on Instagram and then the second that we look at one thing or, you know, we've both got our phones in the room. We've talked about a ton of things. We're going to be inundated with Instagram posts of all the things that we've talked about. Oh, my God. Like, we're going to have all of the things, but it's just it's so easy and so accessible. That's why we're getting our health information from there. OK, so what makes misinformation on these platforms so incredibly convincing, even when it contradicts the things that we feel like we have known or even maybe worked for us or hasn't worked for us. Right. It's a multi-billion dollar industry, both from the brands, influencers, experts who are putting this information out and then both from the people that provide us these platforms who know that if we look at one thing on, I don't know, let's say juice cleansers, we're going to want to look at 50 other things on juice cleansers. Now, we don't have the reasoning abilities with that there late night scrolling to think, oh, now I'm only seeing this because I've looked at one thing. We're just going to take it as that's gospel because we just keep seeing it all the time and we know that repetition builds those neural pathways in the brain. So if we look at one post, one time, that's all we're going to be seeing. And it's that repetition and that overlaying of those patterns that makes us believe it when it's rational, educated, intelligent women. If we took a step back, we probably wouldn't. Oh, man. So like the algorithm, literally, we know this, especially now with the new algorithm that everyone has been talking about. It's just going to amplify what you've already looked at or what you've already searched. And I find sometimes with different things that are coming up or food things that people are telling us to do or not to do, it's easy to want to blame all of your problems on one thing. So when we find something, it's like, maybe I know my mom's having problems. Maybe this is it. And we send it to all our friends and it's like, this is why we're, you know, we have anxiety. This is why we feel depressed. This is why we can't lose weight. And we're always trying to kind of like pinpoint it on this one thing because it is a multi-billion dollar industry that they're constantly trying to fight for your attention and get you to buy. And now there is great stuff out there. There's great supplements. There's great information. But we have to know when we're in the sea of information that people have an agenda with their content, even when these are like doctors and different creators and, you know, people that you think don't have an agenda. They still have an agenda. I'm not saying they're bad people, but we all have an agenda. So it's really important to look at content from that aspect of like, okay, why is this person only talking about this? Do they have a supplement coming out? Yes. Something that they're trying to say where I'm like, okay, this is really interesting to see it that way. So we've never been so informed yet also so misinformed. So especially for women in their 40s, like I feel like we are just targeted so hardcore. Yeah, they know that we have some pain points. Yeah, life is different at this point. Things are changing. We also have some extra cash. Yeah. So we're like the most targeted demographic. Yeah. 30s, late 30s, early 40s. How do we know who to trust? You know, menopause is the new black. And it's great that we're talking about it. I don't know about you, but I had no idea. You know, I remember my mom going through menopause, but I don't think I even knew that it was called menopause. No, I had no idea. No idea. No idea. So thank goodness we are. It's great that we're talking about it, that there's more education about it. That's, you know, you and I talk about it. It does come up in conversation. Fantastic. But yes, it is a million dollar market right now. Every supplement, every weighted vest, everything out there is this is going to help you through perimenopause and menopause. Now, the information would be fantastic. The information could be empowering. But what I see, even from some of the biggest names out there, and there's one in particular that I'm thinking of, is how doom and gloom perimenopause and menopausers. Now I work for Versaly, which is Johnson Johnson's menopausal health platform. And I've had the opportunity to be in rooms of hundreds of women in perimenopause and postmenopause. Everybody's experience is different. And 99% of them are not having the doom and gloom experience that we're seeing on social media. Because someone saying menopause sucked a little bit, but it was okay. It went through very quickly. I was fine is not going to get the clicks as my whole life is falling apart by all of my supplements and my weighted vest and I will fix everything for you. So we need to be talking about gray areas, but gray areas don't get clicks or likes or an engagement. And I think we are so targeted as women in perimenopause menopause because exactly as you said, we have changes in our bodies that we want to address. And we have income and the time to do something about it. And we are so targeted. Every company right now is making a menopause supplement, a weighted vest, a menopause this, a menopause skin care range, etc. Fantastic. But we have to be able to disseminate what is actually going to help us through perimenopause menopause. What have you found in the sea of like swimming through, you know, the things for menopause, the ocean for perimenopause and menopause? What are some things that you're like, okay, I think these are important things to look at for women. Yeah, I think it's going back to the foundations. I think it's understanding exactly what does happen in perimenopause and postmenopause. Like what changes are we experiencing in our body? Bone density, muscle mass, cardiovascular health, all of those things so, so important. So again, it's doing those foundations. Foundations don't sell supplements. So really for women, perimenopause, postmenopause, make sure your blood sugar is balanced, make sure your strength training. You know, maybe in perimenopause menopause is when we want to get on board with a cardiovascular doctor. We want to be looking after our heart health a little bit more, some different testing. But really it's doing the foundations well and just know that no supplement is going to out optimize hormone and balances, etc, etc. So there's no number one, we're not going to cure menopause. But number two, do the basics right, get the diet right, get the strength training right, manage your stress, managing your sleep. And then supplements should be that last one to two percent of the game. How do you feel about all of the hormone therapy and everything around it right now? I think HRT is fantastic. It's a right tool in the right toolbox for the right person. I personally take HRT myself on all of the hormones, but I do that through a very qualified, experienced doctor who is checking my labs every three months. And everything is optimized for me, for my health, for my health background, for my health challenges, what I want to optimize. So again, it just has to be the right tool for you. For some people, HRT is a great fit. For some people, it's not. But there's no one size fits all. I'm like so open to everything, especially with with AI and all the things. I'm like, no, tell me how science has caught up. Yeah. And what we're able to do because I want to get better in life. And you know what? It's really crazy because there's so many hormones out there for men and it's been normalized so much about like, well, oh my gosh, you're losing muscle. We don't want that. You don't want that. Like you here take this or oh my gosh, you've lost your drive. Take this. And for women, it's like we're sitting here alone going, wait, why do I not feel motivated? Why? Why am I losing my muscle? And it's actually been a conversation that I feel is really taboo for some people. Like, oh my gosh, you take what? Or hormone therapy? I take testosterone. Yeah. All of the things, right? Yeah. Like so many women I know do. I like do not yet, but I will. Like as soon as I start to notice. Yeah. Because like I said, I do my labs quarterly and I everything like as soon as things start to dip or I start to really notice something. Absolutely. Like that's the first thing I'm going to say. The first thing I'm going to start is looking at all of those things. And you're so right about that discrepancy between men and women and also women live longer. So we're going to live longer. Let's keep us vital and alive. When I first started noticing a dip in my muscle mass, my performance, my drive, I went to see my PCP and my OBGYN. And they did my hormone tests and my OBGYN didn't look at my testosterone. And they were just like, yes, you're in perimenopause, but you're not having any of the vasomotor symptoms. You're not having the hot flashes of the night sweats. So we're not going to do anything about it. Not me knowing what I know, I'm like, nope, I want to get ahead of this. I'm a smaller person anyway. I could possibly, you know, if I'm not looking after my bone health, osteopenia, osteoporosis, I've seen it in too many of my clients. Like I've seen what happens when you don't optimize these things. So I'm like, no, let me get ahead of the game. So I then started working with a new doctor who did. So I mean, I went in and I think I had like 18 or 19 vials of blood. The flibosomus is like, you OK? I'm like, yeah, I'm fine. But we looked at everything we found my testosterone was low. So I take a very, very small amount of testosterone. Now, I need that for my optimal health. I need it for my muscle mass, my bone density, my brain function, my drive. But that's the right fit for me. So again, it's this, what is the right fit for you? And to be honest, you're not going to find that scrolling on social media. Yeah, I love hearing about just all of the different ways that we can get help now, especially for women. And I think you just have to. What's your best advice for someone who's like, wow, I've never thought to check that or maybe these mood dips or this feeling of, you know, I was talking to I had a hormone expert on a little while ago and she was talking about how, you know, if we think back to how our moms were going through menopause and perimenopause, like we probably just saw them really struggling with like maybe their identity of not knowing what they should do at that point in their life or who they were or feeling really exhausted or extremely overwhelmed. Or maybe you remember them not being able to handle a lot at a certain point or like really changing who you remember your mom as. And I remember distinctly going, whoa, what is wrong with my mom? I remember, you know, even my husband's mom going, what is something has changed? Like, and we had no conversation around it. No idea. Right. We were just like, oh, they're bitchy. Yeah, they're going through something. And what is that? Like, you just kind of want to stay away from them for a while. And unfortunately, I wish they could have had this help. Yeah, we were going through it alone and going through all of these mental changes with a lot of that must have been so hard. Yeah. And, you know, looking back and even talking to them like they felt like they were crazy because everyone was telling them they were fine. Yeah. And now we can actually go, no, some things have changed. Yes. And we want to optimize this. And how do we do it? So where would you recommend people go or start for that? You know, you always want to start with your PCP, your nurse practitioner, whoever that first port of call is. But if you feel like you're not being listened to, this is where we have to shop around. Now, I work with clients who have fantastic PCPs and they're covered by their insurance. And it's like, never let that person go. For a lot of us, that's not the case. And we may have to go somewhere outside of our insurance. We may have to look around. We may have to get recommendations. But you should always want to feel that you can question your doctor. Your doctor is not going to just brush you off. You're not going to the doctor is not going to say, oh, it's just normal or it's just your age. You really want to be able to have that conversation with your doctor. And if you can't, that's when you need to open the conversation up. If you have a health care provider that you really love, let's say you don't love your PCP, but you love your OBGYN, talk to them about hormone testing. If you don't love your OBGYN, maybe talk to a cardiologist. Or sometimes we may have to look outside of a scope of conventional medicine or what's covered by our insurance. And honestly, I think your health is the best investment that you can make. I pay for my doctor. It's not covered under insurance, but it's been life changing. What better investment is there going to be than my health, my longevity, my energy, my resilience? So if someone's coming to you for help, because you are a nutrition expert, you really understand about eating for beauty as well. It's like one of your passions. What types of results are you helping people get? OK, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes so there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I want to share some of my favorite products, so I consider myself a bra, that kind of sewer. So I got the fits everybody triangle bra, that and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing. I have ever felt it's buttery, it's soft, it's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn you're happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations. Effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to say 50 percent on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about. But then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly. But also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video, just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your Aura Frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting AuraFrames.com to get $35 off Aura's best selling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wire Cutter by using promo code earn at checkout. That's A-U-R-A Frames.com promo code earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frames sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. I like to work as part of the team. So ideally we've got a great doctor on board, etc, etc. But the client might come to me, they've been to their doctor, they've got some lab work, the doctor says the lab work all looks fine, you're in normal ranges. Now, normal for a very unhealthy American population. I don't know about you. I don't want to be the average of the US population and I think we should all be aiming a little bit higher. So I'm then going to look at those labs and I'm going to look at things like blood sugar balance. I'm going to look at inflammation. Do we have enough vitamin D? Do we have enough vitamin B? Are we going to have iron? What's happening with inflammation? Let's look at not just our cholesterol level, but what are those different types of cholesterol doing? So we're really taking it out of the are you alive until you have any chronic disease? If not, then how can we optimize? So that's everything from blood sugar balance to is your body absorbing the protein that you're eating to what's your magnesium status to what is your LDL to HDL cholesterol and do we need to dive a little bit deeper in there? So sometimes a client will come to me with they've just got basic lab work and we can go from there. Well, sometimes we'll start to see things that aren't quite optimized, for example, thyroid levels, and then we might go and do some further testing either with their doctor or with a different medical professional. OK, so let's talk about for affluent high achieving women who really value optimization, how do we balance like wanting the best for us? What exactly should I be doing if I want the best like supplementation out there, if I want the best attention out there without being shiny, like with resisting shiny online syndrome. Yeah, shiny online syndrome. That's a new one. It's great. You know, I think that reward that we get from shiny online syndrome, we can replace that with real results. And that's what I say to Michael. That's what we're chasing. We're chasing a buzz. We're chasing a high. Why not get that from real results that actually work for us? And when we're doing things that are optimized for us and tailored for us, we can see results in a week to two weeks. I think sometimes that's where we want that we want that quick fix. But if we just do the things that are right for us, that are tailored for us, the precision to our lab work, to our lifestyle needs, to our where we are in life, the decade we are in life, we can see results really, really quickly, even in 24 hours. So we just replace one, you know, one reward for another, but a reward that's going to do us good in the long term as well. Wow, that's really exciting. You know, I've actually, Chris and I have been chatting about this because it's really easy to think you know what you're doing, but really set in your ways. And, you know, my husband has always been like, I just, he always struggles with that last little bit of weight for him. This is this is his, his words, not mine, you guys, because I think he's perfect and amazing. I just thought he looks great. He's great, but he's always wanting to be better. And I think something that him and I want to focus on is personalization now, because we've done all this, we have all the info. Yeah, we've done all the things, but I'm sure there's a couple of things that he's eating every day that are not great for him. Meaning like that actually don't work for him because he should technically feel more fit than he feels in his body. Like he's like, I'm just not feeling as good as I know I could feel. Right. And I think it's because there are things that need to be personalized. Yeah. So when someone's thinking about personalization, what does that mean? Is it like a personalized nutrition plan? Is this personalized? Like, are we talking about, you know, different things that people are injecting? Is this peptides? Is this what does that mean when people come to you and they're like, I, I'm trying all the things. I think I'm, you know, like a Chris comes to you or a me comes to you. And we're like, we're pretty healthy, but like we feel like there's another level. So we want to start from the ground up. So number one, we want to start with lab work. So and also there are a ton of fancy functional tests. Like you can test everything. You can test every single bodily fluid. lab work is really the ground level, the foundation of that. So let's look at everything and let's make sure that you are in the optimized ranges, not just the normal ranges. So for example, for me, when I get my lab done, my TSH, my thyroid stimulating hormone, you know, thyroid is our, it's our engine of our body. It really makes our energy influences our metabolism, everything. For me, within conventional ranges, my TSH is where it needs to be. For optimal ranges, my TSH isn't optimal. So I take some thyroid medication. It's a little lower. It's a little higher. Higher, higher, which means that my body isn't making enough or converting enough. So my body is trying harder. It's like a shouting a louder signal is trying harder. Now, no peptide is going to fix that. So we really want to get in the ground, get that lab work done, get everything optimized that might be looking at thyroid, that might be looking at sex hormones. So things like testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, etc., etc. testosterone for women and men. That's a big conversation these days. So I want to make sure that the lab work is and that might mean medication. And I think a lot of people in my world, in my field, like, oh, my God, no, we can't do medication. We'll know it all works together synergistically. If my body is not making enough of something on its own, why am I not going to medicate with that? Now, I'm going to do everything else to support it. So I know for me, supporting thyroid health that comes down to my gut health, that comes from managing my stress, making sure that I'm not in too much of a calorie deficit, making sure that my foods are all nutrient dense. That then supports the medication piece of the puzzle. Then I might want to look at where my vitamin D levels are at. If I'm not making enough energy, if I'm getting sick all of the time, is my vitamin D in the optimal range, not just the normal or standard range? Because I'll see people come to me with vitamin D levels of like 31 and like the cutoff point is like 29 or 30, depending on what lab you're looking at. I'm like, we want to get you up to the 50s and 60s or the 60s and 70s for optimal. So let's add some more vitamin D in there. So there are things even within that lab work that we can tweak from the basics of hormones, thyroid, blood sugar balance. Even my when I got my labs done a year ago, when I first started really taking a deep dive, my blood sugar was good, but it wasn't optimal. Now let's optimize that. So for someone like you, for someone like Chris, getting into those labs and really making sure everything is optimal, fantastic. So number one, that's that piece. Then what are we doing with diet? Where are we optimizing? Let's say we're working out and we're not having enough energy to get through our workouts for maybe we don't need to be completely no carb. Maybe we need to put some carbohydrates in our workout. Maybe we are only eating chicken and white fish because we've been told that fat is bad, but actually our body needs some of those great fatty acids for hormone production, for energy, for our skin. Maybe we are falling into a rut and having the same type of salad all of the time and we're not getting all of those polyphenols then. So then we can look at diet. Then the next level of supplementation. So then where can we supplement to A? Undue deficiencies. So make sure that we have great levels of everything. But beware, I need to optimize a little bit. If it's coming into cold and flu season, I'm traveling a ton. Do I need more vitamin C? Even as specific as I get sculpture injections, the sculptures are what's called a bio stimulator, so they help our faces and our skin produce more collagen. When I'm on that, and this is the work that I do with the dermatologist, I'm going to have a specific protocol that helps my skin produce more collagen because I've given it the stimulating ingredients to make more collagen. Now I have to give it the raw materials so we can get that specific. Only when all of those things are dialed in, then we won't start thinking about things like peptides. And peptides, please do this with a medical professional. I had a really scary. So I'm obviously the person that all my friends text like, did you see this? What about this? Should I be taking this? I am that person. And my friends sent me a text. Should I be taking peptides? My answer is always going to be, it depends. What else are you doing? Let's talk to a doctor. But she sent me, she's like, oh, one of my friends is taking peptides and he's just ordering it from a website. And I go on this website and I'm like, OK, this is me in the rabbit hole. So go on this website and the website provides peptides for clinical research. And everything on that website says not for human use, but you can be any person with a credit card and order these peptides. You get some syringes and you inject them. How scary is that? Yeah. So if you're going to do this, where are they coming from? Where are they coming from? How much should you be having? Like injecting our things, you know, injecting things into our body, that's real. So, you know, number one, fundamentals, nutrition, supplements, and then peptides, but only with the use of a medical professional. OK, so I want to go down the peptide rabbit hole for sure. But before we do that, just talking about, like, you know, some of the trends that are going on and so many people are following the you were just talking about like what kind of foods you need. Also, the what you can eat in a day content. Yeah, this is so incredibly popular. Yeah. And it's easy just to go, oh, she looks amazing. I'm going to follow this. Yeah. What are your thoughts on that? Oh, just like anything, there's no one size fits all diet. There's no one size fits all in a day. Now, I'm not going to vilify them completely because I think we can all get inspiration from people who are healthier than us, or we can all get inspiration from things we all get stuck in a rut. So what I would say is, you know, for me as a 44 year old woman, I'm not going to go to a 20 year old skinny talk influencer and see what she's eating for the day, because that's going to be a it's probably completely wrong.  for everybody, but B, it's going to completely mess up my hormones, my energy, my metabolism, et cetera. But I might go and look at some of my peers, you know, other people my age or that are working in functional medicine, hormonal health, nutrition, and I might go, oh, they've got some really good ideas for meals. But I'm never just going to take their diet outline and put it onto my diet because it's not optimized for me, but I might use it for inspiration, especially if it's someone of a similar demographic. Okay. So we're going to talk about peptides because there's a lot of talk about peptides right now. And I think people are confused, like, do we need supplements? Do we need peptides? What is the clear difference between the two? Yeah. So a peptide is just a short chain of amino acids. And it's basically a signaling molecule to our body. So it tells our body to do something. So we can have peptides as in collagen peptides. So peptides that we put in our smoothie, you know, collagen. So these aren't just injectables. These aren't just injectables. Yeah. But what we are seeing right now is that injectable peptides on social media that is having its moment and it's a little bit scary. And peptides can do everything from so our GLP-1 agnes, those are peptides, to there are peptides that can help with our skin hair and nails. So there are peptides across the board. Now, I personally will think of peptides after I think of supplementation. So we're doing what do we need to fix medically, if anything, nutrition, supplementation, and then peptides. But peptides should be the last thing that you go to, not the first thing that you go to. If you have a, you know, let's say you're not eating enough B vitamins, and you're not getting enough energy, and you have poor thyroid function, no peptide is going to fix that. We're going to go back to the beginning. So peptides are the cherry on top, the icing on the cake. I definitely don't vilify them, but they're not where we should be starting and we should be working with a medical professional for them. Okay, let's talk about myths for perimenopausal women and post menopausal. Yeah. So we have, you know, high protein diet be bad for you. Is it good for you? Let's talk about weighted vest. Talk about all the things that you hear. Yeah. So we are basically bombarded with, we should be eating more protein, and we should be wearing weighted vest all of the time, when we're going to the toilet, when we're asleep, et cetera, et cetera. Now, are both of those things good? Yes. Is there nuance? Yes. And I think that nuance gray area, again, these are all of the things that we're not seeing on social media. So do we need a higher protein diet as we get older? Yes. So we need a higher protein diet as we get older, because we do have sarcopenia. That's the loss of our lean muscle mass. Protein is also really essential for bone density as well. I think we always think of protein just for muscle mass, but protein is essential for bone density for hair and skin. We've talked about that. But also as we are making less estrogen, we're not as able to make muscle from our workouts and from our diet. So we do need to add more protein in there. A lot of the pushback I get is a high protein diet is dangerous. And the answer is no. If you have a diagnosed kidney condition, that's when we need to be thinking about protein in the diet, but that's a very small amount of the population. So no, high protein diets are not dangerous. And I think a lot of women, when they think of higher protein, they're thinking around that 100 to 120 grams of protein, we're not thinking 200 to 300 grams of protein, which our husbands might be eating. So no, a higher protein, maybe even if we just couch it in a higher protein diet, great way to think about this is one gram of protein per pound of body weight. So if you weigh 125 pounds, aiming for 125 grams is great. Some days you're going to hit that, some days you're not, but it's a really great, easy way of thinking about it, or aiming for about 30 grams per meal. And that's going to get you somewhere up until the 90 100. Now, for most people, that's a lot higher than when they're where they're at, but not really what we would consider a high protein diet. Now a lot of women in their 40s and 50s in the perimenopause and menopause stage went through the vegan and plant based diets of the 90s, 90s and the 2010s. So for them to then be eating animal protein at every meal feels like a really huge jump. So it's not so much that we're eating high protein diets, it's just we're coming from a real protein deficiency of the trends of the last decades. Okay. So what about red meat? There's a lot of conversation like, Oh, you know, I don't eat red meat. I should we avoid red meat? Again, that's going to come down to you. It depends. The two issues with red meat are the does it cause cancer and is it bad for our cholesterol? So in terms of cholesterol, I'm going to say probably not cholesterol in the diet doesn't really impact cholesterol in our blood. Again, a lot of the times I say for red meat and cholesterol, let's test it out. So we can see dips in we can see changes in our cholesterol panels within three months. So if I've got someone who has a real family history of cardiovascular disease, they're a little bit nervous, I'm like, All right, let's try red meat twice a week. Let's test your cholesterol levels. And in two to three months again, see what's happened. For most people, it's absolutely fine. Other people might be hyper responders. Then we might want to do maybe red meat once a week. It's about the quality of the red meat. So your grass fared steak is going to be a lot better than your hot dog that you're going to get at the ball game. What else are you eating things with? So again, with nutrition science, it's really, really hard because we're not there are so many different variables. So people that eat higher red meat diets might not be meeting as many vegetables. The cancer risk is there's lots of studies on both sides of the equation. But for me, I'm always like, if you're a little bit nervous about this, let's just do it once or twice a week, because red meat is a really great source of iron. A lot of women are iron deficient. It's a really great source of protein. It's a really great source of B vitamins and other things. So let's meet somewhere in the middle again, that nuance, that gray area. And let's think about the quality of that meat and how we're cooking it. If it's a slow cooked grass fed beef stew versus a hot dog on the grill, we're talking about two very different things. Okay, we're going to switch gears. And we're going to talk now about topical skincare versus internal skincare, and just some of the myths around both. So for topical skincare, I have spent so much money, so much money on serums and lotions and promises, you know, especially in the past, they used to be able to like put whatever they were on their label. Yeah, like, Oh my God, in my early 30s, I was just like, when you think you have wrinkles, but you realize when you're four years, you didn't really have a wrinkle. Yeah. But just like promises on like, this is going to like cure all your wrinkles, this is going to like lift, this is going to sculpt your face. Tell me a little bit about what you have learned. You've been in the beauty industry for a very long time. You work with L'Oreal and so many different people on what actually works for you. So tell me a little bit about topical skincare that is not worthwhile and topical skincare that's worthwhile. So my my area of expertise is the beauty from the inside out, but I'm very lucky to have friends in the beauty industry and beauty editors and top dermatologists and all of that kind of thing. So I learned from from that. I think if something is just like anything with health and wellness, if something's promising and a miracle result, it's probably not going to get it. You know, there's nothing that is actually going to turn back time. There is no it's not death becomes her. So we have to go exactly. Yes, there's you know, and great there's so much transparency around most people who's having faceless, etc, etc. But creams and serums and topicals can only do so much. Now that doesn't mean that they can't be incredibly powerful, that they're a great piece of our skincare routine. It's funny, I went to get a blowout today and I was talking to the both my the woman doing my hair and the person next to me about retinol. Again, I think a lot of it comes down to foundations and what works for you and what doesn't. So good foundations, we know SPF my God, I wish I hadn't done the sunbeds in my 20s. But a good SPF a good vitamin C really good nourishing moisturizer at night and eye cream. You know, find the brands that work for you work to your budget, that can be some really great budget buys and they can be some really great, really expensive buys. There are some creams and serums that come onto the market around that $800 price. I talked to one of my dermatologist friends, she's like, there is no cream or serum right now that is worth $800 that is going to do that, spend that on something else. Nothing is going to be a miracle. Find what works for you. And just because something says anti aging anti wrinkle firming, pumping, it might not be that for you. So for me, as you can see, I'm really pale retinol doesn't work for me. Retinol just makes me dry and scaly and it's not a good look. But a vitamin C fantastic, a really good rich moisturizer. Great. So it's really finding about what works for you and just knowing that, you know, there's no such thing as a miracle product. And then also, what are the companies that have been out there for a long time? I like to use, you know, brands like revision brands like skin suitable that have been there for a long time, lots of clinical studies. And then I also, this is kind of a by the by bit spend the money on things that stay on your skin for the longest. So we don't really need to be worrying like just get a nice body wash. Don't worry about that so much. But think about the lotion that's going on your skin. What ingredients does that have? Is that going to be beneficial for you? So think about where you spend your money as well. I love that you had, you know, you had written me some notes here before the podcast and you just talked about there's a lot of things that you can look up that have like studies on them. So if you're, should I do retinoids, right? Yeah, should I be doing this type of serum or antioxidant? And if there are things that have studies that just it's been proven like you can look, you can literally chat GPT this mess, yeah, to be like, okay, does topical hyaluronic acid actually work? Yeah, there's so much information and studies on it that yes, it does in fact have proof that it works. But when you wash it off, it goes away. Yeah, exactly. You can learn these things pretty easily before you go and spend a ton of money on different things. So I love that there's starting to be a lot of transparency because I do think the topical industry, while it can be great, you know, have some friends who have some incredible like med spas, they're so honest with me. So many things are like, here's the one brand that I like swear by all these other ones have just been a waste of money, you know, and they have no reason to tell me these different things because they look up, they learn all the studies and all the different things. So, you know, anybody listening who's investing a ton into topical, like just make sure that it's something that has a little proof behind it, or you might literally be wasting your money on hundreds and hundreds of dollars a month, if not thousands, I have friends who spend thousands of dollars a month on topical cream. So don't keep switching. Like just like anything just like supplements, just like diet, just like fitness, it does take a little while to see your results. So don't keep, you know, I see people with, you know, so so many products, I'm like, are you using anything, you know, consistently? So I think the consistency piece of the puzzle as well. But for me, it's all about, yep, topical skin care is great. But it's what you do from the inside out is the most important piece of the puzzle. Because it can only go so deep. Can any guy say deep? So let's talk about the, you know, there is a huge movement right now. Yeah, like literally when I had started creating Glossy number one, I had no idea what would be coming. I had a feeling that we were going to start really talking about just because with just with AI coming and everything that you can learn about everything. Yeah, like there is such a wave of different supplements and things being studied for your skin and your gut health for skin and how that's connected. And because I started to see this gut skin idea pop up, I was like, Oh, this is like people are going to start, they're going to get this, like it's gonna be ingestible beauty. I just felt like, Oh, my gosh, this is going to be so huge. And so it's like, I want to be on the front end of it, because I have always felt that way. But how can I make something that's easy for people who don't want to question it? So with that, now there's such a movement that in, you know, I believe also just introduce, introduce like a massive section in their store where it's kind of like ingestible beauty. Yeah, then it is the, you know, topical skincare and then it's the makeup saying like these are your three steps, like you kind of aren't skipping these steps anymore, because this is the trifecta of what, you know, quote unquote, like beauty is like to take care of your skin. So tell me a little bit about, because I know that you are beauty from the inside out. You are writing a book. Yeah, yours. Like this is your expertise. This is my jam. Yeah, this is your jam. Tell me, tell me about beauty from the inside out. Why you're so passionate. Yeah, it's interesting. So I first started getting into this in 2017. So I was working as a nutritionist at a high end health retreat. And one of our clients there, one of our guests was a dermatologist. And she came to me and she said, I love what you're talking, I love your approach, because I was really coming, we did everything from nutrition to sleep to lifestyle on that retreat. And she said, my patients are not getting the results that they want from the procedures that they're having, you know, they're having lasers, but the inflammation isn't going down because their diet is so bad. And this is a upper east side Manhattan practice, very high achieving, very busy women. And they're paying all this money for these treatments, but they're not getting the results that they wanted. That's frustrating for them for them. And for the doctor as well, because she's doing everything that she can. But if we're not thinking about the inside out piece of this puzzle, how does that affect the results that they're getting? And I was like, Yeah, that sounds amazing. And then had to dive head first into learning about all of this. Now this is back in 2017, no one was really talking about this. I remember magazine articles that I'd write back then 2017 2018 was like, the main question was, does what we eat really influence our health of our skin? The answer was he being yes. Now the conversation is, what are the best type of collagen peptides for skin? How do we reverse a zempic face? What type of vitamin C should I be taking? Should that be a capsule? So we've really got detailed into it. But back in 2017, Dr. Rusek and I first started, we were a little bit ahead of the game. Now what we see a lot with what's happening in the medical aesthetic space with things like sculpture and our bio stimulators is really are we giving our bodies the building blocks to make these new collagen to make this new elastin. So that's really where we've come to a big part of our practice has always been the gut health. It's always started with the gut, you aren't what you eat, you are what you absorb. Because if we've got clients coming to us or patients coming to us with acne or rosacea or lots of inflammation, that's all stemming from the gut. And any treatments that we're doing, topically, if we're stimulating anything, we want to be able to bring that inflammation down a lot quicker. So really a lot of our work starts from what's happening in the gut. Now, as you can imagine, that's quite a challenging conversation or it used to be a challenging conversation with our patients back then. Nowadays, people understand it a little bit better. But there's still a ways to go in terms of what is actually impactful for our skin for diet, nutrition, supplementation. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into, because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about, from what customers see to what they don't see, like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses, get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast. And for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between, choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees. And there's zero pressure from blackout and motorized options to classic shutters. Blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout, limited time offer rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stops thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. Choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in to create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. So something that's so popular right now for an alternative to filler is Sculptra. And there's a couple other things too that are out there and I'm doing them done them other things because I'm like, okay, I'm 44. I've lost a lot of like just volume in my face. I don't want to do filler, but I want to keep that like nice plump looks. And number one, I absolutely am obsessed with obviously my product. Number two, when we're doing things like Sculptra and other things that we're spending a lot of money on for these natural fillers, you know, you had chatted with me about the importance of making sure that we support that with our nutrition because you could be spending all of this money on Sculptra, which can be thousands and thousands of dollars. It's expensive, which I'll have you just explain what it is quickly for people as well. What kind of what Sculptra is? Yeah, yeah, okay, just a general, a general idea. So people kind of understand. But we have to be supporting it with our nutrition. Otherwise, it's kind of going to waste a little bit. Like there's ways to really get the maximum benefits on it. So let's chat about that. Yeah. So Sculptra, we have a number of these bio stimulatory fillers. So they're not like our hyaluronic acid fillers that just kind of go in the skin and sit there. What these new types of fillers do is that they actually tell ourselves to regenerate. So it's kind of switching on that little signal to say, Okay, I want you to make more collagen now. Fantastic. So it gives a lot more natural and long lasting look. So you have a couple of sessions of these, and they last two to three years. But if we're not giving our body the building blocks to make new collagen, we're essentially wasting our money. So we're switching on the signals to make this new collagen. But if we're not getting that in from our diet and from our supplementation, we're not going to see the best results. So when we pair those results, when we pair a collagen maxing diet with these new types of fillers, that's when we're going to get the best results. And what are the things we want to pair them with? Yeah, it's a number one protein. So we have to think about again, we break these things down into our peptide chains and to our amino acid chains, we're getting protein in the diet, we have enough protein, our body's going to say great, I've got that protein in, let me take those amino acids and let me put that into the skin. So number one, collagen peptides, again, there's a lot of pushback on collagen peptides, we do have clinical evidence that they do help with fine lines and wrinkles. So if we want to make more collagen in our skin, it makes sense to add more collagen in our diet. So we can do that through collagen peptide. We can also do that through something like bone broth. So you know, if we're having bone broth a few times a week and collagen peptides every day, fantastic. And then the other parts are vitamin C. So vitamin C is an essential cofactor for collagen formation. So making sure that we're getting vitamin C. Personally, I do, I like a liposomal or a powdered vitamin C. So if you're taking those big hard vitamin C capsules, you're probably not going to get a lot out of them. So a liposomal or a powdered is a really good one. And then zinc is also a really essential cofactor for collagen production. Okay, we love this because we have zinc, we have vitamin C, we have hyaluronic acid. Yes, we don't have the collagen in there. But what's it do you have a collagen that you love? There is a company called Arjeaux-Natter that have a marine collagen and pearl powder. It's really nice. It's really expensive. But that one's very well absorbed by the body and the pearl powder. I feel like it gives my skin a glow. I don't know. So I really like that one. But we don't have to get everything from one supplement. And I think that's something again that we also need to think about is if a supplement has too many ingredients, is there enough of any of those ingredients for it to be efficacious? This is a huge conversation because I would love to put everything in glossy. But we no one would buy it if it was that expensive. And so if there is everything in a powder that you're looking at, it should be so insanely high priced. Because it costs so much money to get good ingredients. And so that's why we went with just a few key ingredients for your skin so that we could, number one, people would afford it. And so that we could put the amounts in there that actually made a difference. So that's what we looked at when we were making this product was, okay, if there's hyaluronic acid in there, what have the studies been based on? Like what amount? Okay, with the probiotic, what amount had the studies been based on? And you know, if there's vitamin C in there, okay, well, how much of this are they actually going to need in order to make a difference? So that was huge for us because we actually started making this in a time where there were some people who have, there's companies that are huge out there that you definitely know if I name drop them. And maybe you take them that were under fire because they have so many things in them. They claim to be like an all in one for you. This is all you need, almost 100 ingredients and some things. And in order to do that, that must be like a fairy dusting. You would have to take like 50 packets a day to get the amount that they're claiming for the claims. So I think that's something really important to look at is like, what are the amounts? If it's saying it does everything, is there enough in there to even do anything? Right? Yeah, I think the amount needed to be efficacious to actually create a change in the body as showed by clinical studies. We don't see that in a lot of these big, big name, big, big marketing budget supplements. Unfortunately, and I know we're both thinking of exactly the same. We are. And there's another one that I actually I like. But I had ordered a bunch of boxes of it. And I was looking at the serving size and it was for a day. Yeah. I was like, okay, well, that's a really expensive, right? This is going to be a really expensive subscription. Like we just went from, you know, like $60 a box to now needing four boxes for the month. And then you have to remember to take that four times a day. And most people are not doing that. So then you're not getting it in the right amounts. And you're kind of wasting your money. Yeah, it's a crazy I was just having this moment because obviously I'm now in this supplement industry. I'm like, it's hard to communicate this to the customer. Yeah, because the customer still wants it to kind of do everything for a low price. Yeah, it's just like, well, they're kind of wasting their money. So you do have to be you have to kind of get educated. Well, it's not kind of you need to get educated around what you're looking at. And I think, you know, if you're going to spend money on the Sculptra, if you're going to spend money on that, you want it to be working. Yes, this you guys, this is like thousands of dollars women are starting to spend on these things. So you can just get such a better result if you're supporting it. So I love I love knowing like this is so powerful for me because I am doing those things. Yeah, oh my gosh, if I've been wasting my money, but thank God, I've been I've been drinking glossy, I just need to add a really great collagen. Yeah. So okay, we love this. Let's talk about longevity of results. And I know we kind of just talked about this. But what would you say for skin is like your formula of like, this is what I'm going to be doing all the time for the skin internally. Higher protein diet, polyphenols, I know we touched upon this, but polyphenols, antioxidants, you know, what so for skin because we touched on that for other things, but for skin, let's go 100% So what antioxidants do is that they stop oxidative stress or they help reduce or prevent oxidative stress. So that's a really big part of premature skin aging and also inflammation. So I'm going to be thinking about, well, let me go back to the start. Gut health number one, if I want to lower my inflammation, if I want to manage my inflammation, if I want to make sure that I'm absorbing all of the nutrients from my foods to get to my skin, I'm going to be thinking about gut health. I'm going to be thinking about higher protein diet because I want to give my body the building blocks to make collagen and elastin. And also facial muscle as well. This is a really interesting one. Something that I've been talking about some of the medical advisory boards that I work with is that if we're thinking about now kind of jumping around, but we're thinking about GLP use and we're thinking about rapid weight loss and we're losing muscle mass as well. It's really hard to put muscle mass back in the face. We know that we can squat, we can lunge, we can do all of those things to put the muscles back in our butt. Putting muscle back into our face is really, really challenging. So I want to make sure that I'm keeping those muscles in my face so I'm going to have a higher protein diet. Then I swear by collagen. I think collagen is fantastic. I'm always going to be taking collagen. Vitamin C is something I'm always going to be taking just for the collagen production, but also because it's an antioxidant. I'm always going to do a probiotic for my skin. I'm always going to stay hydrated. I think something that is not hyaluronic acid is a really great one. I actually prefer hyaluronic acid serum. I do occasionally when I remember, but I take a hyaluronic acid in Glossy. Staying hydrated is always going to be a really big important one. I think also people don't understand the impacts of stress on our face until I give them the example of think about Barak Obama when he first went into office, when he came out of office. President's age very, very quickly. It's insane. It's insane. The impact that stress has on your face because when we have really, really high cortisol that can break down the collagen of the lastin fibres, stress is a really big one as well. We all know people who look older after they've been through stressful periods. So managing your stress is just as important. For anyone listening, can you just explain the difference between...  topical skincare, and what you feel so strongly about what we've been talking about internally. Yeah, so the close and the title is topical. So it's only going to go a few cells deep. So we know that collagen in skincare products doesn't actually help you produce collagen on that deep cellular level. So if we want to rebuild our collagen, we want to rebuild our lats and we're doing that from the inside out. Creams and serums and topicals are going to help with the appearance of our skin, but they're not going to be able to help benefit our skin on that deep structural level as our diet and supplementation can. Okay, so I want to do a round of smash or pass with you. I think I know this first one, but collagen. Smash. Creatine. Smash. Okay, why? We have a lot of clinical studies on creatine. We know how beneficial it is for preserving and maintaining and helping to create the muscle mass. It's also really beneficial for brain health. So creatine is definitely my go-to for pretty much everybody, but definitely women over 40. And does creatine do anything for skin? Do you know or not? Here's the thing for skin. There's never as much clinical research on that, but yes, we do know. We have to think about the composition of all of ourselves. Yes, we do know that creatine is beneficial for skin as well. I'm excited as we start. I think we're going to see so many studies in the next couple of years on everything for skin. So I'm excited about that. Yeah. I think that's a watch the space. Yeah, definitely. I'm excited about creatine. I would love to make a creatine. So there you go. Okay, protein, but from like popcorn, cookies, cereal, like everything that's now Starbucks has a new protein foam. Yeah. So protein, like protein popcorn, cookies, cereal, et cetera. Sorry, Kardashians, but it's going to be a pass just because of let's get our protein from good real food sources. Now, okay, here's the thing. Again, a lot of this is it depends. If you're having 100 grams of protein from real food sources, and you want to have a bag of whichever Kardashian it is protein popcorn, that's fine. If however, you're avoiding your chicken breast, your salmon, your turkey breast, your tofu, your quinoa, because you just want to go and eat basically processed food with added poor quality protein powder, then it's definitely going to be a pass. You're going to be not looking like you want to look. You're not going to be looking like you look. All right, weighted vest. Smash, but just know that they shouldn't be your only exercise routine. It's not going to it's not, you know, yes, wouldn't it be wonderful if we could just put on a weighted vest and never have to go to the gym? It doesn't work like that. It doesn't create the same physiological response. Yeah, it's interesting. There's a world out there called rucking and that's like where you really put weight on. That's like kind of like 15 pound 20. You want to be duplicating almost like what they do in the army, you know, when you're carrying like a big pack or people who, you know, climb mountains and all the things. Now, rucking, I absolutely can get behind. Yeah, that is hard core. Yeah, that is like, that is the such a workout. You guys have literally no idea. I used to ruck with like a 40 pound on my back and it's like even two miles, you're like dying. Yeah. But with that said, weighted vest. Yes, I can sort of see the benefits. I don't know how I feel. Yeah, I don't know how I feel. They do have, you know, they have some benefits. But again, let's make it that last one to two percent of what you're doing. Right. It's not going to, it's never going to replace getting in the gym and squatting and lunging and rowing and bench pressing and pull ups and all of those exercises. I know we always want to find a way out of doing that. But nothing is going to replace that. I agree. There is nothing like making sure you get a workout in with weights like heavy weights. It's good. All right, probiotics for skincare. Smash, smash, smash. Okay, smash, smash because gut health, gut skin, everything we talked about connected. But also our skin has a microbiome. I mean, that's a whole other conversation, but our skin has a microbiome. If we don't look after our skin microbiome, our skin can look dull and dry and dehydrated. So probiotics for gut health and for skin health. Okay. Intermittent fasting. Pass. I prefer time restricted eating and eating in line with our circadian rhythms. Okay. And you had mentioned this kind of like stopping eating at more like a five 30 or six and trying to get that window in so that you can get that food in the morning for yourself. Yes. And having good enough blood sugar balance that you don't need to eat every two to three hours. Okay. Okay. I'm nervous about this one. Masha. Smash. Great. Again, nothing is a, you know, if you're doing everything else wrong and only having matcha, then okay, we're going to have to have a conversation. But no, really, really full of it's a really great source of polyphenols, which, you know, polyphenols are my thing. Okay, you don't know this one is coming, but whole milk. Whole milk. I'm not anti dairy. Great. So you can keep having that. I'm like, I get my matcha with whole milk. Yeah. I'm not, you know, again, it depends. I sound like a stuck record, but it depends. Now, if I've got a client who really needs to lose some weight for metabolic health reasons, and I'm probably going to say, let's not do a whole milk, let's do a skimmed or a 1%, but then someone might be like, well, that is going to spike your blood sugar. It's going to cause digestive intolerances. So there's a milk out there for everybody. And there really is now. There's literally a milk for everyone. I'm like, do you want cashew? Do you want almond? Do you want like, what would you like? It's, you can milk everything. You can milk everything. You certainly can. Okay. Red light therapy. Smash. Okay. Cold plunging. Pass most of the time. Okay. Again, it's a real stress around the body. And so unless you're like, for me, I hate it. Yeah. Unless you're like super chilled out, no stress. I just don't think it is necessary for the benefits it's going to get. Literally super chilled out. Yeah. Okay. What is sleep maxing? So sleep maxing, really what we talked about in terms of everything that we talked about circadian rhythms, not having screens in the bedroom, freezing cold, eye masks, earplugs, mouth tape, the whole thing. So I'm a yes for sleep maxing. Okay. You are a smash for sleep maxing. All right. Okay, wait, what is fiber maxing? Basically just eating a lot, a lot of fiber. It's again, it's trending. Do we want to eat more fiber? Yes, let's get it from fruits and vegetables, you know, seven to eight servings a day. All of the fiber supplements can actually cause more digestive issues than be beneficial. So let's get our fiber from fruits and vegetables, but let's sure we're making, we'll be able to digest those. Let's make sure our gut health is good. So I'm probably in a pass for fiber maxing. Okay. Collagen maxing. Yes. So like all over that. Like doing a ton of it. Like so not just taking a ton of collagen peptides, but doing all of the things that we can support our collagen peptides. So extra vitamin C, red light therapy, higher protein diets, zinc, magnesium, etc. etc. Okay. Caster oil packs. Pass. How come? It's not enough clinical science behind it. Okay. I mean, if it makes you feel good, here's the thing for me with a trend, if it's not harmful and it makes you feel good, go for it. Isn't there a trend castor oil like in your belly button? Yeah. What is that? Is that a pass? It's a pass. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I think it's an aerobatic practice. It's not something I know enough about, but I just cannot figure out the mechanism of all of these miraculous benefits that putting a tiny bit of castor oil in your belly button. I could do. I mean, it might feel nice, but okay. I'm not sure if you know about this one. Oil pulling. For your teeth? Yeah. I'm going to say smash. I have actually talked to my dentist about this. I just don't have time to do it. Yeah, exactly. But if you do go for it. Yeah. All right. Bone broth. Smash. Okay. Serums. It depends if it's a good one. You know, serums can be everything from a vitamin C to a hyaluronic acid. So if you've got the foundations on, then I'm going to say smash. Okay. Ingestible hyaluronic acid. Smash. All right. Like the new skims like face bra, holding everything up. Pass. It may, you know, if you have a, let's say you wear one overnight and you have a photo shoot in the morning, it might give you very temporary benefits, but nothing is going to give you long term lifted in that way. It's like those girdles that people wear. I'm like the waist trainers. The waist trainers. Yeah. You're like, it's great. That might last for a minute. Yep. And then it's going to go right back out. So enjoy that brief amount of time. Gua Sha. Smash if you have time. Okay. I think just a really good facial massage can be great. I personally have a little red light device that like vibrates and is warm and is red light that you can do the same kind of thing with. So that's what I do. I don't have time for all of that in the morning. Yeah. Facial ice baths. It's going to give you some, let's say toning and depuffing. So yeah, smash if you have time. Like none of these things, so many of these things don't have long term benefits. What about the electrical current? So I have asked all of my dermatologists and plastic surgeon friends and they say, nope, doesn't work whatsoever. I have one and I think it works. Interesting. So, you know, so there's always a, if it works for you, then go for it. Okay. So you like to electrocute yourself, but there's no science behind it. But I think that it works for me. Yeah. Okay. Like face masks. A lot of people spend money on the, you know, face mask eye, the under eye patches. What do we think of those? They're great short term. Okay. So they're going to hydrate, they're going to depuff, they're going to get rid of fine lines of wrinkles, but in a short term. Now they will help reduce moisture loss over the long term. If we're, you know, we want to be moisturizing day in, day out twice a day. But yeah, great for short term. But again, long term is about consistency. It's about inside out. It's about doing the foundations, right? Okay. Well, I'm so excited that you came on the show and give us all of your info. This was so much fun. Where can people find you and work with you if they're interested? Yeah, come over and find me on Instagram at Jennifer Hanway. That's the best place to find me. I also have a podcast, The Science of Stunning, but connect with me there or connect with me at JenniferHanway.com. I mean, who doesn't want to listen to the science of stunning? Right. Yeah. So that's all info, just on beauty from the inside out. It's the deep dive into all of the things that we've talked about today. And I get some of my great beauty editor and dermatologist friends on there. So yeah, it's just a place to come and hang out and talk all things wellness and beauty nutrition. So fun. And I know you have so many things in the future that you are working on for all of us that I'm so excited about. And you guys definitely go and check out the show notes because I've linked everything up where you can find the podcast, you can find her, you can go follow. And I'm so grateful for all of you. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.

=== FILE: Become Instantly Memorable in a Noisy Online World with THIS Messaging Framework with Ashley Brock [DSi0yuhmEXM].txt ===

 there's two things that the brain can latch onto. It is rhymes and alliterations, and actually there's three, sorry, metaphors. Our tagline, which I shared, is advertise your name, make it rain. One of the guys that's doing our basement at our new office building, he renovates basements. I said, you need to say, we renovate and elevate your basement to take the bottom level to the next level. Oh, dang! Having a tagline allows you to separate yourself. So many people have sat in that chair, and the people that I remember have had something like that. Every single one of them, if people cannot get it in a bite size when they leave, unfortunately, I forget them. Ashley, welcome to the podcast! I am so pumped. No, I'm way more pumped. I'm winning. I'm more pumped than you. I don't see you. I don't know. It's going to be so good. Yeah, I'm really excited because you are, what makes the best podcast, I feel like, is when there's so much an excitement and energy for me and for my audience around the topic. And I will tell you between our mentor, collective mastermind and our elite mastermind, in just my audience in general, I've actually been surveying people a lot in stories and asking, what are the main things that you would love to learn and love to learn from me? And messaging is winning across the board everywhere. Really? Everywhere. Okay. Interesting. That is. So I know that you teach so much on multiple things, but you really are your zone of genius's ads, and then messaging is just such a massive part of that. It is. So you guys, we are going to get ready, buckle up, because I actually just got right before this, a full hour of training with my team, and our wheels are spinning, our minds are, like our whole world just got flipped upside down. We're so excited. So stay tuned because we're going to be giving you so much good stuff throughout this entire podcast. Get ready, get your notes, get all the things. You're going to listen to this multiple times. But Ashley, I would love for you, because let's just set up the insane credibility that you have. I want people to understand who they're about to learn from. So they stay tuned in. Yeah. They tune back in multiple times. So tell us a little bit about your background, and then we're going to dive deep into some framework that you have. I love it. I'm so pumped. That hour was so fun. It like flew by. It flew by. In fact, I was like, okay, what are you doing for the next three hours? Yeah. What are you doing for the next three weeks? Yeah, she taught all day, you guys, already at Jasmine Stars. Mastermind. Yes. You're crushing it, girl. Thank you. Your energy is amazing. I know you might be dying inside, but it surely doesn't show. I have prayed to be able to find a community of people that see the value that I can help. And so honestly, today has been a dream. Great. I hope it's energizing for you. It is. Yeah, I don't know. I don't want to drain it all. So okay, we're at a different place than we were. So I'll start with, I guess, where we were before. So I worked at four ad agencies for about a decade. And I started with small businesses and then it ended up growing to where I was working directly with the CMO of these billion dollar fortune 500 companies. So all day, every day from the moment I graduated, I have been doing ads. And what I really loved is most people teach a type of ads. But what I got to do at the ad agency for these 10 years was understand where are the different places you should serve your ads. So not just Facebook and Instagram. Actually, at the ad agency, 90% of my clients spent the majority of their money on Google and YouTube. Yeah. So it's crazy when I left and went into the entrepreneur world, I was like, everybody's doing Facebook and Instagram. And yes, it works. And we just talked about my budget allocation out there. But what I found is your competitors and your prospects are on Google, YouTube, Pinterest, TikTok, LinkedIn, Amazon, Spotify, all these other places. So being able to understand when do you use Facebook and Instagram ads and what should your messaging be there and how should you use these other platforms. That's what we do specifically is teach people how to do that. So I just worked at an ad agency. Honestly, I had my first son and I was working on an account that they're called Thumbtack. They're a home service provider. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Use them. Yep. Amazing. Same. So great company. So they were one of my clients and they spent over six figures a day on ads. Wow. But I had multiple clients spending six figures a day on ads. And so because of that, I was so grateful I was on these big accounts. I was like, this is so resume building and they wanted hourly updates on performance. Understandably, but it was so hard. I felt like I couldn't escape my desk. Hourly. You're still working on something. I know. But an ad agency, you have to pretend like you are my only client. You can have everything, but it's like you have five others. And I was doing Dollar Tree's advertising, California Closets. Like there was all these incredible companies we were doing. And I loved it. I was working so much. So as a result, my marriage, it's way better now, but it was really bad for about a year. And I was like, oh my gosh, what if I'm the only one in this situation? So I need to start my own business. I was like, I want to be able to provide for myself if this doesn't work out. It has worked out. We're so happy. It's great. And so now I'm in a place where we have grown the business to a nearly eight figure business in less than three years. I have 14 teammates. My husband and I just donated over $25,000 to a couples counseling. For the people that I feel like are responsible for helping save our marriage. Yeah. And so now things are in a very different place. And so that's where we are. I get to do ads all day every day. And I love it. Oh, I love that. So for everyone listening, just to set up who this conversation is for. I told you I have a physical product. Yeah. Beauty supplement. You said absolutely. You can, you know, if you end up learning this framework, the structure, the messaging, like you're going to crush it on that if you do it for your personal brand. If you have a brick and mortar, all of these things. So technically all of this is for anyone who is selling. Yes. I basically say if you have something you want more people to find. Okay. We teach you how to become findable. Okay. Become findable. That's it. One of the names. I throw a little trademark. Yes. Yes. So good. And that's what everybody is doing right now. And I think, you know, one of the, the main reasons that ads are becoming so big is that algorithm has completely changed. And so even for, I was kind of telling you with Chris and I, in the past, we just really relied on the podcast, our email list, our text list and social media. Yeah. And so we had done ads for our fitness membership years ago. And that's, we ran it off of ads. Oh yeah. And it did great. But then we found for like the personal development stuff. Nobody was, there wasn't a ton of people doing ads for like personal brands. So we kind of just set it to the wayside and really found a lot of success in what we were doing on social and on our podcast. Yeah. But this year is totally different. I will tell anybody listening like, and I think that they know some people it's changed for, or some people it hasn't changed as much because maybe they had a really good like back end and system and they were already starting to do ads. Yeah. But everybody needs to learn this now because the algorithm is different. And I feel like if you are not an insane, organic content creator every day, you're going to struggle to find attention. Yeah. So this is why this is so powerful right now is because there were a lot of people doing their one way. Yeah. And they need to learn another way. I agree. I even have some clients that are like some of the top 10 on Amazon and they are like, I'm so great at content and I don't want to do it every single day to be findable. Yeah. Like, you know, it's like it's like mentally draining. They're like, I can I have a world where I actually take a week or two off of posting content and actually still have money in my business? Like that's the question because they're so good at it. Yeah. But I really do agree that the algorithm is almost like forcing you to pay to play a little bit. So yeah, I completely agree. I mean, obviously I'm like, I do see the value in it, but I see the value in any time you're acquiring an asset and I feel like the skill of advertising is an asset. So oh my gosh. Yes. So one of the main things that people struggle with is messaging. Yeah. So let's talk about the framework that you teach on. So I'll let you dive into that. Yeah. So this is called the Rainmaker messaging framework. We love this name. I love it. And so the reason we call this the Rainmaker messaging framework is because our definition of a rainmaker is someone who has an unusual level of skill that brings an unprecedented amount of revenue to a business. And that's what we can do when you get the messaging. You're saying we can all be rainmakers. Yeah, you are. Look at you. You've told it. You have made it rain. And you can make it rain even more. Yes. So often people are like, my coach actually said this to me. I'll never forget. She said, just because you've sold doesn't mean you can sell. And I think about that like ads. I'm like, just because you have gotten a certain result doesn't mean it can't be better. You can 10X anything that you're already doing if you can speed up how quickly those people find you. And especially when you have messaging, right? So it's the Rainmaker messaging. So the R is resonance and relevance. So the way I like to think about this is what is specifically relevant to where they're at. And the way that I do that is so, you know, we were talking about messaging earlier, the three different types of ads was actually four. There's four different categories that you can really allow people to relate to where they're at. So let me explain. So the first one is symptom aware. So let's say, let's use weight loss as an example. So symptom aware would be someone who is aware that their pants don't fit and they don't want to go on date night because they hate that they're not wearing the things that used to make them feel confident. That's symptom aware. Problem aware would be I need to lose weight. Solution aware would be I need a dietician and a weight loss coach. Your solution aware would be like I need Lori, Lori's program when you had that business. So because it that's yeah, yeah, it was fitness before. Yeah, that's right. So I just had a client and she got a she spent 20,000 on ads at 180,000 on her launch, which was very big for her. And it's because she made three different ads for all four of those. So you can resonate with the person listening when you are relevant to where they are at. Are they so struggling with something so long they can hardly see the solution? Are they aware that they need it or are they not? So it's just creating ads that are relevant to where they are. So good. And I think when people are thinking about that, this is informing you guys just this podcast alone, not to mention everything that you offer, but this podcast alone is going to help inform you of all of your content. Yes. What's so cool about this is people don't realize that if you get this, you've now made everything that's been feeling hard in your business easier. You're messaging on Instagram. You're messaging in your emails, you're messaging. So like even testing these there to see what ads you want to do is brilliant. It is. Okay. So we love that we have this structure for that. And that's our that's it. Okay. That's our so good. And you're right. It transfers to anything. Everything when you get this right. So a is articulation. Now, Lori, I do love to rhyme and you're about to hear it. I love I love this. So the reason I rhyme is because the brain like attaches. Remember, that's it. So a is articulation. So I like to say articulation leads to the elevation of your communication. I love it. So it's not just what you say. It's how you say it. This meta research for meta further ads said that 47% of a video's value is delivered in the first three seconds and it's exponentially more likely to continue watch time when the articulation is strong. So it's like just being clear and having energy with how you say energy is separate. We'll talk about it, but how you articulate your message. So clearly, you know, have you ever met someone you shake their hand and you're like, what do you do? And they tell you and they're you're like, I have no clue what they actually all the time. Yeah, they didn't articulate it well. Yeah, truly. They just didn't know even what to say. So that's why the work that we're doing in the messaging on how to articulate it matters so much. So they say 7% is the words 38% is the vocal tone. 55% is body language and facial expressions. So it's just how you're articulating it, not just with your words, but even with your body. Totally. On how you're delivering it. Love that. Yeah. That is I like go to the video and watch this because you can actually see there is like projection and energy behind it. And I feel like even when people are even when I'm podcasting alone in this room and doing like a solo episode, I'm I'm actually moving. Yes. I'm like doing it with my face because what all of you don't realize is that you are feeling how we're moving like you're absolutely energy behind everything. You are. And so I love that. Like even practicing this like kind of watching really great speakers and going out in and trying it even by yourself or in the mirror, like the energy that will be behind it. People fear feel it. It transfers. They do. Yeah. They do. What's that saying? It's like people how you how you feel when you record it is how they'll feel when they watch it. Oh, God, that's so good. That's it. Mm hmm. That's it. So the are you ready for I'm ready. All right. So I is identifiability. Okay. So this is identifying who you are talking to. So you might have, you know, for one of your programs, you specify that they're at a certain amount of revenue, like less than 500,000. Yeah. Then you have another one where it's like, hey, you're at this higher revenue. Having an ad that calls out exactly who that is for very specifically matters. Now, here's where we take it a leather a layer further. And I love this. Have you heard of the five love languages? Yes. Okay. So what is the five love languages say? It's like how you give love should be how they want to receive it, not how you want to receive it. Oh, God. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like, I love physical touch. I'm like, what are the five? What are the five? Remember the five? But it's basically like, I love physical touch. So if you hug me right now, I'd be like, she loves me. My husband, like he's like, I don't need to be hugged. I just need to be acts of service. Like you do the dishwasher and he's like, love that woman. I'm like, okay. So what I found that people do not realize with their ads, with their messaging, they're communicating how they like to be sold to. Totally. I'm words of affirmation. So I'm going to just word all over you. That's it. So like, yes. And you're very good at words too. And so there's these four buyer types. And what I found is people create an ad or create a message for the type of buyer that they are, not thinking that there are other people who like to be sold to and like to buy in these different ways. So anytime you can make an ad or an email or a post on social media about one of these types of people, it can help you. So there's four types. And you got to tell me which one you are. Okay. I think I know, but we're going to see. So there's four buyer types. You have the analytical buyer. That person is data driven, needs proof, details, comparisons. You have the amiable buyer. They're more relationship driven. They need trust, reassurance, social proof. They're slower and more consensus seeking. The expressive buyer, they are very excitement driven. They need inspiration, big vision, recognition. They're fast. They're emotional. They like to see the dream come true. And the number four is the driver. They are results driven. They need efficiency, clarity, speed, and they're very fast to make a decision. Can you be a mix? Are you like a three and a half? I'm a three and a four. Yeah. I am too. I am. Totally. I'm like, you got to show me the picture. But yes, and it's pretty fast. Actually very scarily fast. It's like once I trust you, then I'm quicker to make a decision. I'm really like, say last I'll stop your video and I just won't even think of anything else. So we are similar. I actually love that so much. I say brain makers or action takers. So this lines up, Lauren. Okay. So identify ability is who and just thinking how can I make an ad for the data driven person? So like even though I care about numbers, like I'm an entrepreneur, I love my dashboard with the team. But I'm also like, there's someone out there sitting. So I will make an ad that says, here is the exact dollar and return that this person spent, that this person sent to show them there is data to support that this can happen. Yeah. So that's the. Well, I'm thinking of this, you guys, just in terms of, let's chat about just some products so people can hear that. I'm thinking about in terms of because I have the Daily Beauty supplement and it's, you know, Glossy. Glossy. Yeah. It's like a packet that you put into water. Drinkable skincare. Yeah. Drinkable skincare. I love it. Yes. And so when I'm thinking of ads, I'm thinking of the things that I want. I'm like, oh, they must want this. But I forget, well, that's right. A lot of these people really want the science, which we have great science. But I am always like, isn't that kind of boring in an ad? Just seeing science, you know, I kind of want to see more of like before and after. I want to know how I'm going to feel, like what's the benefits. But there are those people who like just want to see like data, you know? Yeah. They do. Like give me the ingredients and why you chose these and whatever. That's good. Totally. You know, for me, for the skincare specifically, like when I think about identifiability, like who would buy that? I'm thinking who wants to show up as the most confident version of themselves. Like you could even do an ad and be like, hey, are you a podcaster? You constantly create content and you want to have that glow because you know your episodes are better when you feel better, right? Yeah. One of the best things you can do is have that skincare. So like you could use that as a great ad. So is that something that you do a lot? Like I'm seeing it all over social media, obviously. And I do feel like my posts perform better with that. Are you seeing in ads the call out, the very specific call out? Are you a podcaster? Are you between, are you trying to get to 500K? Yeah. Very specific numbers. Can you tell me a little bit about that or do you get into that? This is great because this card says that. Okay. So it's about necessity and we say specificity creates necessity. Okay. So that's exactly it. So as specific as you can be, and here's why. The algorithm wants to find the person that will relate to the words that you're saying. So if you say, are you 43 years old? You like to do this. You have, you know, four dogs. You live in this camp. It's like, it's going to say, oh, that's me. And it's going to find the person that's most likely to interact with that. So even, even if you're not 43 years old, you don't have four dogs, that specificity alone of what you, that vision you created, someone can relate to that. For example, there's this guy, he's in the NFL. He has 1.5 million subscribers on YouTube. And I messaged him the other day because a friend of mine was like, do you know him? And I was like, no, but I should. I was like, hey, John, he owns a builder construction and woodworking business. And I said, hey, John, I know we don't know each other very well. I don't do this really ever. But I just wanted to reach out because you're killing it on YouTube and I kill it with ads. What if there was a way you could help me with my YouTube organic and I could help you that? He responds. He's like, here's my email. I'd love to meet. So we get on this call and for 30 minutes, I helped him. The other 30 minutes, he helped me and he called out one of my YouTube videos. He said, you're doing this all wrong. He said, you named this video how she saved you six figures in taxes. He said, that is too general. Never say that. He said, you need to go at it. Go back and say how she shaved me, saved me $722,332 on tax. That specificity is what creates the necessity for them to realize that they need it. He said, generalities, anybody can say that. He's like, be more specific. And so as specific as you can be on a scenario, that's what people are going to draw into. So good, which is crazy because I'm like, that's exactly what I'm drawn to right now. What I think one of the challenges is for people, people like me who are more like visionary, creative, and yes, I have a team behind me. Like I don't do data too much. Can I get into it? Yes. But if my brain stays there, it's like, I just feel like I'm going to die. Or overwhelmed. Yes, totally. So what would you recommend for those people trying to get the specifics of their data and all the things and the exact amount that your client did? And would you have someone on your team? Would you, what are some trackable things that would be great to lead with and ads that you should look for? Yeah. So it's one of the things that we talk and teach about is there's front end metrics and back end metrics. Front end is how they're engaging with the ad. Click through rate, cost per click, view rate. The back end is all the stuff that we really care about. It's like, are they converting? Are they buying? So yes, I have someone on my team that has like an executive summary that sends me every Monday morning and says, here's the metrics you want to know about the challenge or about our performance or about our forecasted revenue. So having someone on the team that can read, because one of the things I say about data is data makes decisions and decisions make dollars. And sometimes the decision, the data says the decision is we should stop doing this thing because it is not working. And so many people, I think that do ads or sometimes they're like, always trying to look at the good side. I'm like, sometimes it's terrible. Sometimes the performance is really bad. And we need to be like, okay, well, what do we do about this? What's our next move? And calling a spade a spade. But yes, having someone on the team to help you figure out what metrics matter the most and what is it saying? Like what do you need to do about it? That's what I love. That's what we teach to. Okay, I love that. Yeah, so good. All right. So that's in for necessity, which is why it matters. So I love this one. So this is memorability. It's in. And so this is so important in your messaging. And I'm going to give you a chat GPT prompt that you're going to love. Okay. So that you can do this. Well, that'd be helpful. It's great. Okay, please. So you want people to remember you. So there's two things that the brain can latch on to to remember so that it's like, oh, that's the person when it comes to your words. And it is rhymes and alliterations. And actually there's three, sorry, metaphors, rhymes, alliterations and metaphors. And so our tagline, which I shared is advertise your name, make it rain. I had a client. Actually, I have two examples for you. So her challenge, her masterclass was called capacity to cash flow. What does that even mean? Do you even know what she does right now? No, no, she, if she has a really large capacity, maybe she'll make money. Yeah, basically, I mean, like it's like, I have no clue what this is. Totally. So I was like, Emily, she's a friend too. I was like, she's in my top tier program. And she's like, Emily, I was like, Emily, this isn't, this isn't good. I don't understand it. She said, well, what would you do? And I'm like, okay, so she's a nervous system regulation coach. So I'm very big on words. And I was like, how can we get them to remember like regulate? So what we did is we called it the regulate to elevate challenge. And it said how nervous system regulation leads to the elevation of your life, body, business and relationships. Hits, right? Yes. I understand that. I understand that. It's for I qualify myself or not. Yeah, that's right. So here's another example. One of the guys that's doing our basement at our new office building, he renovates basements. And I couldn't stop thinking about how his Instagram should not just say we renovate basements. I was like, I was in Hawaii. So I was like, no, no, no, I was in St. Lucia. I was in St. Lucia a month ago and I'm laying there in bed and I was like, no, no, no, it can't be that. And I woke up and I was like, this is what it needs to say. I said, you need to say we renovate and elevate your basement to take the bottom level to the next level. Oh, dang. He loved it too. I was like, yeah. Okay. But like that's what you want to say. It's like, hey, we renovate and elevate your basement to take the bottom level to the next level. Are you interested? It's like having a tagline like that. So here's how I like to do it. Go to chat GPT and say, hey, chat GPT. Here's exactly what we do. Here's why we do it. Here's who we do it for. And here is specifically why we are better and different than anybody else that could do this. Then say, I need a short tagline that is memorable, that uses either a rhyme, an alliteration, or a metaphor. Can you help me? And then plug in one thing I like to do is copy and paste maybe a couple social captions or an email that you felt communicates you really well and just see what it comes up with. And it will come up with a tagline that's memorable that incorporates what you do. So that is really helpful. Granted, that one just came to my brain, but I think my brain was just like reading chat GPT's mind because I know that it's going to try to pull that together. So having a tagline allows you to separate yourself. You know, I have one more idea for you, Lori. So yesterday at Jasmine's Mastermind, there's a girl, she's a wealth advisor. She said at the end, she's like, wait, delegators are wealth creators because she wants to delegate the wealth management. That's so good. And I said, so here's what you do. You have an ad and you say, hey, are you, she works with seven and eight figure founders. She said, hey, are you a seven and eight figure founder? You're working so hard, but your money isn't working as hard as you do. There's a way that you can delegate that to a team of people who can trust with your money. And what I found is delegators are wealth creators. We can help you click the link below. Like imagine if that was her ad. It had everything that you need. And I had that little tagline. You're like, I remember that. Yeah. And so that's what all of us need to find in our business to really stand out. It's so much clarity and everybody that I've ever, my gosh, I think this is my, maybe around my 1500th podcast. No joke. Literally. You deserve a trophy. No, it's just like the best thing ever. You know, it's, it's how I create a network. It's like paid me in space. It's been the best thing that's ever happened to me. But with that said, so many people have sat in that chair and the people that I remember have had something like that. Wow. Every single one of them. If people cannot get it in a bite size when they leave, unfortunately, I forget them. Or what they did. Like I can't even name. I can't even name half the people I podcasted with. That sounds terrible. No. But saying like you, if they don't have something to say memorable like that, that helps me remember and understand. Here's the thing. If you're not understanding, you forget. That's it. You forget them as a person, which is crazy to say. So that is such a beautiful way to make your brain remember. Rhyming is so wonderful for that. But also just help you understand. All you're doing is helping people understand so clearly that I go, you know, with network marketing, one of the biggest things we learned is if it's not duplicatable, if I can't sit here and tell you why or what this thing is and you can't go tell your friend on the phone, because you love it. If you can't go tell your friend on the phone and have her understand, no one, you've lost them already. That's it. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more, when you're starting a business, you need Northwest Registered Agent, because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer-drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale, and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it, like operating agreements, meeting minutes, and thousands of how-to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you, this is life-changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and Sierra Unplatform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. You know how much sleep affects everything from your mood, your energy, and you hear me talk about this with skin all the time. But let's be really honest, unwinding at night for entrepreneurs and anyone who's listening to this podcast is probably pretty challenging because we love to replay the day and think of our big goals and all of the things that we want and need to be doing the next day. That's why my nighttime routine has become a non-negotiable and it's become super sacred to me. And I've been using OSEA products and their dream collection has completely up-leveled how I wind down at night. Their dream night serum and their dream night cream are clinically tested formulas powered by bio retinol and they're designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep, which I really need right now. I wake up feeling like my skin actually got to rest. It feels softer, it feels smoother, and it feels really nourished. And as someone who struggles with really dry skin, I love how rich and creamy these feel without being heavy. So my nightly wind down ritual isn't just about skincare, it's about creating a sense of serenity at the end of the day. So it's choosing products that work while you sleep and this helps me slow down, settle in, and take care of myself because skincare really is self-care and I am also obsessed with the scent of these. And I'm excited to share that OSEA just launched their newest product in the dream collection, the dream bio retinol body serum, which is a full body overnight treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a blend of bio retinol, red seaweed, magnesium, and lavender, which is why I love the smell. It helps reduce visible dryness and dullness, improves elasticity, and lets your skin feeling softer and smoother by the morning. This is absolutely becoming a core part of my body care routine in 2026. So give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skincare from OSEA and right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site-wide with code ERN at OSEAMellaboo.com. That's O-S-E-A-M-A-L-I-B-U.com. It's so normal, Lori. Like we see so many ads and so many posts all day. The only way that someone's going to say now is because they have something and they're saying it in a different way. So why can't you remember Jingles from 1985? Right. I don't know how old you are. Probably not... whatever. I thought you said you were like, were you born then? No, no, no, no, no.  and morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, morphigne, like that's the whole stinking point. Just find their hook and it works. That's it. Wow, that's amazing. All right, so that is on memorability. Literally, sorry I have one in my head. It's like, this is truly 1985 or 80s. Was it alive then, Lori? It's like, we press on nails, they press on in seconds, no glue, no stick. Like, what do we press on nails do? They press on in seconds with no glue and no stick. Do you want that? Yeah, it's so clear. You don't have to wonder what is this for? It's like, that is exactly absolutely I did. So good. All right, continue. No, that's amazing. That's the whole point. That's what they want you to do is to remember it forever. Totally, yeah. You know, most people, Lori, they're just not willing to pay to be memorable and known before someone's ready. Like they want to only be known when someone's ready to buy. Like those businesses, when you think of like traditional advertising, they were willing to pay for the brand exposure so that when you were ready to get pressed on nails, that was what was in your head. Yeah, like 15 years when I was a paying customer later, after I was six years old, now I did buy Lee Pruslin. It paid off. It was a delayed gratification. It really was. People just aren't willing for that. All right, so A is avoidance and I made these up. I really did. But there's a few things I want people to avoid because I feel like I've seen that it performs better. So there's just a couple of things here. There's actually three. So people make the mistake and their ads is they say, hey, when you enroll in our mastermind, you're gonna get access to all these different coaches instead of flipping it and saying, you will get to have clarity on teams, operations, scaling, marketing, social media, when you enroll in the mastermind. It's just putting the payoff first. We're humans, so we think about us first. I'm like, yes, this is what you get. And I see ads all the time. And I'm like, if you would just flip it, they'd actually make it to the end. We're like, oh, it's through that that they get this payoff. So I always ask people, what are the payoffs of what you do? That's something I learned from my sales coach. What are the payoffs? Let's start with that and then say, and that's what you get when you enroll. And so that's the second part is I never say if. I would say, hey, if you sign up for one of our programs, you'll get this. I say, when? It's assumptive. It's like, this is happening when you enroll, if they're qualified. I would never say that to someone who's, I can already tell, you know how some people are just not a good customer? You know what I mean? Oh, God, yeah. Same. I'm like, I can spot it from mile away. I'm like, this is giving, not gonna understand any of the processes, but I fully understand because I've had those customers in and in the beginning, in your entrepreneurial journey, you convince them to come in because you're like, I'm desperate. I'm desperate, I'm desperate. Please. And then you learn really fast. You're like, I will pay you to buy. And now I'm like, I'm gonna cry because I'm gonna pay you not to buy. I'm gonna pay you to never buy again. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then you start qualifying and it's amazing. But you know, every single person, me included, so desperate at the beginning. And so now it's, thank you Jesus, but we can like qualify who we wanna spend our time and energy with. And so I say, when not if, I put the program first. And the last thing is this is just a, this is just an Ashley thing. But I feel a lot of times people will say, hey y'all, hey everybody. And I have even done that. Like we all have done it, but there's only one person watching. And so specifically for ads, instead of saying, hey, hey everybody, if you're struggling with this, you could say, hey, are you dreading date night because you have these favorite pair of jeans and you're not able to wear them right now. There's a way that you can. And I know you've tried, blah, blah, blah. So just having that you moment and like really looking at the eyes of the camera, I took a screenshot of one of my friends, Kaylee. She was, she does PR. And because she's in my program, I saw one of her ads. So I took a screenshot of it and I sent it to her. And I said, I can see that you're reading the teleprompter right above the screen. I was like, and I'm losing a little bit of connection because I'm watching your eyes scroll. And I was like, I really want you to just look into the heart of the camera, make a mistake with the script, but like connect with the person. And so that's one thing I think you can do really do is avoid looking away from the screen, putting your program first, talking to everyone and saying if, but not when. Oh my gosh, I just did these videos. I'll tell you, this is crazy. So it's the intention and the feeling. And it's better to mess up and even feel like you're not necessarily saying it a hundred percent right, but having a true intention and connection. I know that sounds weird, but like with the camera, but thinking of that person in your head and even kind of fumbling through some of it. I'm not saying to like fumble through and not retry, but I literally just test, like I've been doing some, I've just been wanting to get on camera really quick and like talk to my audience like really and my in my bathrobe and talk to people. But I kind of made this quick challenge for myself. I'm like, I'm gonna do what I used to do. And I'm gonna do this every single morning, which I'm not gonna be doing it every morning because I realized it's a very time consuming thing. I was gonna jump on every morning like I used to and do like a quick bathrobe reel, like just 20 seconds to a minute and talk vulnerability. Like what is on my heart? What do I really want them to feel and know for their day? And so I did the first one and it was so authentically, like it was in my, it was on my heart. And I was like, I have to say it. I went to upload it and I'm like, I fumble through. I don't know if I'm saying my point as clear as I want, but when I tell you that like I felt it in my chest, the intention and that one did insanely amazing. Like I actually couldn't believe it, like the amount of comments that happened. I think it's that like for me, like 140 comments of like very paragraphs. I don't typically get paragraphs. Wow, me neither. Like so many. And I was like, so the reason for that was the deep, like getting into everything that you had just said at the beginning of this, like getting the intention, really think of that person, like get in the, like, where are they at? What is their pain? If you were their girlfriend, sitting across from them right now, like I get you. I have been there. This is what I'm like that type of speaking. So then the third morning, you can kind of see I'm starting to get like a little like, what do I say? I put something in my teleprompter, only kind of read it. But when I watched it, I was like, you even I'm disconnected from it. I'm not saying you like whatever I have graced for myself. But I was like, oh, there's such a break in the energy. And that one just like tanked. And it was a great message though. Isn't that interesting? It was more clear. I had it on the teleprompter. It was very concise, but the energy wasn't there. Yeah. So it's like a good like learning that mix, but I freaking love that. It's like practicing this, but just like you said, like that like true authentic, how can you create that connection staring into the camera? Yeah. So Lori, I love that. I love like it takes a lot of, it takes a lot of you to like show up to be able to, I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna have the message. I don't care what it is and put it out there. So no wonder it did well. But yes, I agree. I feel like the brain, when you're looking at that teleprompter, it's just slightly distracted. Like a little bit of it can't connect just because it's trying to think. Whereas when you are just looking at the camera, just talking like you and I, like we could just talk and talk because we're not thinking about anything other than like the person. Totally. Even bullet points sometimes for you guys. Like if you're listening and you're overwhelmed by this already, like just know that what we're trying to say is get a couple points in your head. Yeah. And practice that and like try to do that more from an intentional, like really feel it place rather than like getting everything perfect and reading it. Yeah. And you can always, which I'm sure you do, like get your point and then you can pause and just like, oh wait, what was it gonna say? Yep. Guys edit, just edit it. That's it. That's it. I watched one of your bathroom ones and I loved it. Like challenge one and the resilience. That was the one that was just like, I'm not scripting it. I'm not gonna think about it. Did it go well or not? It went well. Yeah, I loved it. Okay. Cause I did, I actually, that's actually a good point. I was so into the message. I didn't even look at the like social stuff around it. Great. Love that. Yeah. Yeah. So this was good. I really like this. This is how I feel. Yeah. Yeah. Loved it. All right. So Kay and our Rainmaker, Kay is knowledge. And so for another rhyme, cause we love the rhymes. We do. It is lingo is bingo. So here's my example. One of my clients, she attended my challenge and she had never thought about marketing her business. Like she was a speech language pathologist. She hadn't thought about marketing, advertising, social media. She was like, I don't know. She now is so, did so well with her ads. And this one ad, all she did was put lingo on the screen. So it was just a single image ad. So it was just pink and she had words. And all the words said was SLPs, are you tired of soap notes? Now you and I are like, what the heck is that? So SLP means speech language pathologists. And soap notes is some sort of like thing that they have to do when they're with a client, like a client session, something like that's like part of the process. Yep. Okay. And so she put that and that lingo for any other SLP, they were like, that's my person. I am tired of soap notes. And her ad basically said, if you want to use your skills as an SLP, but you don't want to be crying in your car, which is some sort of inside joke they all know, who knows? Like it was the most insider ball game language. And she spent $4,000 and did a $43,000 launch. Wow. Which was a huge deal for her. She made more in that launch than she had made like the whole year. Like it was a really big deal for her. But it was because it was straightforward and she used the lingo and that was bingo for her audience. She was like, oh, she's speaking the language. She knows what she's talking about. For sure. Oh my gosh. If you can sit, there's so many things like that that people don't realize. Is there anything that you do, and you probably have this in some of your courses. Yeah. But practices, things that you can do to kind of like memory joggers. Is there anything that you do personally, even on your team to like sit and strategize? Like is there any inside things that you can think of? Like how do you give yourself space to kind of think of this messaging? So have you ever read the book, The Artist's Way? I have. Okay. You know how she talks about the journaling? Yep. I feel like ever since I began journaling, which is really recent, I feel like I am getting my head clear enough to actually be able to think. I was kind of struggling with a little bit of burnout last year because it was just do, do, do. We were growing so quickly and I was so grateful, but we were hiring a person a month and I was like, this is a lot. You're always in the do. Always in the do and never in the let me just think. Yeah. And what I found for me and the team is I was like, please just like, let's block off some time on our calendar to just think for a minute. What are the things that our clients are saying? What are the pain points so that we can go make an ad on that? Like there's, when I was really in my groove, if I had a sales call with someone and they were considering like say the mastermind or something, I would immediately go record an ad to handle the objection they had just given me. So if they're like, ah, I'm not sure it's gonna be enough time or I don't know about my spouse, I would go. Like, so I just got off the phone. This incredible person, they had this type of business and they said that they don't know if they have enough time. Maybe you're wondering that too. I would handle it and launch that as an ad and they'd be like, wait, was that for me? I'm like, yes. So just having time to think, to create, I think that's helpful. But as far as like actually studying memorization, I like kind of wanna go like research, what does it take to memorize? Cause I'm actually not the best at memorization if there's not an alliteration or a rhyme tied to it. You know? Yeah. Well, I think that that's the keys. Think time and people don't give it to themselves. No. That's not on the calendar. No. To just think. I know. I just realized the other day cause I was feeling kind of burnt out. I was like, what was I doing when I was really in it? You know, when everybody who's had, even if you haven't had some success, it's like, if you know you're a creative person but you're not, or even a very spiritual person, you're not feeling connected to God or you're not getting the downloads, you're not feeling like you're getting the ideas. Most likely it's because something has gone that you used to have, that maybe you used to do a cycle class and your brain could turn off and it was moving your body and you could just think of things that would come through. Maybe you used to walk by yourself a lot. Maybe you used to just turn on music. Maybe you had a longer drive to your job and you didn't realize that that drive is when you did all your thinking. So the other day I realized I used to be a runner but I stopped running, all of the things, my knees, multiple reasons. I had stopped running, but now I do like, I do agree but I'm in a class. And I'm not, it's not this open space of like I'm outdoors, I'm looking at the sky, maybe I'm listening to music or a podcast. So even just recently I've had to work back in like solo walks. Life changing. My content feels easier, my connection feels better, I'm getting answers faster. I told you I literally feel like I prayed for you to come in and teach ads and the next, it was like two days later I had a message in my inbox. Could she come and do a podcast? I was like, thank you so much. This is from like walking and praying and being open. But I think that there's so much of this that people don't understand that is connected to like what's the space you're giving yourself to ask, to pray, to think about what you really need. And so if you're in the do, sometimes you have to be in your business but I do think there's so much to, we think it's gonna make us go slower to give us that space but it makes us go a lot faster. I completely agree. I also prayed for you too, even though I didn't know who you are. But seriously, I feel like that whole point of the artist's way is as we were created by a creator to create, we want to create, but if we don't take time to create, like he can't do his thing. And I just feel like getting outside in nature, in the creation, but it triggers something up there. And I just feel like when you're doing what you're supposed to do, like doors open. So yeah, I was, I'm so excited to work out too. Same. Yeah, so the walks, you know, and actually I think you might, I just like I had an epiphany for me. I used to live in a neighborhood and I would walk every single day up hills for 45 minutes. We moved to this beautiful home in great space. It's a dream home. And I don't walk outside anymore. And I like miss that. It's the only thing about the whole house. I would, I love everything about it, but I just, I love the neighborhood. And I just, it's a back road. So I don't like walking on the road. And I feel like there's, I've struggled with like wanting to have those like free flowing ideas because I've missed the time where like those happen. That's so good. Maybe one or two days a week, because we always talk about that with what neighborhood we want to live in. And we've lived in some that don't have the walkability. So we're like, okay, two days a week, we're going to go park somewhere just to go in that neighborhood and walk. And like maybe it's once a week or maybe it's, but that is like life changing. Okay, I'm doing that. Okay, great. You just helped me. I'll check back in. Amazing. Please do. All right. So knowledge is what you know about Lingo is bingo. And the last two is the E and the R. So E is energy, which I think we kind of just talked about why energy is so important. So for me, I get a lot of ads from my clients. Like they submit it and they're like, give me your feedback. And sometimes I'm like, the script was great. Your delivery was not good. I'm like, were you mad? Like, you know, probably because we hate doing it sometimes. That's it. They're like, yeah, actually hated recording it. I'm like, no wonder. I'm just swearing before it. The ad is giving, I'm mad about recording this right now. Like I can tell. It's all be like, I love you. And let's not put this on the internet. Like because like we talked about people will like feel how you felt when you record it. So I gave, I give this story often. I paid my videographer to come do a big batch day, podcasts, ads, all this stuff. And in the middle of recording something, I just start crying. And so he knows that my favorite song. Yep. He knows that my favorite song that I listened to before we go is unstoppable. So he's just watching me cry. And he's like, are you okay? And I'm like, I just, I just need a minute. And all I know is I'm sitting there in my hands or my head and all I hear is I'm unstoppable. And what happened was I didn't protect my energy that day. So now the way that I have seen that my ads perform the best is one of two things. Either I'm feeling extremely energetically randomly. And I'm like, ooh, I need to just record this right now. That as well. The other thing that as well is when I do a batch day and I've prepared what I want to talk about. I know I'm doing these prospecting ads, these solution focused ads, these problem focused ads, these retargeting. Like I know that I'm going to record all of this. And I protect myself the night before. I get amazing rest. I don't do a strength workout that morning. Cause I'm like, it's low either way. It is. And like a rational load is the thing. I'm like, I'm going to walk that morning instead of do mega weight lifts. I'm going to eat. I'm going to take care of my body. I'm going to be so prepared. One of the things I don't do anytime I'm batching anymore as I never pick up my phone or open to my computer. Like my messages for the whole day go on red. Because if I open that computer, I'm going to get cortisol injected into my brain. I'm like, I need to stay in this like I'm feeling really good and remove distraction. So energy is one of the things that I think people just sit down and they're like, okay, I have a 27 minute block to record this ad. And I'm like, you are rushed. You are not feeling your best. So now I get my hair and makeup done professionally. If I'm going to do ads unless I'm doing sweatshirt mode, which can be a thing, but just really saying, how can I prepare myself to feel the best so that I can just be in the zone? And so that is my goal is to ask yourself, how can you prepare yourself, not just the day up before, to really just kill it with your ads and get much done? Oh God, that is so true. When you think about just it, recording the ads and recording anything like that, that is like your zone. It's like if an athlete or before they go and play a game and this is your game. Yes, this is the game that you're playing. This is what people are coming to you for. They want to feel that energy. And it's like, nobody wants to pay somebody to feel stressed out, chaotic, to not, I always talk to women, we love jamming on the topic of like, what are we really paying for when we pay someone? Like when you really get down to it, yes, articulation is so huge and all the things that you're saying, but my God, you are paying so much for energy. You're paying for, because you want to be like that. You want to feel like how you're feeling from them. That's so good. You're buying hope if they feel hopeful, if they're giving you hope, and you truly are buying someone's energy. So I don't know if you've ever been in a room where it's like, I actually am not even sure what they said, but I am eating out of their hand because they are just like, I can tell life force is coming out of them. And sometimes your life force has died, you know? And so you're like, I will pay any amount to get and you're giving, just so you know, you're giving life force. Yes, you are too. You're in giving life force mode. So it's like, I'm not even sure what I'm buying. I am, I'm very clear cause you're very articulate. But the combination of articulation with like energy and life force and like hope, you're transferring energy and hope to people. Lori, that is so good. I've never thought about like that. But I remember the first Mastermind, the first program I ever bought, I absolutely bought it because she had this confidence that just radiated. And I was like, I want to be able to record a video like that. Yeah, walking to a room like that, record a video like that, stand in front of people that way. You're like, no, I will pay anything for that. For osmosis. Yes. Like give me some of what you got there. Totally. Yeah, love it. And we did, we paid a lot for it. Yeah. I paid this woman, I paid this woman $125,000 to get some energy and thank God it transferred. It paid off. It did is all I gotta say. Okay, that is true. I just want to touch on that really fast before you go to your last one. Like one of the things that is so vital for people who want to go to the next, next level, it's true about getting in the room with them. Like by osmosis, I could, it's like we can learn from you all day. And we like truly, you transfer that on camera, but there is something about when you can work in person with someone too or see someone in person. It's like next level because you do fit and you do change. You do change because energy actually, I just saw a study about it, energy actually changes people when you're with someone. Like you change their brain patterns. Wow. Like the stronger brain pattern is gonna change. It's gonna change the weaker one. So it's why it's like, okay, how about we get into, I mean, if you look at crazy leaders throughout history, like the stronger brain pattern is gonna change the weaker one. So it's like, okay, which room do you wanna be in? That's so cool. Anyway, it makes sense. I don't know why 125 is the number, but I paid $125,000 twice to be near people. Interesting. One was my sales trainer. One was Alex Ramosy. I sat in a room with eight other business owners and just got to watch that whole thing happen. And I absolutely just got to watch how he carried himself. And I'm like, that absolutely transfers. Yeah. I heard a speaker, it was actually Gabby Bernstein, and she said something with the translation or something wasn't working in a country she was in. And everyone wanted her to continue even though they couldn't understand cause they felt her. Like cause she just stopped. That is so good. I was like, okay, got it. We're just get up there and give them energy. So talk about a reason to record your ads when you feel good. Totally. And to call us by dismay. When we stopped, I was like, I can't record again. No matter what. Like I'm not happy. I'm sad right now. I'm stressed right now. There's too many other things happening. I was like, we have to call it today. I'll record another day. Yeah. But when you do show up, you can tell when you show up and you record it and like, that's fire. That's gonna do it. That's gonna do it. It feels good. Feels good. Gosh, okay, well, that was amazing. So my last one is reputation. So you and so many of the people listening to this podcast right now have worked so freaking hard to establish a reputation, to have this credibility, to have this many millions of downloads or this many followers or this many on your email list or this many people's lives changed and all these things. And we think that credibility negates humility. That is not true. Humility, just because you're credible does not mean you're not humble and thankful for it. And people hide their credibility under Bush. And I'm like, you have to say why they should listen to you as soon as possible. One of my friends, she has an eight figure business. Her name is Stacy. Her number one best performing ad starts with the sentence. I'm an eight figure entrepreneur and it's like, yeah, I'm gonna listen to you. Yeah. Because you've obviously created something. Totally. So many people on the internet, you know, do I have issues with this probably? But there's people that maybe teach what I do and sometimes I have to unfollow them to stay in my lane to not get distracted. But some people don't have the skill that the person that you right here listening or Lori has actually worked so hard to create. So if you do have the credibility, freaking state it. State it at the beginning, state it soon. Kaylee, I was watching the person that actually connected Lori and I. So Kaylee had a video that she was sending people to from an ad at the very end of the video. She says, oh, and I was a Hollywood reporter and interviewed all these people. And I'm like, you buried the lead. I wanna work with you now. I'm like, I didn't know that I could trust you. You just seem great. But did you read a blog about PR? Did you actually do it? And I'm like, oh yeah, you actually did this. You have connections. Oh, that's why I wanna work with you. So we, I just, you've got to say that sooner. So in my messaging, I love teaching identifiability. Who are we talking to? And then immediately credibility. Why should they listen to you? And then opportunity. What do you have to offer? And then accessibility. How can they get started? And so just don't, if you're there, like take a minute and sit down, write down the accomplishments and what you've created and all these things. So that you can say that so that people will know why they can listen to you. So good. Two things came up for me. So from a listener who's like, I don't know what my credibility is yet though I'm newer. There's always something there. What would you say to them? Ooh, that's so good. I would say it may take a second to establish something. But someone, I mean, what I did when I had no credibility is I like basically begged people to do my training and just give me a testimonial if they got a win for their ad. That was how we started here. And then someone's like, oh my gosh, I got this. So yes, it might, you might have a credibility gap for a minute. Yeah, you can borrow. Borrow something. Yes, borrow something. Yes. And just say, hey, if you do this, can you just give me a testimonial? And there's your first bit of credibility. So that you can say, hey, last month I actually helped this local business owner do this, whatever it is. It's earned and it takes time. I love that. That's so true. Yeah, you may not have it yet. You might have to every bit of credibility in the beginning. I had to go and do for free. I did. Me too. I trained people for free. I spoke for free. I did all of those things for free. I forced myself into people's lives and like, I swear I can give you a result, but I'll do it for free. I got to use absolutely, oh my gosh, when people immediately want to get paid for something, I'm like, oh, honey. You're like, I went to that one month. No, I know nothing yet. I'm like, but you just give yourself a second to get there. Exactly. OK, second thing that comes up. Yes. I struggle with this so bad because I have a long line of things because I was a pivoter and I am multifaceted. Yeah. You said all these things. I mean, you guys, it's been so long. So it's been give me some credit. It's been like 17 years of this. But with that said, I don't know what credibility to tell people. Like what is credit? It's like I did so much in fitness, but also that transferred so much to entrepreneurship. So is it better to go short like the one that you gave or is it better to do a few? Let's workshop this. Are you ready? Yeah. OK. So for your current business, for your current programs, your mastermind, what is the payoff that people get from enrolling? They get clarity on systems, on team, on back end, on funnel, technically on their foundation of their business. Yep. How long have you been in business to be able to inform some of what you've curated? Almost 20 years. Right. So there's other business coaches that have been in business for like a year. So I'd be like, hey, after being in the business world for over 20 years, I've helped X amount of people. So how many people do you think you've helped in the last 20 years? Oh my gosh. Literally tens of thousands. So and I've been able to help tens of thousands people from their help to their business, to scaling with their team, to operations, to marketing. And I can do the same thing for you. OK. All that says is you're like, yeah. That actually sounds pretty good. I don't know. Is that me? I was like, yeah. It's just taking a minute and saying, like, I don't say, hey, I've spent $200 million on ads. What have you spent? It's like, I've spent $200 million on ads. And what that means for you is you don't have to spend that to figure it out. That's all you're saying. You're saying I put in work so you don't have to. Mm-hmm. OK. I love that. I love it too. It sounds amazing. And like numbers are better than fun. In my head, literally, I'm like, we're going to go back. And we're just going to pull all of these transcripts for me. Thank you so much. That's the goal? Yeah. And people are like, oh, thanks for your podcast. I'm like, no, thank you so that I can. So I can have people on and listen and learn. So I love this so much. I want to know about how people can work with you. Yeah. So you just gave so much information on messaging. Yes. Just informed, oh my god, literally everything that people are. I will tell you, I'm in so many groups right now. This is such a pain point. Wow. Such a pain point. And so I can't wait to share this with everyone. But the next question is this goes into how you really also help people make money with ads. It is. So who is this for? Because there are some people who are like so intimidated by ads. I find women are very intimidated by ads especially. Yeah. I kind of want to know, tell me who should be looking at this and how do we work with you. So the challenge, that strategy we kind of talked about earlier, that's typically the first step. And so day one is messaging. So we did talk a lot about messaging right now. So a lot of that is day one. And then the rest of the days, it's the other areas of ads that people do get intimidated on. They don't know, well, where should I put my ads? That's day two. Day three is, well, who should I put my ads in front of? And then the next day is, how do you test? How do you improve? And then day five is scaling. So it all comes down to the challenge. So I can share that too. Yes, I want to know all about the challenge. So you guys, she's talking about, she went through it with myself and my team. So a week long challenge, five days of training that anyone and everyone can join. That's right. So we have people that are just starting out to six, seven, and eight figure clients that I've met through this training. And so whether it's you or someone on your team, it's a place for you to just learn not how to set up ads. That is what we teach in our programs. This is how to win. It's like, think about Tiger Woods. You could go golf with Tiger. And you could be like, what do I hit here, Tiger? And he could just hand you the club, and you could just take the action. Or you could understand the strategy. Tiger, why are you giving me a six iron on here? Why do you want me to be angled this way? It's like, what is the strategy and why are you doing it? So that if you actually told you the why and what to do, you'd be able to take that and use it over and over again. Bursif, if you just click this button, that's it. You wouldn't know why. So that's the goal is how to win with ads, ultimately. So Ashley's next challenge is starting soon. So you can click the link below and you can join it. And I highly, highly recommend this because I do think that you're gonna be solving way more problems than you even think, especially through this messaging and then ads. So you guys can go and check that out. So Ashley, thank you so much for coming on the show. Laurie, I loved it so much. You're incredible. Oh, thank you so much. This was just an absolute blast for me. So I'm so grateful for you. Me too. Alright guys, we will see you next week. Bye everyone.

=== FILE: Before You Rebrand： Secrets to Successfully Evolve Your Brand, Messaging, & Offers with Rachel Pesso [PnVoQ8pTz9I].txt ===

 when do you rebrand? To me, if you're not making sales with your old brand, nothing about a new brand is gonna help you make sales. I've had lots of clients who have gotten caught up in this before, where they've come from multiple rebrands, and they were losing sight of, this site is supposed to do something. It's supposed to connect with your audience. It's supposed to be a tool. It's not just a pretty store to go into. We want them to take action. [♪ Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Really one of my first web designers, kind of like brand designers that I got to work with and it was such an awesome experience. And I recently just hired you for a ton of stuff again, which was so exciting because I feel like with every evolution of myself and my brand, it makes these times that I get to work with someone like you who really takes what I see and what I feel and what all of you feel. I know you listeners who are like already seeing the brand that you want in your head, you, Rachel, are able to take that and put it out into the world forward facing. So I'm so excited to have you on today because we are gonna talk all about brand alignment and making sure that your brand really speaks for you. And I'm telling you, that's where the money is gonna come in because Rachel and I were actually just talking about this that I mean, right now, I really believe people with the strongest brand are gonna be paid the most. So Rachel, welcome, welcome to the house. You're in person, you guys. So not, she's in Florida and she is in Cali right now. So we're gonna hang, we're gonna do a podcast, we're gonna go to dinner, we're gonna do all the things. So, okay, Rachel, first I wanna just kind of talk about what got you into such a creative position. Have you always known that you were a massive creative in your life? Such a good question. And yes, I had a very creative mom, I did so many different art projects as a kid and I ended up going to school visual arts in New York City. Okay. And from there, I was like, I'm gonna be a creative director at an amazing magazine. And then, life happens, magazines don't exist anymore. So, pivot. Yeah. I mean, I was on fitness covers. I'm like, yep, those are gone. Exactly. So enter the digital worlds. I actually had an amazing friend who helped me launch my business. And she was the creative director for Marie Forleo who I at the time had no idea who she was. And so I just entered this amazing online space. And ever since then, I've just been really being my creative self. And really, I went back to launch my business at a retreat, which was filled with 60 women. And I put myself out there. I had $0, zero paying clients. And just like went to California, met all these women and launched my business there. So you were an attendee. I was an attendee. Okay, tell me about this. Because this is really important for people to hear. What makes people actually take action? Yeah. So my friend who was kind of my mentor at the time. So the woman who worked for Marie Forleo. Which by the way, I believe that's part of why I worked with you. I'm remembering back. Yeah. And basically she was like, you have to go to this retreat and meet all these women. It's going to be the launch of your business. And I was like, what? Like, I don't even know. Like it was back in the day when there was like no retreats. I was like so freaked out. And yeah, this wasn't a thing you guys know. They're a dime a dozen. This was not a thing. This was 2013 into 2014. And I went to like, it was called Live Free, Sarah Janks and Nisha Moodley launched it. And it was like, so many OGs were there. Like Amber Ray, Jada Selner. Like I didn't know who any of these women were, but it was so awesome. And I went there having only my website designed. And I'm like, hey, here's my business. I put myself out there. And really it was a personal retreat. I really feel like I actually like it was a big growth moment for me. But that being said, I ended up making amazing connections with women who would then trust me to build their brands after. So full circle. Here we are. That's crazy. So what kind of conversations were you having that you were able to like launch the business? Did you just go in and you're like, YOLO, I'm going to put myself out there. Pretty much. And be like, yeah, this is what I do. Did you feel like I was so nervous? Imposter syndrome when you were like, this is what I do. I was, I felt like the biggest fraud. Honestly, on the plane, I was having a meltdown because I was like, there's no way that anyone's going to hire me. I've only designed my own website. That's like the only thing I was like, I only made myself fit. Why would you hire me to make you fit to make it make sense? But it didn't really make sense. Yeah. And but I went with it and I just I actually promised myself that I was going to go up to as many people as I could and introduce myself and tell people what I did. And I just think that everyone in that room is in a really similar place. I think, again, like that time period, all the women, no matter what they were building, were in a very like vulnerable place and also looking for help and support. And they just created such an amazing container. And so it just blossomed from there. And the kicker is I honestly ended up like over time. It wasn't right away. I ended up working with 12 women from that event, which is insane ROI. No, this makes so much sense. And for anybody listening who hasn't invested in rooms like this, here's the thing. One of the main reasons I also wanted to invest in you and why I know those women did without even asking them is because you understood their world. And so I have hired other web designers who have not understood the world that I come from. And so the layout doesn't feel right. The wording doesn't feel right. They don't really get it. It takes a it takes a lot longer and a lot bigger lift to really describe what it is that you do. And so I tend to always work with people who understand this world and understand what I'm doing. And it makes everything go so much faster. And even the belief in the product that you're both working together on feel the project feels so different when people are like, I see you, I believe in you. This is great. Let's do it. So that's like a hot tip from this is get in the rooms where your clients are 100 percent. And honestly, that's been my strategy for my business. It's been referral based almost since day one. I've probably done like a round of ads once in my business life. And I still just go back to referrals always like I'm always going to events that you're at and rooms that I know are going to up level my mindset and and just push me as as a founder, as a creative and and whatnot. So I think it's it's literally the smartest thing you can either when you look at the grand scheme of marketing, you're always going to have to invest in marketing. No, marketing can look different. Marketing for you looks like instead of ads, you're buying a ticket to an event where it might look like it's for you or for yourself personally. But it's also business. And when you talk to these women, you genuine genuinely are like, here's what I do. And then it's natural for them to be like, I need that. It's such a hack. I think of this all the time when people are in our memberships and I'm like, oh, this social media strategist is fucking crushing it in here because all of these people need her. Like it's the smartest, smartest way to get in there. Let them get to know you and let them know that you understand them and you know their struggles. And I think that's where the instant like click happens for you whenever you're in those rooms. As you like understand the struggles that they're in, it really does. And honestly, for me, it starts with immersing myself in people's brands. So I think that, you know, in general, for any projects that we do, it is really important for me to kind of actually go to events, get into their content, really put myself into what they're creating. So that way we're making sure everything's in alignment. And so I just think like it kind of all starts even like with myself and how I step into different rooms and put myself out there. I love it. It's so smart. OK, so you and I have worked together on multiple rebrands. Is this normal for growing businesses or are people just like, OK, you should have invested your one and done. Like, what does that look like? Typically, totally normal. I think that honestly, most people don't realize how much your brand evolves. It actually evolves even faster than we can keep up because we're changing and evolving so much. The world is changing and evolving. And then like the things that we're, you know, offering are changing pretty often. And so all of that is extremely normal. And I always say like your brand is an evolution. It's you're actually supposed to start building not where you are today, but where you're actually headed. So I love leaning into that because it feels really aligned to help people actually focus in on the fact that the brand we're creating right now. It's not like this forever thing that you put in a box and you look back and you're like, my brand, it's perfect. It's going to stay just like this. So brand evolution is just kind of the biggest piece of that. And once you go into it and you know that, you're able to just kind of evolve at a quicker pace. Okay. So this is such like we're going to unload this topic because some people don't know when to really deeply invest in their brand, when to deeply invest in a rebrand. And also I do believe you change so much so fast, especially if you're really on this trajectory of personal growth. And there is kind of this idea now that especially if people are looking to you for a leader to be a teacher, that they want to see the brand that they want in their lives. So it's like, if your brand does not look good to them, they're probably going to go with someone whose brand looks better. If that's important to them, if that's important to them, and I think it's becoming more and more important to people. And unfortunately, even if your content is better, even if your teachings are better, if your brand does not look good, I will tend to skip over it. Like sometimes even if I get a, not sometimes, all the time, if I get a pitch that just looks outdated and doesn't look like they put work into it, like I'm skipping over it so fast. Because in the sea of hundreds and hundreds of people that I look at, you have to catch attention because we're in such an attention war. You have to catch attention immediately. And I do think that that is branding. And I don't think this is a giant, giant investment for everyone. So let's talk about that. Like levels of branding. Where can we start if we just want to start having some cohesive branding? And we're at the very beginning. Okay. So if you're at the very beginning, brand clarity and brand alignment is everything because you really can't create anything unless you know what you're creating and who you're creating it for. And I think, you know, a lot of the times we get caught up in the, I want my brand to look and feel like this. And it's like, well, why? And if you can't answer why, then you have more work to do. And I think if you dive right into, you know, just branding, like doing your logo colors and fonts, that is the place to start, but you have to do the clarity piece first or else you will have to go redo that again. And everyone knows that because like every season entrepreneur knows that because mostly it happens to everybody because you're all excited and you're like, I'm going to go create the most amazing brand ever. You set out to do it and you're like, this is not it. This is not aligned with my core values. It's not speaking to my ideal audience. This is not the right messaging. And then, you know, you kind of have to take a step backwards. So if you're just getting started, I always say, like, you know, start with brand alignment. I have an amazing brand alignment quiz that you can take a few things you can do if you're just like listening to this and like, where should I start? Ask yourself how you want people to feel when they interact with your brand. It's such an amazing question because if you can answer that, you can start to understand like, what are the things that I need to create to help somebody feel that? Okay. So I love this. So number one, we're going to send everyone to the quiz, which is in the show notes. You can go and check that out. You'll see where it says the quiz below, but you just mentioned a couple of things that they can do to start even asking those clarity questions. What are some other questions that you think they should be asking themselves, even around clarity at all around like their social content that they're putting out, like who they are in the world? Like what are some things that you would tell someone when they're getting started outside of those that you just mentioned. So you could do things like figure out what type of aesthetic you like. So is it, you know, powerful? Is it soft? Is it empowering? Is it, you know, you want us to feel like I'm your best friend? If you can kind of lean into some of that, that's a great place to start. And then also creating a cohesive aesthetic that people can start to recognize or connect with you on. So that could be like finding colors or social media templates that help like really start to communicate just a little bit of what your brand could or couldn't be. And I feel like this is confusing for people because it's already like social media is hard enough. But does this look like, I know, creating some things in Canva? Like how can we do a basic something for ourselves where we can start to look quote unquote, like cohesive on social? So Canva has now with with AI and how everything is, you can literally go to Canva and create any amazing looking template. You don't need something incredibly custom from that perspective if you're just getting started, because to be honest, your goal getting started is just to start connecting to your ideal audience and really start to work on your positioning and messaging. And yes, your aesthetic is important, but it's actually not as important as the other parts, because the truth is, like, yes, you can have the most beautiful brand, but if it's not saying the right things or speaking to the right people, then it's not really going to go anywhere. So it is like a little bit of a dance. So I think like figuring out your strategy and your messaging and making sure that all that's in alignment before you actually create, that's going to be awesome. And then, you know, you can look on Etsy and other other creative creative marketplace and other things. They have amazing templates type faces, what not? Yeah, that's so good. And honestly, I hope you guys all listening through this whole conversation know, this is such a dance. You never feel like it's nailed because as soon as your stuff is done, you've already grown into somebody else. So I think that there is some wiggle room where you're going to feel 75 to 85% in alignment, and that's going to feel good. I feel like that's really the sweet spot. And then you're always going to have content that you're like interested in putting out right away or something you don't want to wait to brand. Or if you're a fast start like me or most creatives are like they want to fast start, they want to put stuff out. I think you have to decide how much of that percentage of like flawlessness you want to create. Some people can be 100%. I will never hit that and I'm okay with it. Like I've decided that that 75% cohesiveness is enough because I just have this fast start and me that wants to put out a thought. I don't want to wait for my team to help me with the branding or I don't want to sit and go into Canva and do it. But I do try to stick to that like 75 to 85% rule, but I'm always figuring it out. And I'm always getting people like you to help me stay on track because it very much will go off track. Like as much as I'm an aesthetic girly, I really struggle with how to make it look that way in my brand. Like I will deck you out all day long in your clothing, but like in my brand, I really struggle. So that's why I'm so grateful for people like you who are like, are we, can we just come back to what we're trying to do here? Yeah. And I'll sit on brand. I'll say that like everyone struggles with this at any level. Like whether you're a celebrity or you're a, you know, just starting out, how you want your brand to be perceived is incredibly vulnerable. It's also really something that like I said, keeps evolving. So, you know, you have to really decide and I can't answer that and no one really can answer it. Like how worth it is for you to invest that time because the truth is some of it, some of it doesn't pay off. Yep. I decided a long time ago, like social media matters for my brand. Like I use it as a visibility tool. It's great. Like I need to show that I'm active, open for business that we're doing work, but like to show up there every day does nothing for my brand. It really doesn't. Like I am not making sales every day on there. So it's just a waste of time. I much rather spend my time like building relationships, focusing on like what happens after they go to, you know, from social to your website, which is a huge thing that a lot of people forget about. And so, you know, it's, it's, it is a dance. I think it's figuring out because listening to you, I'm like, you don't even, you probably do realize, but I don't think you realize how much relationships, you're better at relationships than social. So you have to decide. Yes. Like this is where I'm going to invest my energy because someone could be in the same field as you, but not great at relationships. So they do need more time on your social for sure. Because it's like, where are you good at attracting the dollars? Yeah. Where are you good at that? And I think that's important for the listener to ask right now is like, for you, you've realized you actually don't have to spend a ton of time on social because you invest so heavily into groups and getting into all of these different events and getting into different relationships with people and really nurturing those. So, you know, for me, same thing, like there's places I do so much better at, like I have a podcast. So for years, I didn't have to show up as big on social, but podcasts are really tough at being discoverable. They're tough. So I've got a great audience there, but growing it has been a challenge. So now I have to start getting good at social where years past, I could kind of be a hodgepodge of a shit show. And now I feel like I have to step up my game and it has been changing. Yeah. It has been attracting a lot more people. So it's just interesting. It will, again, this whole conversation is going to be a dance. So ask yourself these questions as we talk about them with you. So, okay, let's talk about how a founder, a business person, a business knows that it's time to rebrand versus wanting something shiny and new. Yeah. I absolutely love this one because I feel like the truth is there, it's almost a trap. A lot of the times. And I'm, I'm sure you could speak to it, but it's a trap because we think a lot of the times the solution to our problems is to rebrand. Like, oh, I'm not getting sales. I should rebrand. Oh, I mean, this is not aligning. I should rebrand. So I like to break it down because I think that there's true signs that really means you should rebrand. So number one, if your photos don't represent who you are anymore, then you should definitely do a new photo shoot and you might need to rebrand because if someone goes to your website or social and like all the photos are unaligned, that creates doubt and mistrust. And, uh, and also it affects your own confidence. So that's number one. Number two, I would say is if your messaging has changed and you like offering something new and it doesn't show up like in your social media, on your website, that's a really big reason to kind of go into brand alignment and start to rebrand because obviously if no one knows about the thing that you're creating or working on, then how could they hire you? And so we need to make sure that that's showing up all over your brand. The third one would be to make sure that whatever you're creating is really in alignment with who you are now. So we're, we talked a lot about evolution. And if your brand has evolved to the point where you're like, I'm a totally different person, then you should most likely look into rebranding. Oh my God. Okay. So I love this topic so much because I have been caught in the trap. I have been in a place where it's really helped me. I've been in a place where it's been a shiny object and I've allowed it to distract me. So when we're talking about, you know, when do you rebrand? This is interesting because to me, if you're not making sales with your old brand, nothing about a new brand is going to help you make sales. Like you guys, I made the most money in my career when my stuff looked so not great. Like it was okay, but I had grown and evolved so much and hadn't given it much. I think it was one of your originals, but didn't give it much attention through the years. And then like, you know, we have Nick, who's like our most amazing integrator on our team, but he's not a designer. So you guys, what, what happens in teams is like, if I don't have a designer constantly updating my site and I have an integrator who's very like bare bones, like let's just get this up. It starts to look very hodgepodge. So I had a very hodgepodge site page, everything that was crushing it. Now, could it have crushed it more with a better, like even more cohesive branding? I absolutely believe yes. But what I want to get across is not to get caught up in thinking that you need this very shiny brand in order to make sales. So if someone comes to you and they're like, oh, nothing's working. Like I'm not making money. I know this might go back to the original question, but where should they be looking? Yeah, I mean, that, that's the biggest part. If you're not connecting with your audience, don't know who your ideal audience is, your positioning has changed or you're unclear about your messaging. I think that's a really big sign to just pause and not jump right into design and right into, let me fix this by creating a new website or creating a whole new social media. And I think, you know, I've had lots of clients who have gotten caught up in this before where they've come from multiple rebrands and some of it's like they're evolving and I'm like, okay, this is great. You're an evolution and you're, you're growing in a rapid rate. Like great. But other people, I'm realizing that it was that they were just like not obsessive, but it was like they were so hyper focused on making this brand like almost like in quotes perfect that they were losing sight of that this, this site is supposed to do something. It's supposed to connect with your audience. It's supposed to be a tool. It's not just a pretty, you know, store to go into. We want them to take action. So there's a whole other layer of things that you can analyze when you're, you know, figuring out if that's an issue. But I would say that's, that's really what I would tell people to focus on is like go back to clarity and strategy. Okay. All right. So if someone is listening that's thinking that's me, my brand is feeling off. Like it's feeling behind. It's not feeling great. What should they do first? So I feel like I'm going to sound like a broken record, but you have to step into brand alignment. Um, because if you don't, again, you're going to be just creating and creating over and over again. And the truth is like the only way that we're going to get people to really connect with what we're doing emotionally. And like that is the key. Like our brands are meant to make people feel things. And on top of that, like I said, to make them take action. So if you're listening to this right now and you're like, Oh, my brand like really doesn't feel like me. I don't know what to do. I would say like, let's try to get you in alignment, like ask yourself the questions. How do you want people to feel and they interact with your brand? What is off? It could be messaging or positioning that could be off as well, which is super important. It's just as important as visuals. And I think those are really good places to start. So when we go through your quiz, but I also know that you have like an entire brand alignment deep dive, but I want to talk a bit about because I think some people don't even know when they're like, okay, my messaging's off. How do I even start to figure out what my messaging is? And I know for me in the beginning, because I'm so multifaceted and I'll never change, like remember, do you remember back in the day, it was like, niche, niche, niche. I've never felt more like, oh my God, I'm never going to be successful because I could not niche down to save my life. I'm like, no, I'm fitness and I'm a podcaster and I want to write the books and I want to do the events and I want to do the courses. And they're like, but what exactly are you niching in? And so that was a huge challenge for me. And I feel like now I am a lot more clear on what I am, but I still feel like I'm evolving in that area. But walk me through a bit of what does that start to look like when you work with somebody who's just unclear about their messaging or wants to tighten it back up? Yeah, it's a great question. So I have something called the brand alignment method, which is really like we start with clarity and we go deep into the questions that are going to help us get clear on how to align your brand. And so some core things that we do is we take a look at where your brand is now and we're trying to fill this, I call it like the gap, the gap between where you are now to where you want to be. And the issue is when you're in that gap, you start to create almost like this mistrust, this like the credibility starts to kind of like drip out because I think underlying you're not really feeling confident in your brand. So, you know, quick story, like I have a client that came to me and she was at an event and she was sitting next to like one of her top mentors and they were like, I really love what you do. But I looked at your website and it really did not like actually seem to match the depth of your work. And she was mortified and she told me this story and she came to me and she was like, I need to fix this. Like I've been feeling it internally and just like thinking that if I hire another designer, like I could just fix this, do a little refresh and it would, it would work. But the truth is she was just completely out of alignment. She wasn't operating at the level that she was actually operating at. And meaning like her brand was behind where she actually like is delivering the depth of her work. And so I think like really what we do is we go into that, like when we start to analyze it from the perspective of like which messaging is off, which visuals are off, like which parts of your brand aren't telling the right story. And then we start to close that gap. So we start to figure out like if it's your messaging, okay, like what is the messaging that your user or your agile client needs? And what are the photos that help tell the story? And what are the, you know, what are the things that support that? And that's kind of why I created the brand alignment quiz, the brand alignment intensive and my entire method because I started realizing so many people are just jumping into creating these brands and they don't have all those pieces. And without all the pieces, you're kind of like missing, you know, you're missing the legs that you stand on. Yeah. When we were doing my latest site, every single page that was being built, I was like, we were asking the question, how is this going to convert? Like what, what is this message saying? And where are they going? Like, yes. What is the goal of this message? Is it just to be, you know, like in the past, it was like cute and clever and sound original and, you know, have all these great taglines. And now that's great. But where are they heading? Like, how can you help them? Is this speaking to them? Is this like, oh my God, that is me. And where do I go now? Like, how do I work with this person? What do I do? What podcasts do I listen to? So every page is like, okay, what's the journey? What is the journey that we're about to take this person on? And I think that that's a totally different. Like a way to go into your brand thinking about your customer rather than thinking about how good you look. Yeah. And I think it's, it's a huge mess by like many agencies in itself because they're very focused and I'm like, let me make this beautiful. Let me make this the brand that you want visually. But we need to focus on user experience without user experience. You basically have just a static, beautiful site. Yeah. And that is something that we do in the brand alignment sessions. We go kind of like, if you have a website or you, you know, you have even your social media, like we'll actually audit it and look at like where there could be disconnects in your messaging, in how the user is like going through your website. It's actually one of my most favorite things to do because you just don't know what you don't know. And most of the time we're just not looking at our brands with those eyes because we're all in, you know, we're all in like, I don't like this picture. You know, I don't like the way this copy sounds. And like, you know, there's people get stuck on both of those things. And then no one's thinking about what actions do we want people to take when they land on your website or when they go to your social media. So I want to talk a little bit about the ways to work with you because one of my like both times that I've worked with you have been my favorite experience of working with someone because it's been very collaborative. Now, collaborative in a sense where I didn't feel like it was a giant lift for me, but I wanted to be obviously a part of it because I want my voice involved. I want to like definitely feel like we're headed in the right direction. And that's what I've really loved about working with you is the exploration of being able to figure out what I want this to look like and how I want this to feel and how I want the customer to feel. So the very consistent touch bases, getting to see updates of what we've  and that you work with people. Yeah, so there's basically two ways to work with me. It's either transformational projects, which is like visual identity, website design, even like launch graphics, sales pages, all those pieces. I call them like, they're not one-offs. I'd love to continue working with the founders, but really that's the one. And then the other one is creative partnerships. So that's really for growing and scaling founders and for people that are looking for me to be their true creative partner. I am being their creative partner on the one-off projects as well, but this is just done in a different format because a lot of the people in this package is really like they have multiple brands and businesses. They're trying to create alignment across the board, which is very challenging when you're in your own business, as you know. So one of the things that we really like to do is actually look at it from a high-level perspective and start to ask the questions of like, okay, what are the strong parts of each brand and how do we connect them? And then what does the user need to kind of know that this brand does this, but they're still connected. And so having my expertise and my overseeing that entire process really helps you be able to stay in the zone that you need to stay in when it comes to being a founder. And I think a lot of the times, depending on your roles and the different types of teams people have, there's a lot of founders that get like very wrapped up in their creative and like they don't, they're doing more than they need to. And so part of the process that I love to do is actually being connected directly to the founder. I mean, I'm happy to work with their teams, but I found it to be so much more successful because I can actually say like, does this feel an alignment for you? Like is this doing the things that you want people to do when they're on your website? Like what's missing here? And to be able to work with you and collaborate with you on that, I could create a site on my own without you, but I'll never have those pieces of the information. Like I can gather it, but there's something different of like us both looking at it. And you know, like when we're in that process, we come up with things that I don't think we could either come up with like on our own. Right? Totally no. And that's why I'm the biggest believer. Something magical happens in collaboration. And so what you did with my recent like rebrand website, all the things is we had a lot of moving parts in what we were doing. We had the elite entrepreneur mastermind that I joined with Chris now this last year. So what happened is my Lori Harder branding or what we were creating, whenever I would post about elite mastermind, elite entrepreneur, it felt like it clashed. And like that's like very much like Chris's branding. And then also now that we have mentor collective mastermind, we were like, we need branding that feels cohesive for both brands. And so what was so fun was trying to find this through line and you showing me the three brands together once we kind of landed on something and how they all looked like sisters, like not twins. So like your eyebrows guys, like literally that was one of the coolest things to go. Oh, I finally feel like all of these things that we have going on are a lot more cohesive, which feels really good when you're talking about it and sending it out through email, which feels good when I'm putting it out on my social media. It just feels better when I know people are landing on those pages and it's not like, oh, Lori's advertising this, but all of a sudden I land on something that's so masculine because it's very Chris, you know, or it's just thrown together like a, it's just a quick sales page, but done without much branding because we aren't working with a designer, but we are working with a great sales copy person, which like I said, still can make money, but feeling a little off, feeling a little off, especially when you have people coming in who this is important to, they're like, wait, like, yeah, I love the message and I love what they're teaching, but why does this feel off if they're teaching this? So yeah, and we kind of talked about this because it's like the builder's home. You know, I grew up with, literally my dad was in construction and builder kitchens and bathrooms and our home was always the one that was neglected. I get it, that does happen absolutely because you're always in the business, but I do think it's important to find somebody to help you clean that all up. Yeah, and I mean, it goes back to what I said before, like matching the depth of your work. And so it's like, if you're asking people to invest at high levels and you have premium packages, it's like, you don't want them to feel like they're walking into Walmart. You know, you want them to feel like they're walking into, you know, a very high level experience. And so branding does feel that way and people that pay attention to it or care about it, like that could turn them off and they can say no. You know, so is it a maker break? It could be if you care about it. So if you start to feel like, just like you were explaining before, like, I don't know, like this feels off for me that this post looks bad and I don't like it or I don't want to share this sales page as much. Like that drips into the energy that you're putting out there in some capacity. And, you know, we're never going to get it perfect. And also like, I get like, people have to output, you know, at a quick pace, like you can't make everything perfectly designed. You know, you just can't. And it's okay. It doesn't like, if you don't do it, it doesn't mean like your brand goes downhill. It's just as long as those things are in alignment and you can keep those four brands, like you have the core base now, you can literally create anything from there and it will still feel more cohesive than it did before because there was no through line. Okay, so when I was creating like this next evolution and for anybody listening who's like, okay, you said I want to create the brand for like where I'm going. There were some interesting things that came up because, you know, I take all of these like brands that I aspire to be like, and some of them are curated so perfectly, but there was a bit of like this realization and this is permission for anybody that I'm not going to be curated every day. So I was like, okay, Lori, I know that you want this super aspirational, up a level brand, which I believe that I still accomplished, but I wanted to add in pieces of my personality that I knew like at the end of the day, I'm going to be mixing stuff into social that's very casual. Like sometimes I'm going to go on without makeup on, I'm going to try to keep the branding, but like is this going to be so abrupt for how I know I create? And I think that it is important to ask yourself, yes, you might want that very aspirational brand, but how are you creating every day? Are you going to be able to keep up with that? Or can you create a brand that's aspirational that also works in your personality? So taking so much of that into account. Are there things that you always like to take into account when people are thinking of what they want to do? Because I think it's very easy, Rachel, I know you see this. People come to you with, I want this brand. Like I want my brand to look exactly like this. How do you make brands their own or kind of stand out apart from all of the cookie cutters that are out there? It's interesting because I feel like no matter what, even when someone comes to me is like, I want a brand. I can't even tell you how many people have said to me, even in this past like few months, like I want a brand like Lori's. And I'm like, cool, we can do that for you. We'll take it, we do great. We're gonna do that for you, but we're gonna make it you. And I think like the truth is like, I'm not doing cookie cutter designs, like so they're never gonna get like your brand, but they're gonna get the same feeling. And that's really what they're connecting to. They're connecting to the feeling of your brand and they're wanting that. And so I help them understand that and I help them see that, these are the things that you have to do to have this type of brand. And it's like the photos and it's spending the time on how to align your messaging and what goes into it. But I think going back to what you said before about like adding in your personality and really, I think the way like marketing is going these days is people want to see the the realness. They don't wanna just see the pretty picture because guess what? That's out there nonstop now. And I think people need reality checks that like we're all human, we're all going through the struggles. And I mentioned this to you before, but like even me, I just redid my own website before I came on this podcast because I knew that I was going to be having some people come to it. And also I was feeling out of alignment. And I was like, I need to get myself together. And also it makes me feel better. And I think like that is what I kind of keep trying to get across here. It's like the brand alignment is for other people, but it's really for you. It's for the business owner. It's for the person who just wants to be proud of the brand that they have and have something that they can stand behind and feel confident. And I knew that if I didn't do that, and I like just kept my website the way that it was, I was gonna come on this and feel like, like I'm missing that piece. And like now that I have it, like I feel so confident. I know that like everyone that is gonna go to the website will be able to know like it's an alignment for me. Oh my God, I can't tell you before this last rebrand because life just gets so busy for us. And Chris and I love to overwhelm ourselves. It's just both of our personality traits. And the last thing for me a lot of times is my, like how my brand looks. Cause I'm just like, okay, I'm consistent with content. I'm consistent on the podcast. Like one thing I am is consistent, but my brand may not look consistent. So that has been an Achilles' heel for both Chris and I, our entire careers. And I think now that we are just in a place where we have some really, really high priced aspirational products and experiences that we do. And also just for how we feel and where we are in life and where we're going in life. And I, our brand's like, especially mine cause he had kind of redone his a little bit before I did. Mine just felt so out of, it just, I couldn't even relate to it. Like I'd go on my site and be like, I don't even say that anymore. Like I don't even wear those boho hats anymore. Like who is this girl in these gypsy outfits? Like I legitimately, like could not even recognize myself. And I love that version of me, but that version of me is so far from what I felt. So I was finding myself sending people more to my Instagram than to my site. And the thing is I'm, I'm booking myself on stages. I'm booking myself on shows and people were going to my site and regurgitating things that were from my site. You don't realize how many people actually do go to your site. If you're getting book done stages and shows and they're going to read your bot year, they're going to read your old stuff from your site. They're going to say it and ask you questions based off of it on the podcast. They're going to pull pictures from your site that you're like, why does everything feel so off? And that's what kept happening. I was like, that's it. And everyone kind of has a breaking point with that. Like, and I'll say, like, if you're listening to this, like you might not resonate with that. Like it might, it might not feel the same for you because I think everyone will have their different breaking point, you know, whether it's the confidence thing or it's like the unaligned images or, you know, like for me, it was like, I really like could not deal with the fact that like my packages weren't in alignment. Like I was so stressed about that. Yeah. You know, like, and it just depends because everyone's kind of different of what matters to them and what they care about. But like in the grand scheme, I think that's like one of the messages that I love to get across is like, everyone is going through this on their own level. And so you just have to keep making micro changes towards the alignment that you're trying to create in your brand. So you can keep having the connection with your audience and feeling good about it energetically. It really is for you because when I did this last one, I feel totally different. I'm like, oh my God, my shit's like taking care of, it's tight, it's good. I can send people there. I can know that I'm getting searched and it's like great when people are going to have me as a guest or whatever. Tell me about some of your other, I know you've got so many great like client stories. And one of them is one of my very good friends. So we're not going to say your name, but if you could share some of that story. Yeah. So again, people come to me at all different like stages and places. So this woman came and she had said that everybody knows me as so-and-so's girlfriend. And she said like, it's great, but I'm obviously my own person. I want to be a badass speaker. And I really want people, I really want a brand behind me that feels like me and is me. And so that was her main reason for creating a brand. Like she didn't really even need it. And I know that like from a sales perspective, she could have done all the things she needed to do, but having that peace, having that confidence behind her was everything she needed to step into it. And I think that's so important to recognize. Like if you're listening and that's you and you're like, you're kind of like playing small behind the scenes because you are feeling like your brand doesn't represent you and it's crippling you. Like you should do something about it because there's so many options out there right now, like to actually create a brand. And I think like, you know, depending on whatever level you're at, just make the change. Cause like hiding and dealing with that and feeling all those things for like, people can keep it going for a long time. So, you know, there's your gentle push to take action and start to build a brand that really is connected to you. It really does feel like so freeing. And so clarity is everything for momentum. When you're not clear, it's really hard to catch momentum because you don't know what you're doing every day. You don't have like a strategy or a clear thing that's pulling you forward. And I think that was another thing that I loved about going through this process is really realizing what is center stage for us. Like, okay, you have all of these things. Cause I know there's so many people on here now. You really do, even if you're not, even if you do niche down, you're niching down, but you have social, you have email, you have, you know, text marketing, you have all these different places. And I think one of the great things was being like, what is most important? Like what do you want to push the most? What's center stage? Like what do we want when you land on the website or when you're on your social, which I'm still really working on. Like I couldn't tell you on my social right now, like what most important thing is, then we're working on it. But it's that like constant question of, okay, well what's center stage now? Like what's most important? And I think that's really been helpful. Definitely. I'm kind of, I know this is like controversial, but like I'm not a niche down gal. I think it's cause I'm a creative. Like you can't tell me like I'm gonna do the same thing for the rest of my life or I'll like run out the door. Same. So something about niching down just like doesn't sit well with me because I just feel like, I just feel like I can't commit to that. So I never really pushed that for other people. I do obviously from a marketing perspective, understand the value of niching down. I know another woman who has a very similar business to me and she only does fitness. It's basically like fitness professionals and that has done so well for her business. Like she mastered it, she got really niched into it and so I could see the benefit. But for someone like you and a lot of my other clients who are visionary founders who are gonna keep evolving and changing, I think niching down can honestly hold you back sometimes because you could be doing all the things that you're doing and not be exploring what your next thing could be. And so I just, I'm not a big fan of like forcing people to do niching down and it's hard. I think that's why I love, I love kind of the assessment is because it is, okay, here's all the things but what's most important? Like what is the main thing? So where do you see people really going wrong? Like when they are rebranding or anything with their brands that you think is costing them a lot of money? Yeah, and I mean, I was gonna say that a lot of these things do cost people money and that's the thing when you're not clear and you dive right into design, that's to me is always the biggest mistake because we're excited, we wanna create something and I mean, I've had people invest a lot of money with me on websites before and I've had to ask them, like are you sure this is like the right move for you? Because I feel like sometimes it seems like it is, it seems like I really want this piece but I feel like a lot of the times they need to work more on strategy and clarity and answer those questions that we were just talking about because if you don't know what's most important to you, the brand that you're gonna build is also not gonna show what's most important to you. And it's hard on my end because I really need those pieces aligned in order to really create an amazing brand. Now I wanna talk about something for you personally that I even just in your evolution, my evolution as wanting to show up as a good client and also you wanting to find good clients because I know you and I have known each other for so many years and we've had these conversations about like, oh my God, this is not the person I wanna work with, this is the type of person I wanna work with. You've gotten really clear that you want someone who wants to be really clear and I know throughout your process, we had some pretty good deadlines, like yes, maybe some wiggle room but in a project like yours, you have to stay on track and you have to stay on target and I think when you're working with a lot of creatives and founders, sometimes they can just keep pushing things off, they can get very confused, they can be all muddied. How do you decide who that person is that you wanna work with and how do you keep creatives on track when you're on these projects? Is it contracts, is it, what does that look like? Because I actually think that that is such a favor to the creative because I think we can bulldoze through people and then you don't get the project you want, you feel like you end up blaming the other person. Tell me a little bit about how you keep everything on track. Yeah, I mean, I will say it's been a journey. I have underpriced, I went totally over scope, it's not a science because honestly, each person is different so that is something that I've had to really learn, like each project that I work with, although there's similarities, there's different things that people bring like via their brand or even their emotional side so a lot of what I do is also helping keep people feeling good because it's a vulnerable experience. Like when people are spending lots of money, they're putting themselves out there, a lot of the times they need handholding, they need validation, they need approval. And so the way that we kind of keep it all on track is by just having an agreement, figuring out what they need. So for example, with you, I know that you're very much like, you love to talk about it, you love to see it type of person and so like I would never just like send you a page and be like, hey, what do you think? I could do that, but I know that if I hopped on a call with you, I'd get a much clearer, better response and we'd be able to like not waste all this time trying to figure out like what are the changes or what do you need? So I like to meet my clients, like where they're at and what they need so we can keep that process like aligned and also feeling good for everyone involved. And I'll say like, I have another client, like she spirals a lot like in decision-making and so right now, like I'm honestly struggling figuring out like, all right, what does she need in order to make the decision and move forward? So depending on the client, I like to check in on what they need. So for example, the client I'm working with right now, she's like, I need specific things that you need for me. I also want heads up on like what we're gonna talk about on each call, which was a little something new for me. But again, I was like, this is what she needs in order to move forward. And so that is, you know, a lot of the times I'm adjusting basing on the type of client that I have. And I think that's really like the high level touch that you get when you're doing collaboration. I don't have like this like cookie cutter process. I mean, I do from the perspective of what I'm doing. You're working with creatives. Yeah, creatives with a creative brain. Visionaries, yeah, exactly. Visionary, you're working with visionary, creative brain for sure. Have you ever had to break up with a client? I have, I have, I had to break up with a few clients. And honestly, some of it was after the fact. Sometimes, you know, like you just feel like whether you don't align with the person's team or, you know, it just isn't feeling energetically right. It hasn't been a lot, but there's times where I'm just like, this is just not right for me. And especially now, I'm really at a place in my business where I only wanna be in alignment. And you know, it takes a lot of energy to do all this work. So you have to be really in collaboration. And one thing that someone said to me recently is like, you have to really love not just what you do, but like who you do it with. And I was like, that's so good because I think I love what I do. And then sometimes if I get into partnership with someone who I don't love doing it with, I'm like not as happy. Oh my God, I feel that way all the time. Even team members, you know, you have to really check who you're working with and does a team member throw off the energy. So, you know, you work with a lot of different team. What's your process for through the years finding people you really love to work with as well? Yeah, and that's been a, it's been a big journey for me. I think that finding people that really understand the process, I made a lot of mistakes in the beginning, like hiring people who didn't actually work on agencies or like didn't work with agencies. And I found that it was really difficult because I had to like explain everything. Oh yeah. You know, and I was like, why did I, that was so silly. Like why not just work with people who have already worked with agencies? Like in work that I do. So now I have an amazing team that I just love. They're actually international. So I have like a designer in Portugal who I love. And, you know, honestly, we don't do a lot of calls. We do a lot of work via Slack and just talking and doing looms. And that works really well for my creative team. So it's been not as hands on and I think that works. So yeah, I think there's just so many new ways that we can work with people, especially if they are international, like looms, you can watch at any time, less meetings, just record whenever you need to. That's been really powerful for us with Glossy as well, with just a different, you know, cause we have team all over the place. And it is really crazy what you can get done now via not having to sit on meetings and all of the things. So, okay, so what are some messages that you want to leave with our listeners? I want to leave people with this message of if you have a brand and you're feeling misaligned to really ask yourself like what you're leaving on the table if you stay, if you stay there. And what is it costing you? And I like to say that not to be like, you know, like you should do something about it. But I feel like even, you know, I would wish that somebody would say that to me because there's really nothing more important than your brand these days with AI and everything going on in the world. People are dying to connect with you. Like they're looking for your programs, they're looking for your solutions. And so I just say like you have to do it and put yourself out there. I love that message. I think it's just huge. Like putting yourself out there, your brand and how you show up is a really, you know, one of my messages right now is being audacious and having audacity to show up boldly. And I really feel like you can do that through your brand. And especially if you're doing, like, doing what you talk about all the time and creating a brand for where you're going, nothing makes you up level faster than looking at what you have out there and going, that's who I am. That finally feels like in alignment with who I am and who I'm becoming. And it does make you show up more that way. Like in my life, I'm dressing up all the time now because I did a brand photo shoot that is now, you know, I started using that's all over. And I'm like, I wanna be that in my daily life. So how do I up level myself to match that? Because that's what I wanted. So I do think it's like a beautiful benchmark to create from and go once, once you guys see it, you'll understand. Once it's put all together and you're like, oh my God, for the first time in my life, I see myself visually in the brand as I feel how, you know, this next level feels for me. That's so huge. And I think that's a huge part of branding in itself is that a lot of the times people, I don't love the phrase like fake it till you make it, but with your brand, a lot of the times we're positioning you as someone that, you're not exactly there yet. And that's okay. And I think not only is it okay, it's actually like not a vision board, but it's like the vision that you're trying to step into. It's like you're stepping into this new person. You're, you know, whether it's your outfits, your brand, you know, how you wanna be perceived, like that's all part of your brand. And so I think that if we can all like lean a little bit into like who do you want to be next? Or where does your brand, like where is your brand going next? And like really like leaning and grounding into that. I think it will reveal lots of amazing things when you ask yourself that. I just wanna add one more thing because I love that so much. This is so important for you guys to really get. Like I'm doing a glossy shoot on Friday. And when we were looking at, you know, locations, models in talking about the shoot, we're like, okay, here's the budget of, you know, what we think we should be at, like what feels very like good and conservative. And the realization of if you're investing anyway for like a few thousand more dollars, you could look so much more up-leveled. If you're already investing the time, you're already investing the money. These shoots can be a year to two years. Like it's so important to think, like I'm not saying blow the budget, but look at where like when I look at other brands, I'm attracted to them because I'm like, oh my God, that look at this aesthetic, look at those outfits, look at that like the house that they're shooting in. It's a feeling and it gives people, people want to aspire to be that way. So they're going to reach for your product because it's a feeling that you're giving them. So when you're thinking about that, when you're creating, it's like, don't just rebrand because it's like, oh, maybe I should do this. Wait until you can actually make it a little bit more aspirational than maybe you, like or spend a little bit more or put a little more effort into it. It may not even be money that you're having to spend, but like make sure that you can put the effort in if you're going to do it anyway, because this is a big, it's a big effort, it's a big lift to rebrand. It really is, it's very time consuming. Make sure that you can give it some love because your outcome will be drastically different than if it's something that just feels rushed or that you're like, oh, I should do this. But I think it's worth the investment. I think it's going to change your life. I think it's going to change you. I think it's going to change your brand. So whenever you can do it, like plan ahead and really plan for what you want. Yeah, I cannot agree more. And honestly, like when it comes to investing in your brand, I do believe like it's always worth the investment. And it's also always worth like getting the clarity before you do that. Like I can't even with photo shoots specifically. There can be so many things that we miss when we do a photo shoot that we're not thinking of without like doing that clarity first and understanding like what are the parts. And so really diving into that is always going to give you better results. Yes, I love that. Okay, so send us to your brand quiz. Tell us one more time about your deep dive brand assessment that we can work with you on. Yeah, where can we go? So if you want to take the quiz, go to rachelpesto.com slash quiz. And if you want to learn more about the brand alignment intensives, those are 90 minute sessions. And you can get those on my website as well, rachelpesto.com slash brand dash alignment. And we're really going to just like audit your brand, see where you're misaligned and then we can dive in to get it aligned. Yeah, I love it. And thank you so much just for all that you've done through the years for us, for my brand, my website, you guys can go and check that out right now because that was all of her work on this most recent one and also with Mentor Collective Mastermind and just really getting all of those brands aligned and looking cohesive. I know that was a really big lift and I'm so grateful for you. And this was so much fun that you came all the way from Florida to California. And now we're going to go eat a delicious dinner at one of my favorite spots. And we're going to talk all about branding even more, I'm sure, and all the things and life and all the good stuff that we should probably continue recording at the dinner table. But I'm grateful for you. And thank you so much for being such a great partner through the years. And you've been a really awesome experience to work with. And what you said is so true. It's like you can love what you do but you have to love who you do it. So I've really like, I looked forward to every one of our appointments that we had when we worked together. So I'm grateful for you. Oh, thank you. And we can cry. Oh, good. That's the point. Thank you so much for having me. Oh, yes, absolutely. And you guys go check out the show notes. We...  you put everything down there, you can go and check her out. And until next time, earn it, you're happy. Bye, everyone.

=== FILE: Build Your List on Autopilot (It’s Easier Than You Think With THESE Automations) with Madi Beumee [5ItsApe2mTo].txt ===

 it is never too late to build an email list. Two years is gonna go by, and you're gonna wish that you started today. Just the fact that it is a communication channel that you actually own. You're not dealing with algorithms, or if people are taking an Instagram hiatus or anything like that, utilizing manychart is a great way to do so, because it just streamlines the process. It's a domino for everything you're doing. Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap I think so many of you have heard of many chat and if you have not, maybe you have just randomly heard of the word floating around. But I personally can't imagine life without it anymore. I mean, until something else comes along. So I'm very excited to chat with you today because you have helped us with all of our or our many chat strategies. And you are kind of the many chat girl. So we're going to dive in. But first of all, I would love to know if you could explain to everybody kind of what you do and what got you in so deeply into many chat. Yeah, so I am a social media strategist and content creator. I work with online businesses and entrepreneurs to ultimately help them turn their followers into customers through content and many chat. And I love that I have my hands in both of those because they really kind of have this dance with one another. I was literally talking about this with someone today. If your content is not good, it doesn't matter how great your many chat innovations are because no one's going through them. And vice versa, if you have amazing content and you're getting thousands and thousands of views, let's turn that into something that's actually profitable for your business or your brand. So I kind of fell into the world of many chat. My background, I worked behind the scenes at a pretty big online business. We sort of started implementing it. I think ironically I was not in the meeting. It was discussed in and saw it in like notes and I was like, what's that? I'm definitely someone where I'm down to experiment. Let's try new things. Opened the can of worms and saw how incredibly beneficial it is. Just time saving alone. Like you said, I can't imagine with someone who has a larger account trying to manually answer the same questions over and over and over again. Like that is such a time suck. So just the sheer amount of manual work that was taken off their plate with us implementing it. And then on the flip side, all the incredible business opportunities and advantages that come with adding it to your strategy. And so when I saw how big of an opportunity it can be for online businesses and also how there's not a ton of people operating in the space or education and information about it. I was like, well, I want to dig into this and I want to figure out how to make it more accessible, how to have more conversations about it and how to empower business owners to really utilize it and implement it into their strategy. Okay, I love it. For anybody listening who doesn't fully understand how it works or what it is, like I want the most basic year on Instagram. Here's what this looks like. And here's what you're getting yourself into. Yes. So this is how I explain it specifically to my parents. If you see the caption, right? I'm like, you guys will get this. If you see the caption and it says, comment word, whatever that word is, and I will send you something. And when you comment that word, it automatically DMs you. They are using chat marketing and I use them interchangeably, but many chat is basically like the biggest player in the space, an automation tool that they utilize to do that. So I always make the distinction that it's if it automatically happens because I have had business owners who didn't realize there was a tool to do it and they were manually DMing every single person that commented that word. So if it happens like literally instantaneously, they are using any chat. Okay, I love this and I have been an automated person. I mean, before many chat and it is like extremely time consuming. And I think you just you're missing so much of what many chat can do. So let's start there as well. So what people don't realize is yes, it's going to, you know, send you something. Let's talk about what that something could be. Let's use a few examples for people. Yeah. Then what we're going to do is I would love for you to kind of walk us through how in depth that can actually get because I want people to understand if they're not using this they're leaving so much money on the table. Absolutely. So a bare bones kind of entry into the world of many chat is going to be a replacement for sending someone to the link in your bio. So previously we would every single post was like check the link in my bio for whatever it is. And if you think about yourself as a consumer, I do not personally remember the last time I saw something went over to their profile clicked the link in bio and like actually went through with the action. So the success rate of that is basically non existent. So utilizing many chat eliminates all of those steps on the user end. So we can send them links to a tiny offer. We can send them links to your podcast episode. It's basically a really great way to eliminate the leg work on the user side and get them exactly what they're looking for. So bare bones. It's a really easy way to send people the links to what they're looking for and it can vary. You can use this with online businesses with digital products. A lot of creators are using it with shop my links or like to know it to monetize their content more easily. And then from there it only gets more and more advanced and exciting and that's where I always try to toe the line with those who are looking to add it to their strategy of you do not need to be operating in the same capacity as like a seven eight million dollar business is you can figure out what your strategy looks like for your own account in your own just team but we can utilize it for lead generation. So grabbing emails directly on Instagram. We can send individuals through quizzes and then populate the information we are receiving about then into your CRM platform or your email marketing platform. Yeah it's very much more than ever we have the option to be like what do we want to do or what information do we want to gather and let's do something to do that. I love it. So I'm just going to give some examples for people who follow me and listen to the podcast so they can know and they can kind of go learn as well by looking back through some of my content. I use it for what you said something as basic as shop my whenever people ask for links. Now I know if I'm about to post a photo where I went to a wedding or I'm super dressed up I'm like I know people are going to want this outfit. Let me upload it really quick or want to know details about it. And then I'm like and it's awesome because I can make some extra cash from it on shop my that's a really really easy app to use. So I literally use it for shop my so hey you know and on the bottom of the photo that I upload about the event or whatever it's like comment shop my if you want all the links to my outfits. Awesome. Sometimes I wake up and it's like hey you just made this money and you made that money and like this is so great. It's like the little little wins that you can stack and it was not hard at all. And then one of the main things that I'm using it for right now is obviously list building. So you guys it is never too late to build an email list if you feel like it's too late it's not too late and you should be doing it in the email list or a text list. And we do that through different opt-in so if you go to my page you'll see me say comment playbook if you want to learn about how my husband and I work together and we have you know had this great marriage for 20 years and all the different tools that we use to go on money dates and future planning and all of the things so there's one opt-in then we have other opt-ins for our mentor collective mastermind then we have opt-ins for our VIP weekend. So there's so many different things that we have going on that. People don't realize and you're not going to build this all at once this definitely took some time but I will say Maddie it's literally it's not as hard as people think especially if they get help on it. You can start building an email list and collecting emails because let's just also real quick talk about the importance of that. And having people on a list because I think people can forget I know so many people listening know it's very important but I think it's never been more important to make sure you're capturing people because the algorithm is consistently changing. So tell me a little bit about just your thoughts on on still creating email list text lists and why. Oh absolutely I think it's interesting as someone who spends a ton of time on tick tock specifically how everyone on tick tock was having that conversation that I think business owners are just a little bit more strategic about but. Oh my gosh this app is going to go away I have an audience of a million people how am I going to get in contact with those million people come tomorrow if this platform disappears so I think bare bones forget you know the conversion rates on email versus social media just the fact that it is a communication channel that you actually own you own the frequency in which you can get in front of people you're not dealing with algorithms or if people are taking an Instagram hiatus or anything like that like you own it. And down the line there's also leverage elements with it as well like you could get your email list acquired and those kinds of things but you definitely want to be moving your audience over to your email list and utilizing many chat is a great way to do so because it just streamlines the process we're able to essentially have a conversation right in Instagram DMs we grab their email and then on the back end all of that information is sent over to your email marketing platform of choice and kind of like you were saying like learning along the way I feel like as you're listening to this episode go over to Lori's Instagram and find play I think I know playbook is one of them but find one of those automations and send yourself through it so you can visually see. What that looks like and get that experience as a user. And I think one of the. We'll talk about this we're going to dive deeper to this you guys but one of the mistakes that I used to make was I'm like. I am a creative so I like to be in everything and I was like wouldn't it be fun to like have people opt in for this cocktail recipe that I made and then. And then you know you send an opt in for cocktail recipes or fun things in my life or just shot my links or whatever you're collecting data on people for for you know fun things that don't correlate with your offer. So then all of a sudden when you email them something about joining our mentor collective mastermind they're like what the hell is this I'm going to opt out or I'm irritated because all they wanted was you know a sourdough recipe or a cocktail recipe from me so that's really interesting we'll dive into like the do's and don'ts. Of different things so first of all let's start off with like a ton of business owners feel intimidated by the shift toward video content across platforms what practical advice do you have for those who are. Are camera shy they're not really loving making content but they know that they need to start really showing up because like you said. Content like you can have all the many chat strategies in the world but if your content is off or it's like not hitting it's not going to work so what do you say to those people who are like. Oh God I have to start showing up. Yeah I think first and foremost acknowledging that there is a level of discomfort. It feels weird if you are not someone who naturally enjoys it. Just kind of stating like this feels uncomfortable. Yeah. Knowing that okay let's set some systems in place and I think that one of the biggest sort of misconceptions people have is they view a lot of these front facing online businesses where it's maybe an individual or it's a couple as like. This couple does it all they come up with the concept they record it they edit it they whatever it is and more often than not there's a team behind the scenes orchestrating a lot of things so I think. Clue yourself into that is also helpful as you venture in because it's easy to compare your day one to their day. 600 with a team of three behind them that being said I do think a lot of those people who operate at that capacity have really great systems and that can look like scripting out your content. So if you have a couple of days with jump cuts and pacing there's no need and you really should not please ever post a video of you talking to camera straight through no cuts whatsoever and cuts allow us to I flubbed that word or you know I took a long time to get to the point let me retake that sentence and kind of cut together the best overall video. I think that's really important allowing yourself jump cuts real quick on that one. What's your favorite software for that. Well it used to be cap cut but we had some issues with like right them owning rights to your footage at the moment. So I like final cut on computer I have not ventured into Da Vinci a lot of people like Da Vinci and then the phone one that I have been using is VN. It is a little bit of a learning curve of once you've been utilizing something for so long kind of having to jump into something new. But those are all great. A lot of people also like captions. I think it's captions AI that's a good one or even Instagram released edits which is kind of like their competitor to cap cut. People are using. Okay. Yeah so don't be afraid to like chop things up. I always say like dead space is the opportunity for someone to scroll away. So even if it feels like it's clipping along that's not necessarily a bad thing. I even speed my nap like actually just go up like point one so it's faster. Oh I joke sometimes I'm like how fast can we turn it up before the chipmunk voice exactly because people are also going to watch it on 2X anyway. The that ties into the last tip that I always whenever I'm like coaching someone with talking head content we kind of do the whole filming process we finish it. And then I'm always like OK let's do it one more time a little bit faster with a little more energy because it's like you've got the main take out like you know a take exists that's good. Now let's just do it one more time. Loosen up a little bit have a little bit more energy and speed and normally that's the best one just because it kind of moves along a little bit quicker. I think one of the things in the beginning too because I'm really I'm actually working on talking head content right now and it's it's it's challenging it takes time to get good. And I think you have to give yourself grace because I think you're like oh this month I should have it nailed after trying it for a few weeks in a row. It does not feel that way at all. And kind of like you said I think it's like setting this expectation for me because in order to get a really good cut. It does take doing it like three to four times through the script. And so I script everything out I use teleprompter. In the more that you do it the more you do feel like you can add energy to it you could go off script a little bit if you start to actually know what the script is you can say it in a way that feels way more authentic to your tone and your voice is really tough. You're not just sitting there reading it. So I do think like understanding that the first three to six months of especially talking head is going to feel really rough like it's not going to be fun. It's like that I did my my filming days usually on like Mondays and Tuesdays and there's more resistance on Mondays and Tuesdays like it is like I'll have from like 12 to four and I'll like maybe start filming at three because I'm in pain and I'm like touching up the screen and like it's quite crazy watching myself struggle like you know you have those out of body experiences watching yourself struggle procrastinate resistance like how this feels to me so if anybody's listening I can't remember what they call it but there's something with quote unquote artists now that I'm calling myself an artist because I'm doing a talking head thing but anything creative like this. Okay we'll call ourselves that she shook her finger. So I have that with creators when people are like I'm not a creator and I'm like well if you create content like you're a creator so you're a artist. Okay we're creating guys so we're creators. But it is like you are facing off with yourself. So know that everything she is saying and that we're saying if you want to get good content it feels like a face off for sometimes a couple years and then guess what the algorithm changes and you're in another face off trying to figure it out all over again. So you know I think the reward is so big though the reward can be so big on social and I think that's what we're forgetting is the reward with many chat reward with showing up authentically like it's it's not only game changing it's like we'll change your bank account in your life so this stuff is so worth it so anything else on showing up authentically. I think the other thing is as you venture into it almost taking notes of like it is getting easier like I'd be interested in you saying like oh like I presented it's so tricky like I do think you have to have those moments where you're like oh wow a month ago or four months ago I had to script out and read every single line and now I can like glance and deliver something so noting your process and progress that you're making. When it comes to authenticity I think really trying to imagine the camera as an actual person you're talking to because we can get into that like now I'm on camera and I am becoming like a news reporter and or like using your phone voice yeah I'm I totally have a phone voice 100% but thinking about it as like your friend or someone who you know you're chatting with on the street because I think when you are consuming. You can feel that shift between someone who's like presenting at you and someone who's inviting you into their world and letting you get to know them because at the end of the day you're making this talking head content because you want to build that bond and you want them to like you and this world and ecosystem you're building so you want it to feel as close to who you actually are in your day to day life as well. Okay love this so any tips on actually creating like we're saying scripts right now and some people are like what the hell do you mean like where where would I even start so maybe choose a business and be some examples of what some short like talking head content could be or content for them. Yeah so let's pretend that for me I'm going to make a video on the three biggest mistakes I see business owners make when they're making many chat automations and so when I go to create content. I'm a big like the content calendar rules everything but with each piece of content that's going out I always write out at least one hook idea. Maybe two. So your hook is going to be that initial. Well I'm a firm believer in it. It's a three part hook we have what we're you know saying what they're hearing the audio hook we've got a visual text on screen hook so we're going to want that to be different than what we're saying because it gives us another opportunity to peak their interest. And then we also have the visual hook so video wise what's happening in the screen. And you can play it like video hook you can play around with a lot of different things you'll notice people will do movement they might wear a certain color. We love work creatures of habit if you think about it so sometimes it's someone has created a series. I really try to kind of get them to create in the same capacity every single time. So we get that recognition so maybe it's like I always have my purple polka dot wallpaper behind me and that almost becomes the visual recognition of like oh that's so and so there's the wallpaper that I recognize every single time. So that's the hook and you want to make sure you've got a really strong hook because it doesn't matter how great the rest of your video is if someone scrolls second one. So we want them to hear the hook and keep watching the video. So that's first and foremost probably the most important part to think about as you are crafting this script and kind of writing things out for yourself. From there it's kind of creators choice some people really like every single thing written out like they want a new sentence they want to know all the sentences and exactly like the points they're going to hit. Other people prefer like OK mistake one is this mistake to is this mistake three is this and I'm just sort of going to riff as I'm filming and cut it up in post production. So as you are venturing into this new world I would try out both and see which one feels more natural because you could script everything out and then have the realization of wow I sound like a robot and really I just need to be reminded what I'm going to talk about and then I'm just having a casual conversation. And then the last thing is the hook and that's another where another thing with clients where I'm always like you've got to give me something to finish it off and ultimately say like what do we want people what action do we want people to take at the end of it or what's the take away. And don't be afraid to actually tell people what you want them to do. I personally saw such a breakthrough in my content when I started verbally saying if you like X Y or Z. Make sure you're following me because I share those things. I think we kind of assume people will jump to that conclusion of like oh I like this video it's helpful like I should follow. But in reality we need to tell people exactly the action we want them to take so don't be afraid to say if you found this helpful like let me know what your biggest breakthrough was in the comments and make sure to follow for you know the other three mistakes I see people make or something like that. Yeah I never think anything of that when people say it I'm not like you or ever like it doesn't even hit me I'm like oh cool this is what she does it's almost like saying a and this is what I do you know without having to say. I think we maybe have a little bit of this like icky factor of being like asking people to follow us. Yeah but I think if you you know at your core of your content is like I'm providing value like I'm a resource to you. You should follow me because I put a lot of effort and I give a lot of great take aways. So it's sort of a win win situation and we kind of just have to get over the little discomfort that comes up with being like hey follow me. Totally. Yeah and I actually I think it's a service for the person watching if they're looking for more content like what you're doing it's like oh you do this all the time thank you so much. So I love that. Okay so you've helped a ton of people set up their many chat strategy but what do you think is the like when when you see this what are the most common mistakes that you see business owners making when they're doing it their self and like doing all their automation their self and how do you think that's costing them. Yeah so I think their bones is getting organized from the beginning there's often that feeling of like oh I'm so excited I'm trying this new thing and a big mistake I see with accounts of all differing sizes is not making a running list of your many chat triggers you're utilizing. So I have an automation that's sending this person to here here is the word because what happens and what I've had to kind of deal with with different clients is I get a message hey this is firing and they're being sent here and then we have to play a game of detective to figure out what of their thousands of automations is doing that and so if they have a database that's just like oh here's the word here's what it's sending them to. That is going to save you so much time and effort as you scale and grow because ultimately like that's the goal we're working towards so let's set ourselves up for success from the beginning so organization. Both from making a running list of your trigger word utilizing folders making sure you're actually labeling your automation so it's very clear what we're sending people to what kind of automation it is. I kind of as a practice you know I think you get excited and you're just like let's build new ones and like let's build this and this and this and you can kind of snowball and let all of that be like an afterthought but really kind of implementing that from the beginning especially if you're going to be passing it off to a team member or something like that. The other big mistakes I see are it sounds simple but not testing your automations a lot of times people set it up in the back end and then they're just sort of like okay great like. It's good it's often running and it is important to send yourself through it a to make sure it's set up correctly and people are being added where you want them to be. But then also to make sure the user experience is friendly and there's no moments where you're like oh that's redundant or that makes no sense that that's supposed to be my next step. I like to meet the joke of like send a normie through it so someone who's like not at all in the marketing world and doesn't honestly even better if they don't know many chat because we operate oftentimes in I'm in this program all day long or if you're in the online space like I know. Exactly the end goal and like I know what action I want them to take but sending someone who's really almost like unaware of any of that is really helpful because then they might have good questions or say like. Oh this this feels long like I'm kind of I'm giving up at this point. That's a really interesting feedback to receive. And then lastly is a little bit more kind of what I would consider level two. So once you start doing lead generation and that sort of thing making sure you're actually collecting the email address in many chat instead of what a lot of people do is they're like oh I'm using many chat for lead generation but they're just sending people to the link on their website which is a great it still works 100% like it you will see. Success and as an entry step amazing awesome but level two let's eliminate the form and collect all of that data in many chat because it's a better user experience and we have higher completion rates. So then you're saying you have their email where before you're just sending them to the link. Yeah before you're sending them to the form so we don't know if they've completed the form if they've given us their email before we have to have them do it again it just creates way more noise as opposed to like utilizing the tool for what it was actually built for. Okay so beyond like the basic that we talked about and I know we might have covered some of this in the beginning beyond like everything that we've chatted about is there even more creative ways that you've seen many chat being used. Yeah so I kind of love to make that my mission at times because anytime you talk about many chat on YouTube tick tock everyone loves to tell you how spammy it is. So I think there's a lot of merit in kind of saying like okay I'll take your it's so spammy comment and figuring out ways to utilize it so your audience almost falls even more in love with you and your system and the world you're building so. So I'm a firm believer in like every online business probably has way more content than they even know what to do with and one thing that I've really loved building lately is resource flows. So say you have different topics I mean you probably yourself have an extensive podcast library. If you make a real on you know marketing for whomever. Here's five resources that you might also want to listen to that are totally free that they could comment and receive. So it could be PDFs it could be podcast episodes YouTube videos blog posts kind of that content that wouldn't necessarily get eyes. But we can send it to someone as a way of like hey here's some free resources that I've worked hard on that can kind of help you along this journey. And by doing so we're nurturing them we're getting them familiar with our work what we put out there so that way down the line if we want to sell them into you know a tiny offer or a higher priced course we've created that good will and it feels.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, which most people do have a podcast where they have them talking somewhere or they went on a podcast specifically saying hey if you're wanting to know how to launch a course or Grow a podcast or whatever you get asked consistently about to link that that is so Smart rather than having to go and create a full brand new opt-in Oh my god And you do two things in one because you're driving traffic back to something that you've already done to get even more eyeballs on it Along with collecting their email I'm literally gonna do that that is so smart. Yeah, yeah, and they Just thinking about it Podcasting like why wouldn't I put together four topics? Like if you're stuck if you're if your mindset is stuck if you are in the beginning of your business and you know You plateaued or whatever. I don't know. I'll think of it, but brilliant totally And then the two kind of to build off of that one we can start tagging those people So you can start to see on the back end like okay These are all the people that are interested in mindset and then we can filter messages based on tags people have down the line and Then the other part of that is when you add those little kind of like I'm starting to Use language around many chat of like community builders or like nurture builders Into the middle of content Your engagement also increases because in the past maybe if it was like one take away in the caption and it ended there People are maybe sending it and saving it but say it was like a main takeaway Oh, by the way, if you want my three favorite podcast episodes on Manifestation like comment manifest you didn't have to do any extra work your caption and content stays almost the same But I guarantee you you're gonna get a lot more traction and comments now on that post So it's just easy ways to add more engagement and more Conversation and ultimately community building within the world you're building. Yeah, I love it people don't realize It's not just one thing. It's a domino for everything you're doing like it is a ripple effect across Everything it it like raises all ships across everything. So it's really amazing and like you said I think people don't realize when they we don't have like calls to action Many chat is such a call to action to like comment it like raises so much engagement, you know, yes So that's huge. I love that. Okay. So how do you balance automated? Interactions through many chat with the authentic personal touch that people expect Yeah, I think it is getting clear on The tools or what you're using many chat for so kind of coming back to sending those resources like that's a great way to Manually build that trust and then from there I might continue the conversation a little bit deeper if someone had questions I'm also a big fan of Utilizing it to better serve your audience. So during launch periods I've worked with different teams where We've kind of done a check-in and said like hey, do you have any questions about? Whatever it is and if they select yes We'll set up a system where it'll ping the customer service team in slack and say like at this handle is in the DMs with a question about course or product and so that's kind of a combination pairing of like We're gonna utilize many chat to kind of get in touch with those who actually want that one-on-one Communication and then use systems to just streamline the process. I love it for like what you're saying I've been using it for literally just getting people the information and I go kind of just a step Maybe a step more than some people right now, but it's working really well Let's say they're interested in in our VIP weekend at our house once it sends the info I know that they've seen it because it says seen, you know, and I'm like, okay Didn't comment back they didn't take any action. They didn't do anything. So it might be two days later Typically is when I do it. I will literally personally voice note. Hey, what are your like top two goals in your business? I mean that has been that is what is like when people are struggling. I'm like, have you reached out personally? I know that that might be Opposite of the automation but the automation gets it started and it kind of gives you this like pulse on okay Well, they were interested. Where did we get stuck? You know what I mean? So I know that we can automate some of that but I think for higher ticket you could jump in there faster lower ticket You could automate a little bit more Totally, I love that the other thing that you can add to the end of an automation is just like by the way I'm curious what you think of XY or Z or like what other content ideas you want to see for me or that kind of thing and That's a really great similarly conversation starter and then we can also automate that to be sent over to a Google sheet so that way as you are planning more content You have an existing bank of like here is from my actual audience the things that they are interested in learning about and it required No manual, you know tracking or data pulling from anyone on your team Yeah, it's you know, I remember back in the day when people who were way ahead of me in business I'm like, oh my god, how are they like crushing all these different things? They just had so many systems and they had so much so many ways to collect data And that's one thing that I think were you know, it might seem heavy to a lot of people But I'm telling you with some good many chat strategies you can collect So much data around your customer so that you stop even like doing things or putting out content that they don't want and you can start Looking at oh, I had no idea that people perceive me in this way and want to see more of this You know, you just don't know till you start getting data So I think many chats are really fun way to gather data faster Okay So how is your approach to social media strategy evolved since you first started and what predictions do you have for where? Your platforms and algorithms are heading in the coming year Yeah, I am more than ever. I'm really leaning into trying to make it feel like a community and finding ways to really foster that I love creating kind of like inside jokes with your audience or Through lines so say you talked about something and it was like a hot topic I'll give an example I'm tall and I was going to something I was like talking about how as a talk person sometimes when you wear heels you feel so Overdressed like you could be wearing the exact same outfit as everyone else But like because you have heels you're six inches taller than everyone else in the room it feels Kind of like oh, I'm definitely overdressed and I made a story about it You know threw it out there the response was wild Everyone was coming through like oh like we need to wear our heels or like I relate or that kind of thing And now in the back of my head that's a topic or little thing to like bring back So the next time I'm wearing heels like who remembers to heal debacle like I'm wearing heels today I'm like very proud I took a note out of your book and I think little things like that are a great way because if you were around for the original Part of the conversation you feel clued in like you feel a part of the inside joke like oh I remember blah blah blah and if you're new You have a little bit of that FOMO of like oh this is the This is the community here like there's inside Discourse and conversations like I want to tap in so Really getting out of the mindset of like a megaphone to a crowd of everyone and Kind of bringing more so the like dinner table round circle feel I think is really important And I think is a shift that business owners can take from Creators that are kind of creating in a more just like I'm a content creator Capacity because at the end of the day I need to be like the person that brings this up But we're all fighting for the same attention So whether you're a business owner or a creator we're all creating for the same FYP and Algorithms so how can we learn from one another so that way our content stands out? I love that okay, so Curveball because I it's you know I know you do a lot of work with personal brands But for like product base brands because I have a physical product I find it so challenging to get people into a list with a physical product give me some creative ideas on Either more community building or really like getting people into a list for a physical product Yeah, I think more than ever it's the I call it like the price of our follow It feels like we really need buy-in from someone for the follow I think that serial content is Something like not like the future of all content, but I think it is a really really strong way to Build an audience because now more than ever social media is kind of fighting traditional TV for attention spans So I would be interested to see if there is some sort of adjacent Serial content that could be created that has to do with the product but also More so what's the ethos and take away of adding this product into your life? There's a ramen Company and restaurant. There's some sort of in-not space Their tick-tock literally never talks about their actual product and its interviews with people and my guess as a Consumer and just like someone who likes to dig into why why people are making certain decisions about content is Like conversations over meals like when you have a great meal The meal is great like the food itself But it's also the conversation and what's disclosed and the emotions that are shared And so I think through their content instead of saying like Here's what we make they're trying to elicit the experience you would potentially get Over their product. We're seeing that with built rewards right now. They're actually building out like a very extensive It almost looks like a TV show series on Tick-tock and Instagram so I think ways where you can kind of break out of the product placement and more so What kind of person? Utilizes that product and what content speaks to them. Hmm. That's so interesting as you're talking I'm just like picturing all of these different things. So what I came up with this is like first I don't know if I'm gonna do it But just for an example to anyone who has a brand like I have a wellness brand So I feel like something that could be like not talking about the product But could be a value add to the audience is like it could be going up on the street and asking women like what's one weird You know thing you do for yourself. That's like, you know a personal like Like a self-love ritual that people wouldn't expect like what is it or something like that? You know what I mean like I'd wait here like what does she do like what are things she can't live without or Just a bunch of questions like that where it's like what do women do for their own like health and mental wellness that we don't know Like I would love the following little series of different stuff like that. So anyway, the example like how you know what I mean Just trying to share people the way that we're the way that we're thinking And you have to routine. Yes, like I was as series on routines. I Love I'm like show me everyone's routine morning routine evening routine like that could be Interesting because then you can have like oh, I make a quick drink the product is featured But it's not like here all of the thousands of benefits and why it's where Z. It's more so like the atmosphere Totally and just yeah, I love that I would love to sneak peek into everybody's routine like just a little clip, you know not too much But like what are the three things you like always have to do in your morning routine or your nighttime routine? Okay, I love that. All right. So Anything else on many chat that we have left on the table There I know there's so you know, there's so much actually but there's so much but I think I just always encourage business owners to Approach it and result and work backwards as opposed to oh I'm seeing people build these things so I need to do x y or z like really look at your Business and goals and like at the end of the day You're likely creating content as a means to an end Like unless you you know really are stepping into your content creator chapter Which I love that for you, but most business owners are creating content to sell products find clients Whatever that is so figuring out like how do your automations actually bring you towards that goal and don't just make Automations because everyone is you know utilizing many chat and therefore you need to as well Mm-hmm. Okay. I love that. All right Well, I want to hit on a couple personal things because you are you're not only a many chat creator But you also are a bit of an influencer yourself. I know yes I'm stepping about world. I know it's like a newer. I know I made you own it. I need to own it myself You made me say it so All right, I want to know you know with the the things that you're putting out there right now I know you've moved to a new city. I know you're talking a lot about you know moving on You're owned to a new city doing things alone meeting different people kind of tell me where even just that concept of This is what I want to talk about came from Yeah, so Admittedly I moved almost a year ago to the day to Boston from New York And it kind of started as like I just need a creative outlet or space to kind of document this experience And I also at the time was looking for someone who had done it and didn't necessarily see the like They made it through they were on the other side like there's a lot of that like I want to see someone else who has made those life choices So I know I'll be okay and I'm a big Video journal are I get to in my head when I'm writing. I just want to be this like prolific writer So I often will just set my phone up and speak to myself and just Talk about whatever comes to mind and I have a video From like May a year and a half ago at this point saying like I want to be the Google search for someone else When they're looking to be like can I you know leave a relationship and totally kind of move to a city and not know anyone and kind of start fresh and it's very Full circle moment to get DMs of from women in particular who are like you've encouraged me to like put myself out there or Like proved that I can get through X Y or Z So it feels very very fulfilling and I think that's kind of like my why at the end of the day And now I'm sort of pairing it with all of my background in strategy to figure out like okay How do you how do you strategically have those conversations and what does that look like from a business perspective? Mm-hmm So question for you because so many people are multifaceted like you're very multifaceted you really love to Like you like you just said you love to help women You know if they if they're starting over set up a new lifestyle take risks go on solo trips Go to eat on their own do all the things so that obviously it's building confidence and independence and you're you know able to kind of get through anything once you've done these things that you're showing that's really from your page so great job But are you also so you're doing your you know your your business side? But then you're setting yourself up more in this type of way that we just chatted about How are you merging those and how are people finding you if they land on your social? But you also want to work with them in business Yeah, it's an interesting Endeavor that I'm constantly navigating because I think as an algorithm We love to put people into a box and so it can feel like oh I have to niche I have to niche and That I think was my downfall for a good year of just feeling like I Almost didn't make any choices because I was so caught up in like well How do I boil it down to one sentence of who I am and I sort of had this moment where At the end I was like I'm a multifaceted human being and Embracing that will open the right doors and I know that sounds a little like I'm sure people are like okay Well, what's the tangible step? But I truly think once you are willing to be seen trying and say like hey I'm gonna share about this and I'm also gonna share about that like you end up in interesting rooms with founders who then Need help with social strategy or I'm doing it myself I'm creating many chat automations for my own personal brand content and people are like wait How are you doing that? Like I want to learn more and then it's like oh, that's you know all of this side of my business so Viewing it as a superpower potentially instead of Oh like I don't have one thing so therefore like I'm not good at it, you know, I think that's it's a mindset thing that we Specifically I think as women and societally but then also just when you think of an algorithm and it being like, you know What's your niche? What's your niche can kind of feel constrained by Yeah, it's been it's actually been my hardest thing my entire career like everyone has talked about You need a niche you need one sentence you need the thing and I'm like I cannot compute so Like it has been one of the biggest challenges for me and so many people are like well when I land on your page What are you and I'm like You got me because I do so many things, you know, it's very multifaceted. So I do feel like you can absolutely still be successful It might take a little longer for you or you might have to like play with a lot of different things But I for sure think it's possible So yeah, and I love that you're you're well you're you're sort of paving the way right because I think it is great to see people like you in the space and all of the different Elements that make you you Because then it's kind of like well I could do the same thing because at the end of the day like you are the unifier of all of those different things whether it's coaching or You know a product-based business like the one thing that remains constant is you and your values and your point of view Yeah, maybe it's like multifaceted founder who helps confused multifaceted people And we might not get to a conclusion But we're all multifaceted and we'll have really interesting conversations because we like a bunch of different things Exactly. I'm like one is our podcast great. I can help you want to write a book great I can help you want to start a product awesome. I can help you Do my that's what I feel like in a way like life is too short to only do one thing like yeah And I'm sure you've experienced this like the work you do in one area So impacts the work you do over here and it almost makes you Better like all of the different factors play like a game of ping-pong and you only become more strategic in the business side by becoming a creator or Working and learning here. And I think it's very there's a lot more Um connection than we all think I agree and I do think it's a personality type and you know for people Telling people like us like you have to have the one thing it actually feels terrible So it's like that just feels really impossible for me. So and for anybody listening It's not like I did all of these things all together at once. I'm a little like I'm in my mid 40s so like I've had years of Growing something and getting a team to kind of help and take over on that And then that allows me to move on to something else But I think that it is you know just years of kind of accumulating the things that you have wanted to do and then Understand how they can get systemized and automated and all the different things and hire teams for different things So it's not like I think when you see these people who you feel like are doing it all They're not doing it all they have a lot of teams. They have a lot of systems. They have a lot of many chats They have a lot of matties in their pocket doing a lot of different things for them And so I think Doing a lot is possible, but you're not going to do it all at once. So mattie How can somebody work with you and when do we know it's the right time to work with you? Yeah, so I always say that there's not a magic number when it comes to many chat because I've had You know people come to me with large Followings and then I look at their comments and kind of the interaction or just general discourse within their community and it's non existence totalers is accounts that are much smaller and They're you know very much overwhelmed with questions in the dns and comments So I think it's more so an engagement metric as opposed to you hit 50,000 followers Congratulations, like you should use many chat So I think it's a little bit of that knowing what are the things That are constantly coming up in dms or comments that you want to be able to automate And also from a strategic business standpoint as well Like you had mentioned kind of going back to the shop my links If you're someone who wants to be operating in that space like there's nothing wrong with that being your entry Into utilizing many chat and saying you know even if it's once or twice a week. I'm getting this Might be worth the extra few dollars here and there because Once people start to realize oh, this is the great resource like my work is done for me I don't have to do my shopping because I can just see what she's wearing and then order it myself You know that can be a great entry point So there's not necessarily like a recipe for the perfect time to but I think Once you start to feel that shift towards it being a little bit overwhelming Can be really helpful to implement it and then when it comes to working with someone People feel differently about it. I'm a big obviously like di wire. I love to take an initial Go at something myself because I also want to just know how it works and that kind of thing So some people will get started on their own and then bring in an expert down the line when they want to scale or optimize And then I've also had other clients that are you know have very large audiences and are Entering the world for the first time and I just kind of like take it off my hands set it up from the beginning So both of those are great options as well I think it's vital for people to have something at least one to Collect emails if you have a business like just try to get people Into a list because two years is going to go by and you're going to wish that you started today So for real, I mean, I wish I would have started really see like I I always quote unquote list bill But not actively like I didn't really put a lot of energy into it and now that is my goal from here on out moving forward Because it is so powerful. You just you're going to convert so much more It's just it's going to be a game changer Monetarily for your business. I promise you guys so I'm grateful for you coming on and for sharing And we've linked up everything in the show notes for matty So if you guys are interested in checking her out following her working with her We have that all down in the show notes. Otherwise you can go follow her on instagram matty. What's your handle? Matty boom a okay amazing. All right. Well, I'm so grateful that you came on and Is there any last thing that you want to share? I'm so happy to have kind of gotten to chat and go through things and I'm I'm very excited to see those resource automations that I feel like our Our brainstorming during this session. So yeah, I will say the brainstorm session. This was great. This is why a podcast so It's fully selfish you guys, but I do hope you got a lot out of it because she's amazing So all right. Thank you again and everyone. Thanks for tuning in Share this with a friend who maybe you think does not know about many chat or who needs more many chat Automations set up for themselves and until next time earn your happy. Bye everyone

=== FILE: Data Backed Strategies to Grow FASTER on Social with Valeria Lipovetsky [tjZ2oK-ZSTk].txt ===

 if you want to really be an industry leader, you have to show up, like, I would say more consistent than even some of the top people. I do four podcasts a week and I have for eight years and that's why I'm a top 25 podcast. If you want to make money off of it, if you want to build a business, if you want to be known in the industry, it's going to take a lot of work. It's going to feel very uncomfortable. There's going to be a lot of embarrassment. You're going to have to push yourself all the time. It requires for you to show up relentlessly. Well, Larry, welcome to the Earn Your Happy Podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you so much for having me. I'm honored to be here. I'm so excited we could finally make this happen because you are a big inspiration for me to follow on social media because I am always, always trying to get better with my content and it's such an evolution. I know everybody listening to this. It's something that doesn't necessarily get easier because you have to keep changing and it is such a form of personal growth and I've really just enjoyed watching the journey of how you've been really real, raw, vulnerable. You're someone that I follow because you're able to include your family, your kids, your husband, fashion, personal development, friendship, business. I do feel like that's a little more rare that actually when I think of you, I know you for all of that. I think you're fun to follow. Thank you. That means a lot actually. I think you're fun to follow for me for that reason is because I know that there was a big conversation years ago about the importance of niching down and I was just like, I can't niche down. I'm such a creative and this is my whole life. How do I portray that? We're excited to chat with you today and have you on here for all of my multifaceted creatives who have trouble niching down. Welcome. I love it. I love that you even started with this whole conversation about niching down because it's something that I've been really grappling with because you hear it a lot from a lot of people and not a real. It's such a personal decision. God knows that if I would have listened to this niche down, I probably wouldn't have been around. I would have burnt out and I had no other source of inspiration to keep going. I'm really happy that I listened to my own intuition on this one and figured out a way to be all the things, all the ones. Okay. I love this. I love knowing that you struggled too. Did you have that moment where you're like, what the hell am I going to do? I don't know how to get into one topic. Listen, it was even for me a battle because I was asking myself, am I confusing my audience? Am I confusing new people that are coming in that maybe came in from the fashion and all of a sudden, they're getting served motherhood or personal development or all these other things and they're just kind of like, what am I doing here? Why am I following her? I've realized that that's a risk I'm willing to take because again, for me, when it comes to social media, it's all about consistency. We speak so much about authenticity and at the end of the day, in order for me to show up authentically, I have to show up with whatever that I carry with myself with that day. I can't just come up and start playing a role. It's just something that for me was inevitable. I'm either doing it this way or I'm not doing it at all. Great. This confirms. It could have been a really bad business decision. Thankfully, it turned out to be a good business decision because listen, I do see so many creators. We work with so many creators where I do truly see that their audience is very attracted to this one aspect of them. At the end of the day, if you want to turn it into a business and you want to have life put out of it, you have to take that consideration. At some point, you have to be extremely honest with yourself and be like, this is what people want from me. I got to give them that. I just always like to play even with those people that are so-called niche to always have the 20% that you can play with because, again, it's more of that fuel for you to keep going more than anything else. At the end of the day, this is such a creative space. If you set the creativity out of it, then it's difficult to continue going. Something I love that you do and I think creators do really well, big creators do really well is they always take us back and show us the timeline. I think it's really easy to think that people were successful overnight. It's so easy for me to think that I'm like, where the hell did this girl come from? She just popped up overnight. What is this? You've done a really great job of those almost like transformational before and after carousels, reels, like really taking us back through the beginning to be like, oh, she wasn't always this way or she wasn't always quote unquote perfect or whatever people are saying in their head about you. Tell me about the beginning because I want to know about that moment where you just started posting and you didn't know what you were doing and the transition of the moment of, whoa, I think this might be like more than just me posting. This might be a business. Did you start out thinking you wanted this to be a business? I had a few different kind of aha moments throughout my career and I'll start with the first one which wasn't necessarily aha in the business sense. It was more of a personal aha. I was doing modeling up until I got married and then we knew that we're going to start a family. I've realized that I can travel and work as much as they used to. I started looking into, okay, what is next for me? What am I interested in? I went into holistic nutrition. I got my diploma and I was like, okay, I'm going to do that. I've realized really quickly that I don't want it to be a physical to try to bring all that information and knowledge that I've gained to kind of a bigger audience. That's when it got me into actually blogging. That was already 2017 which was kind of late. I feel like the blogging era was really popping in 2010. I was like seven years late to that but that was my steppingstone to social media. While I was blogging, I was also sharing my blog post on all the mommy groups. Back then I was living in Toronto, in Toronto, in my neighborhood and I kind of got the people going to my blogs. Then what I've realized is that it was really fun for me because I was able to share the information but I felt like I was still playing it safe. That was kind of the aha moment for me where, hey, how can I take this sharing? Again, I don't see it really as a business. I didn't even try to look for clients. I was just like, I'm going to share it for free. How do I then use this to build my own confidence? Because at that point, coming from the modeling world, you are very much lack identity because you are, at that point I was constantly coming to shoots just being a canvas. I was waiting for the world if it's the producer, the production manager, the creative director to tell me who I am. I never had a true understanding of who I am. I've seen an opportunity when I started posting to be like, hey, I can really build myself here. At that point, I was already 24, 25, I already had two small kids. This is the time for me to really start taking, paying attention to that. That's kind of what brought me to YouTube, which was the first really real social media platform. For me, it was the answer to battling my own limiting beliefs, bringing forward things that I had knowledge in, which was nutrition, which was fashion, which was beauty. Using all that, and also, again, redefining or actually finally defining who I am and what my voice is. That was my first moment, what got me to social media. When I started, because I didn't really have this need or understanding that this is really an industry, I didn't care so much to grow fast or I didn't even think about it. If I'm taking you now forward, I would say maybe a year in. I started doing it consistently. I taught myself how to edit, how to upload, how to do all these things, started negotiating small little deals that came to me through YouTube. The year, I would say, 2018, my husband, Gary, who's now my business partner, came to me and he's like, listen, we got this check in the mail and it's for a large number. I asked everyone that I know and none of it came from me. Do you maybe know what it is? I was like, yeah, it was the sponsorship that I did. He's like, excuse me. At that point, he was like, what are you doing? Because he wasn't even aware that I was doing anything to do with social media. He would leave to work, I would put the kids in daycare, and I would do my work. What was Gary doing at the time? At that time, he was working with Facebook. It was kind of like a viral news type of platform. He had an understanding into social media, but not to that extent, not as a personal brand. He was working mostly with celebrities. When he started seeing what I was doing, he's like, okay, this is the media of the future. What you're doing right now is you're building something that everybody will have to have in the future. He was talking to a 26-year-old who was in my opinion, I was just making recipes swirling in my bedroom with dresses. I'm like, okay, this is the media of the future, fine, I guess. He really sat me down and tried to make me understand that this is a huge opportunity. And do you want to bet on yourself? That was the next Ahamu-minsum. Because all of a sudden, now it was a business Ahamu. Now it's like, okay, this is no longer about just me trying to build my confidence. This is now like, are we making this into a business? Am I going to believe in myself? And do I have what it takes to do the amount of work and whatever it takes? Because I know my husband, Gary, is extremely intense. If he puts his mind into something, it's all or nothing. And at that point, when he asked me that question, he's like, if you say yes, can I be your business partner? And I'm like, okay, obviously there was no other person I would do it with but my husband. And that was really the beginning of Valeria Inc, which is the corporation we started. And we started operating it as a true media company, even when it was one employee and then the second employee. And then really building an infrastructure around me while learning, right? Like we're building the plane while flying it. Because again, it wasn't an industry that A was defined. I didn't even know where to look for talent, you know, to come and work for us. And we had to train a lot of people through our own experiences. So we had to first do all the jobs in order to even understand what is needed and what it's called. We came up with most of the titles, honestly, pulled them out of nowhere. And yeah, and we just really figured it out and started building on top of it. Again, it was truly a combination of all our past experiences that kind of created this amazing opportunity for us because Gary was also an exited entrepreneur. And he, you know, he knew how to grow a company from zero to in one year, he grew his company from zero to 400 employees before selling it. So he had all that information. And all I needed to do is really first of all, learn how to work with my husband, because that's a challenge on its own. And then also believe in this vision, right? And what it could be. And I thought it was just so ironic that this is what was in front of me, me, somebody that like my biggest, I feel like challenge was to first kind of buying into myself, you know, and believing in myself in order to make this happen. So those were really kind of the two moments that define, I would say, my career. So good. Okay, I have so many questions about that. So what was one of the main beliefs that you had to get over in your head that you had to like replace in order to go all in? And then I want to know what all in looked like? Well, I think the biggest thing, and again, this still shows up. And I think it shows up for a lot of creators is like, who cares? This is not valuable. What am I talking about? Is this discounting of your own words, experience, things that you share, because, you know, you can always point to someone else, some kind of expert or whatever and be like, I'm not as qualified. I'm not as knowledgeable. I'm not as pretty. I'm not as whatever. Right. So this comparison game is constantly there playing in your head to kind of diminish your own light. So that was my biggest thing. And that's something that I battled with as a child. Right. So I brought everything with me into this. And I really had to change that mindset into, you know, this is my unique perspective. I am not an expert. And I always repeated it to myself. I'm not an expert. I'm a vessel. I'm a vessel. Like I'm bringing the information and these experiences and whatever it is I'm talking about are coming through me. And some will find it valuable. Valuable others won't. But that's okay. That's not my job to decide, you know. So it was again, looking at what I do is I'm being used as a tool. And I think that really brought that humility and also just simplicity to what I was doing. What did all in look like? Because your husband's like, okay, if we're going to do this, we're going to do it. And I think it's really important for people to hear because I am still in the space where I know I'm not all in on social. And I have to figure out what that looks like, because we can get really consumed in different parts of our business. When I'm really starting to realize, especially talking to someone like you and when I look at people who are really successful, like social and getting out there and really using different platforms is like their number one most important thing because it attracts the eyeballs. And there's not a whole lot that can't be solved with more audience because you can tweak your message. You can, you know, get data on different things. You can relaunch something else. But if you don't have the attention, you really don't have anything. So what does all in look like? What do it look like at the beginning? Can you tell me a little bit about what that looks like right now? Well, I think it didn't change much from the beginning, I have to tell you. The all in meant that I'm taking the seriously. This is my career. This is not something that I do. I get up and I'm like, I'm feeling cute. I'm going to film something. No, like there's a very specific schedule. Every day I have responsibilities. You know, people rely on me. This has nothing to do with, you know, if the weather is gray or sunny, right? So that's number one. Going all in is also buying fully into it, even with the way you speak about it, right? I just, I still remember one of the first meetings that we've had when people started paying attention to me, we were called to this one agency that we're trying to represent me. And my husband came in, I went with Gary and my husband comes in and he sits down and he's like, listen, I'm very interested to hear your pitch. But before you start the pitch, I'm just letting you know my wife is like the next Oprah. I'm just letting you know. And those wars, like I wanted to die under that. You understand, right? Like, I'm just, I literally have like 15,000 followers. I'm like, Oh my God, please. But the conviction that he set it in, when they started pitching it, you could see that on their faces, they realized that they can't do a better job than what we can do. So it was just like going all in is also understanding and seeing the vision and getting committed to it. You know what I mean? Like saying those things out loud. It took me years to feel comfortable to hear him say it, let alone me starting to say it. I started saying it, not the Oprah part, but I started saying it only a couple of years ago. I'm in this business for nine years now, right? Gary's been saying it since I started. So it's a process, but that's all in. And honestly, once you have that conviction, you make very different choices that when then when you say like, yeah, maybe it's going to work, maybe not. I'm going to try, you know, just like with anything else, you're just there is no other way. Oh my God, that is so good. And such a good reminder. I mean, I was going to write something on my mirror. Yes, you write it everywhere. Yes. Okay. What did in the in the beginning and maybe it looks the same now? What did creating like or creating your content plan look like? I mean, there there is so much out there about your content plan. You should be a month ahead. A lot of creators like to plan like that day and post that day. What have you found because you do work with a lot of people you guys have a company called Creator Method that I actually joined and love it and watched all the videos. What do you think is some of the best ways to get started for content planning and figuring out what that should look like? Well, it depends because if you're in the absolute beginning, I think that the first muscle that needs to happen is you really just posting consistently and that's really whatever it looks like for you. If you can come into one video a day or two videos a week, at that point, like it doesn't have to be the specific format. So it just needs to be to train yourself to show up. That's number one. And then once you start showing up, you can start paying attention to what you speak on. You know, we talk a lot about gathering data and the data is really an opportunity to have a better understanding of what you need to lean into in your content. Some people start their accounts or already have their accounts going. They're part of a program that they have their niches. They know that they want to talk about psychology or about plastic surgery, whatever. And that's their main pillar. And then they can play around with different formats and really gather the data and be like, okay, this is what people want to see from it. And then it's really about scheduling, right? The content plan more than anything is like, you, before you're even able to build this, you need to gather all that information. So again, the consistency of it and what is realistic for your lifestyle, right? Because yes, you can hear people saying you have to post three times a day, we post four times a day, but I didn't start with posting four times a day. Now I can because there's a team around me. We have like systems in place, but me posting, I remember it was one YouTube video a week, and it was one post a day in the beginning was a must for me. And I probably followed it for like six months to a year before I emptied up and kind of, you know, made it into a different plan. And that's it really. And then you start playing around with the formats and you really see where your creativity shines, what you want to double on, what you what your audience want to see from you. So once you have all that information, then it's about, like I mentioned before, really is about scheduling. So for me, I've realized that coming off the weekend with the kids Mondays is not a time where I can shoot Monday is a time where I can I need to gather my my thoughts. I can have some meetings afternoon. I need to do a lot of prep work for the week. You know, so I'm being very intentional and conscious of how my plan my week looks like in order to make sure that my content plan is executed properly. So there's a lot of building blocks before you even get to the content plan. And I think that that's where a lot of people fail, because they do it the other way. Yeah, I just for anybody listening, like I have been really consciously working on this for about two years. Like I used to get away with back in the day, like I used to be able to just throw things up on Facebook, like I really built my audience doing Facebook lives. I did a challenge to be consistent. And I did Facebook lines every single day for a year. And that like really grew my audience, but it also kind of taught me to like be able to wing it. And so I was just able to really like kind of wing it and post content online. And then Instagram happened and I was like, what is this very cute content? So I'll tell you, I did okay. But the last two years has been like so amazing, but so challenging, like some of the most challenging, like things that I've done is try to figure out social media, what people want to see from me, how to, you know, get consistent, what should I be posting? So I'm still very much in that. But I will say what you said, like, a lot of the first year was just like trying to be consistent and figure out what the hell works and what I enjoy and what I'm good at and what I didn't like and like what comes easier, what topics. So it takes time. So if people feel it takes time, but I'm curious, like from what I broke down to you right now, where do you feel like it's not working for the last two years? I feel like I don't direct my content to our offers properly. And I'm not known for the things I want to be known for necessarily. It's like, I think they, I don't give enough information or teaching in my personal opinion on business mentorship. Like I show a lot more like lifestyley, but I want it to be filling my programs more. So, you know, you are, you're obviously not a beginner or in that category. For me, you truly are someone and I don't know if you've ever attended any of our calls, but that's something that also happens quite often with creators that already kind of build an audience and build an understanding of what they want to do. It's difficult for them to merge a few different pillars together, right? It's again, we're going all or nothing. If we're saying, oh, I want people to get to know me, we're going so hard into the lifestyle that we forget to kind of bring in those other aspects of the business or these other things and kind of, you know, mash them together. So, people then it becomes a bit black and white. It's like, here's a lifestyle content and then you get the other extreme like this is a business content and it's becomes too scattered even for people, right? Because it's like people get to connect with you through your personal content. But the magic of storytelling is the ability to bring in your expertise in that approachable lifestyle, you know, real way. And that takes a long time as well. There's also these stages in the, you know, for a content creator where they need to learn how they're able to infuse their messaging in a way that feels authentic and approachable, but they are still looked at as experts. It's, I'm telling you, it's so tricky. And like, so many people don't understand the intricacy of the storytelling when you have a few different things going on, when you're not just committed to one format and one niche, you know. So, it's definitely a struggle that I see a lot of people dealing with. Well, you're just reminding me to get on calls now. Get on calls. I just, I was just leading on call last week and it's amazing. It honestly inspires me so much. I want to tell you I've been in this industry for nine years and I am surrounded by so many successful, like pioneers and people that have been, you know, on social media for so long. But it's, again, the people that are in the, either in the beginning stages or even the more advanced stages, but have that student mindset that is the most inspiring, right? Because you can be in an industry for so long, you just become so closed off to everything, the innovation and how to think about things. You just kind of continue doing the same thing. And that's to me, the beginning of the end. So, I get so much inspiration from being around people that are still figuring it out because that's where the magic happens. And that's honestly why it was so, I was so eager to really make, create a method, a community more than just, here's an educational video for you, you know, one to three and go. Because that's just this industry can constantly changing. And if you're not constantly touching base with the people that are deep in it, you kind of fall behind, you know? I totally know. It's the same way in business, it's the same reason I love masterminds, the same reason I love communities, like your community is because you have to keep your finger on the pulse. And we learn so much from our students all the time. Because I'm like, wait, what are you doing? How is that working? Let me, let me go dig into that. And, you know, I think one of the biggest things with groups and why your creator method is so important and why just being a part of a group is so important is because it's really easy when things get hard to listen to what most of the world is saying. And that is things failing, things are hard, the algorithm sucks, this isn't working. When honestly, people are winning every single day, like they are winning everywhere. But now, truly, the world feeds you what you start thinking and what you start saying. And so if you think it's failing in the algorithm sucks, you're only going to see more of that. So I think getting in these groups is like vital. I've sworn by it my whole career. Because I never get sucked into thinking like, here it is, here's the beginning of the end, kind of like what you said. It's like, no, people are still winning. Let's just figure it out. The energy has just shifted. The algorithm has just shifted. Like success just moved. It didn't go away. It just moved. You know, the ability to be, you know, with other people and to really understand how to turn challenges into opportunities is where, like, that's what it's about for me. Because once you start looking at life in that perspective, whether it be content creation, whether it be any other thing that's happening around you, it's, that's when you, you know, figure it out. I can, I mean, just through your content, you're really great with merging your mindset, which is also why I love you because I'm so into personal development, business and fashion. So I'm like, Marie, she's got it all. But I love that you do carry that kind of like how you said it's this dance of trying to figure out how to have these conversations about like who you are with mindset mixed into maybe you're trying on an outfit and you've just dropped something about the way that you think. And so I think when you find a few people that you really admire to study them is so powerful. Like, why did I like her post? Why? Like, why is she, you know, she's another fashion girly, but why am I more attracted to her content than someone else's content? And I think that's been really powerful is trying to learn those little, those little nuggets. Well, I mean, listen, you're asking all the right questions. So you're, you're on top of it. It's great. Just wait, give me a year. Give me a year. Wait, I like it faster than that. So God give me six months. Great. Listen, I want to tell you from me a huge step, you know, you mentioned with the Facebook that you were you gave yourself a challenge and you did Facebook live for me that huge jump happened during COVID. Like for me, when the world stopped and everything was closed off and I was able to fully just focus on what I can put out there that can change and shift the, this dark energy that was around us. I woke up in the morning, I was jumping out of bed and just kicking everybody out of my room. And I was just creating content from 9am until 6pm. I was like, I don't even know what came into me, you know, and I never felt like that before. And by the way, I've never felt that force again, after COVID, it was just calling. But again, it's also this ability to recognize, you know, this is an opportunity. I'm going through a hard time. This is an opportunity. Something is happening in the world. This is an opportunity. That's what I'm talking about, you know, and you've done it with your Facebook lives and you build a community with that. I did it on Instagram during COVID. And I got to tell you that that time taught me so, so much because I was fully in experimentation mode. And it's from that year that I've learned that I need, I'm going to have a podcast, I'm going to write a book, I want to get into women's health, I want to, like, I still have a list of all these lessons and all these things that these visions that I saw when I was in that insane, slow state. So it's just amazing to see like when you really surrender to it, you're getting a lot of direction, you know? Yeah, even like the language that you just used, I think that's really freedom for people. I think in the beginning, we can tend to like take it so serious. I just talked to this woman and she was like, you know, she's trying to get online and she's a Pilates teacher and she was like, oh, it's just the game is different. You have to be so good from the jump. And I was like, no, that couldn't be less true. And you had said, you know, you have to, you have to literally, even if this means how you talk to yourself, like the parameters you give yourself, like, I am just in experimentation mode, like this whole year is like permission to suck. And like, make the post that still like I still am in this, I'm like, oh, that post got a thousand views. Oh, I'm going to leave that up. Okay. Yeah.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, serious walking around here. You know, this is a video game. Yeah, I would never show up if I had to be like perfect all the time. It would be my worst nightmare. Okay, so tell me about the four times a day now, because for people who are aspiring to get there for you, how have you kind of decided what that content is going to look like? Is it like as like clear as I'm going to post this type of post this type of post this type and this type through the day now it's very clear because now, like I mentioned, we we have systems and obviously it's still fluid because you never know things happen. Or if I have something that came, you know, up for me and I'm like, no, this has to be posted today. This is relevant for me today. We obviously still shift things around. But generally, in order for me to, you know, have time to be creative, operate a company, be a mom, do all these things. We have a lot of we do a lot of pre production, we do a lot of pre planning. At this point in my career, we have a huge bank of content and we use it. We use it to create new content out of old footage, we use it to to your point, you said something that I love that you love about me is the fact that I, you know, bring back kind of those origin stories. That origin story doesn't require me to get up and film something new. All of that is in the bank, right? And then where the creativity happens is for my team who is trained at this point, or for me to be like, hey, let's do this, let's tell this story, let's pull from 2017 and bring the 2022, you know, so that's where the creativity happens without me constantly showing up at creating net new content. And at this point, we do have this like different balance for different things that in the beginning of the year, I have a meeting with my content team and we're like, okay, what is happening September is my birthday month. And then we have the kids and then there's, you know, different holidays, like we also create different content plans based on the month. So that kind of already gives you a bit of clarity, you can kind of breathe where it's not like every day you wake up, you're like, Oh my God, what am I going to post? Yeah, there's a bit of a structure happening there that really helps to guide me and us what it is that we're creating and what we're posting, you know, Halloween coming up, I used to do because I loved it. I used to we used to create a lot of Halloween content because I used to also do YouTube much more with the fashion stuff. So we used to do all these like crazy productions. And, you know, so all of those things we took into consideration. Now it's shifting. It's a little bit different. But even, you know, even if it's not production for Halloween, it's the content, you know, speaking on Halloween on the podcast, right? So there's just like different type of things that we use to help us build kind of the plan for that month. Okay, so back to the four times a day. Have you always like, are you going to stick with four times? Like we hear so much about, Oh, you shouldn't post like another post close to each other because it cannibalizes that like what are your thoughts? I think all of that is nonsense. And I'll tell you why this is from our own experimentation and our own data gathering. It's nonsense because you I look at the internet and content like real estate, this is free real estate. So yeah, you can buy, you know, a building a year cool, or you can buy one building every day, the more content I put out there, there's more of me out there. So I was very much before and you know, I hope my husband hears that he said summer clothes, but I used to be very like, No, we can't post that much. It's like, it's not cool. It's too much people are going to get tired. And he's like, What are you talking about? And you know what, we've done the experimentation we posted once a day recently, we've done the experimentation when we did three and at the end of the day, impressions and numbers don't lie. The more you post, the more eyeballs you get, you know, the more you post, the more people come to your page. They want to, you know, I also because of the variety of my content, I'm bringing different people with every post. So to your point, I given when I plan my content, I'm not going to post comedy four times a day because that's not my niche, but I was both fashion, and then I will post humor, and then I will post a podcast. So you have like a little conversation there. And then I will post a throw back a storytelling moment, you know, I give I bring in that variety today, because that's where I'm able to post four times a day. But the more the merrier, but I don't want to say that and scare people because again, consistency is the most important. So whatever it is, if it's three posts a week, commit to it. Yeah, and I love that you shared, you know, some of your posts aren't things that require you. There's so many things that if you start looking at content from that perspective of going, how much of that does she have to like get ready for and do and how much, you know, for a while quotes worked great for me. And I didn't have to do much. I sat down for an hour would create 30 quotes, and then I'd be done for the week. So really looking at what could those other posts be? But I totally agree with you on that. Like I do want to work my way up to getting to that we're at like two for the most part right now. But I do four podcasts a week and I have for eight years. And that's why I'm a top 25 podcast. It is literally like, because there you go. It's so consistent, you guys, I don't want to scare people either. But also, you have to like kind of pick if you want to really be an industry leader, you have to show up like I would say more consistent than even some of the top people because at the end of the day, it's like, what are what are people going to like go and grab if they're podcast listener every day? I'm giving them four chances to listen to my podcast. If it's once they can go to somebody else for those other four or five days and same with you like, you know, I don't see all of your posts. But I will say it's been great that I see a lot of your posts. And that's only because you do for a day or I may not actually see you at all, even being consistent. So I 100% we can work up to you. And I think it's super inspiring. And listen, I think that a lot of people, again, this is where I'm going to reiterate this understanding of looking at social media as the business because working with creators, there's this there's a bit of a misconception and even there's lines are blurred where people look talking about Oh, I create content and you know, it's my outlet and creativity. If you do it for your own creativity and bring you your own, you know, like little DIY project, I am so for it. And then at that point, you only do it when you truly feel called to do it. But if you want to make money off of it, if you want to build a business, if you want to be known in the industry, it's going to take a lot of work, it's going to feel very uncomfortable. There's going to be a lot of embarrassment, you're going to have to push yourself all the time. Yeah, those are you can have one without the other, right? And I think because sometimes people share kind of their personal life and their own personal, you know, things, they feel like it doesn't require the same level of dedication and work ethic and like breaking through all of those challenges that social media brings forward. But it's with anything else, you're an entrepreneur, and you're constantly trying to stay kind of in the in the race in the game, you know what I mean? So yes, it requires for you to show up relentlessly. I always joke my brand coordinator, because we're working really hard on creating content. And I'm like, whoever says, like these influencers and creators don't have to do anything. I'm like, these bitches work harder than anyone else. Like, oh my god, the hardest job ever to show up consistently, when you don't feel good when, you know, things aren't going great in the world, when you have family stuff going on, just when you're not in the mood, when you're not creative, like, and you still show up, I think it is such a insane, incredible, like success muscle to build. It's so inspiring that you've been able to do it and that you show up for people and it's you're a really great person to follow for people who want to really grow into that. Thanks. So you've done so much work for people who want to work with brands like one of your base things is really helping creators work with brands. I don't know a ton about that. In regards to social media, working with brands, because everything I've done for social has been to sell my own stuff. But I am super curious and for everybody listening, can you tell me a little bit about if someone wants to also start getting involved with working with brands, what that looks like? Working with brands, that was kind of our monetization from day one, honestly, and when we started building the company, we've never invested any money into it. So we grew the company based on the revenue that I was making. And, you know, I'm very proud of that. And to me, why I even said from the beginning and why I refer to Valeria Inc as a media agency, because that's what I do. It's one thing to learn how to tell a story when it's your own story. It's a different kind of set of skills to have a brand come to you. And then you are taking the brand story and then your story into consideration and create something new out of it that you know, your audience will find valuable, you know, or they will be open to listening to it. So and that's kind of the magic of influencers. And by the way, that's how I also differentiate between influencers and content creators, content creators do their own thing, you know, you create content, whether it's on a massive scale or just, you know, for hobby, influencers is someone that can truly influence if they have the inability to influence on your buying, whatever you buy, whatever you listen to, whatever you read, that's influencers to different categories. And today what's beautiful about the industry, there's so many different variations of social media, content creators and influencers, you can truly choose from a lot of different categories. It's not what it used to be, you either are in the millions or you're nothing. That's not what it is anymore. So for me, that's really what I love. That's what excites me. That's why we double down on working with brands. But it's really about selling, you're pitching, you're bringing in an idea to these brands. So how do you start working with brands in a very simplistic way? You have to start engaging with them. And the engaging with them comes from tagging them, you know, you use products every single day, we all do. So it's really about first getting on their radar, use social media, use the product, you tag them, you constantly tag them. Today, these brands are very smart, they track everything they see when you know, people truly use them. And when it's just, you know, whenever they get these anonymous emails, and they see that the person that is asking for a job from them actually never mentioned the brand. So it has to be a very authentic kind of approach to it. And once you done that, you really get into kind of their, their rotation, it can start as a gifting, then it begins into like, Hey, you want to do something? I have this great idea. And, you know, something that we champion a lot in our creator method community is you are your own ad agency, you can pitch, you don't have to be this like silent player where whenever they come and give you a campaign or job, you're like, Okay, like you don't wait until people come to you. So if you truly have a story, you have an, you seek an opportunity, how you can bring in a brand story into your own story, you reach out to them, like, Hey, guys, this is who I am. This is what I do. This is my reach. This is how I see our stories can collide and how it can be beneficial for my audience. And listen, magic happens, we have some brand partners that been with us for six years, seven years, and they really became like, you know, such a huge part of our organization. And these are brands that I love and we grow together. And there's a lot of opportunity out there for content creators that are interested in getting into the spaces and working with brands. There's a lot of opportunity there. But they also need to learn how to show up and how to start those conversations, you know? Yeah, I love it. There hasn't been a conversation yet where people are like, How have you, how'd you get to work with this person? Or how did you get on this person's radar? It's like, well, they added value first, like they talked about the product first, they, you know, shared their podcast multiple times, they got people enrolled into their group, like, so much about beating the first person to take action and adding a lot of value is literally always, I think, always the best way to go. So I love that. So tell me about from a brand perspective, how does a brand work with you? So I have a brand that I released like a year and a half ago, it's a skin and gut daily beauty supplement, almost like a hydration packet that you pour into water. If I and we just started working with influencers recently, what does that look like from a brand perspective to go, you know, into your company and work with different influencers. And what do you think from or for a brand is the most like powerful right now, because I know it used to be like, Oh, you want to get it with these really big people, but I heard there's no lift there, but that's like overarching for awareness kind of tell me what you think of that. Yeah, so that's also something that is part of Valeria Inc. We do a lot of consulting for brands that are trying to understand what's their best influencer strategy because it is we've seen so many mistakes in the market that small brands do throw so much money into things that really do not move the needle. Number one thing and again, you know, why we also really building out now the founders as kind of corner and creator method is because I truly believe that if a founder builds their personal brand, it will be the best for the brand itself, right? Because no one can speak to your mission to your product to everything that you put together with your own bare hands, better than you, right? And the founder itself. So that's something we always champion and I have so many examples of brands that are currently in Sephora and Alta and all these places where the founders took a back seat for operations and now all they're focusing on is building their personal brand, because they want to build towards a sale, right? And they know that if they elevate their personal brand, they can elevate the brand itself. And that's where the magic happens. So it's even happening with brands that already have huge revenues and well known in the month. So that's first for you to know the second thing. I think that, you know, it's a very living and kind of moving thing with influencer marketing, because in different stages of your business, you need to know when it's time for conversion and when it's time for awareness. And unfortunately, there's a lot of small brands that understandably so that are constantly looking for conversion because they need to sell. And again, I understand. But you reach kind of a limit to conversion when you're not simultaneously building the awareness. And this is again, right, when I was talking about different type of influencers, there's categories of influencers, there are your conversion influencers, you know, a lot of conversation right now around micro influencers, those are great. They have super engaged communities. If they're even niche ones, they can be amazing for conversion, smaller influencers, they can be amazing for conversion. And I'm talking 5000 to 10,000 followers, but then they won't give the awareness and branding job like a big influencer can give you. So you know, even when you're building kind of your influencer marketing plan, keeping that in mind, okay, right now, during this, you know, time of the business, we're gonna invest in a couple of big influencers, boost, get our names out there. And then through them, we can now gift a bunch of big names can help you get into a larger amount of smaller influencers. And it's kind of like a machine that feeds itself. So I think what the misconception that happens a lot of the times is that brands will kind of throw money at big influencers and hope for conversion, or they throw a lot of money into micro influencers. And then they kind of cap at some point with sales, you know, so that's something that the balance have to really be thought through and constantly kind of reshuffled. Depends on kind of where the business is at. Okay, what else are you excited about within Valeria, Inc? Oh, my God, so many things. So many things. To me, I'm very passionate about Creator Method. I want to continue building it and providing truly like a new, not even new a playbook to this industry. I feel like there's missing a lot of grand rules. I think a lot of creators don't understand their work. They don't understand the kind of entrepreneurs they are, and what kind of businesses and opportunities they have in front of them. I want to change that I want to advocate for creators to advocate for themselves, right? At the end of the day, every time we get on these calls, I'm like, I'm not here, I'm not, I'm not preaching anything. You're not you don't have to follow, you know, every single thing that I say what I'm trying to do is change the way you think, change the way you perspective, you're able to identify those opportunities and identify those moments where you can stand up and ask for something or how to ask for it or how to, you know, look at different content opportunities, things like that. So I want to really continue fostering that within our community. And yeah, and I think that again, there's so many amazing things that are happening in social media world, you know, we have so many people that are between the classic surgeon and the and the therapists and all these things that they are their own billboards, they are their own advocates for their businesses. And, you know, we have some creators that an expert that's seen like 80% surge in their business, right, because of social media, because they started showing up, there's really no barrier to entry. And that's what I'm trying to get people to understand. So I feel like there's a lot to do there. And yeah, and I think that again, we're in the business of constantly looking and finding new opportunities. So if you ask me next week, I'll probably have Ken more to tell you about that's where you're like, anything new you want to show me yet? I feel like this is why you these are why I do calls every month. Just update you exactly. Okay, what advice would you give to an aspiring content creator right now? That maybe you wish you had an aspiring one? Who's doing it but wants to really grow? I mean, I think that it's back to basics. I think that there's a lot of noise, there's a lot of conversations, there's a lot of advice from a lot of different experts. And at the end of the day, you really have to make sure that you build a strong foundation, you know, and build those muscles of resilience, consistency, and muscles of creativity, creativity is also a muscle. I think that a lot of people just like, you know, we used to speak on motivation, where you just kind of like, wait for motivation to hit you, it doesn't hit you, you know, you need that discipline is the same thing with with being a content creator, you need that discipline in order to build on top of that. So when you are focused on that, I think that chances for success gets higher. And you really learn to then notice the smaller things. You know, and again, the learning how to read your data and learning how to understand your audience and learning and constantly improving your messaging and what is your voice and what do you stand for all these things come when you show up. There's really no other magic pill. Yeah, okay, I'm gonna end with a little speed round of questions. Favorite part of working with your husband? That we can truly celebrate our wins together because he's so he knows what every single win entails. And it's amazing. And also the low points, you know, we can really understand each other and relate to kind of the difficulties. And I think that's very special. Okay, hardest part of working with your husband. Quieting the ego and really understanding that you both are working for the same goal. I think there are certain times where sometimes it feels like it's you against me. So, you know, being able to really look at it from that perspective helps. A lot. Favorite thing to do with your family? We love honestly going for walks, watching movies, simple things. Same, same. Are you match our coffee? Coffee. Coffee. Dressed up or come to fight to be the match girl it doesn't it's not working for me. I know I tried except I have a coffee shop near my house that's really nailing it. So we'll see they're converting. They said dressed up or comfies? Depends where. Same. Same. Okay, favorite food. I would say french fries and sushi. Okay, thing you are most excited about right now just like in your life. Is there anything that when you have downtime, you're just like, I can't stop thinking about this? Uh, paddle. What about? Oh, my God, really? I haven't tried it yet. I'm really into it and I feel like it's been such a busy month. I didn't have a chance to play and I'm just so eager because I'm so new and it's so humbling and I just love it. Okay, I'm a huge sports girlie. So I love that. And I think for people who are really busy like entrepreneurs, there's nothing like pickleball, snowboarding, wake surfing stuff where you cannot think about anything else but being in the moment. So I love that for you. Okay, I'm so happy that you came on and I'm so grateful for you that you shared everything. Where can we find you, follow you? How do we join Creator Method? Thank you so much for having me. You can find me at Valeria Lipovetsky on Honestly Everywhere and then with Creator Method, it's creatormethod.com to learn more about our community and what we do and what we're about. Yeah, I'm so grateful for you and you guys, I'm in there as well and I will link it up in the show notes. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.

=== FILE: From Failing Businesses to Multi 7-Figure Brands with Drew & Rachel Thomas [YNd-PlkVGCI].txt ===

 things are just messy, like, things are not gonna be perfect whatsoever. I feel like if you have that expectation that it's gotta look perfect, you'll never make it. You'll try to record your first podcast, you'll be so pissed, it'll just, like, nothing will ever come out. We don't edit anything, like, it's just, like, put the song on the front end, the back end, that's it. Done is better than perfect. Yeah. That is, like, our full-life mantra. I'm like, look, I would love to be a master in some areas, and I think that's important, but, like, there's a whole lot of stuff that's just done, if you know what I mean. Rachel and Drew, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thanks for having us. I'm so excited to have you in person here. It's so much fun that you actually got to travel in person, and I love that I get to chat with another husband and wife who work together. Yeah. It's hard. No, it's not like hard to work together, but it's like hard to meet other people that work together that, like, don't bite each other's heads off. And I would agree with you, though. I would have to say my husband and I had to learn so much about how to work together in the beginning. We did not do well together in the very beginning. Like, the first year, I was like, what the hell did I do? We always say that as we, like, grow, as the businesses grow, like, I mean, our chest expand at the same time and everything, we have to expand in all directions. Really do. Because we work together. Yeah, I can't wait to dive into that. I'm going to, I have a few questions around that because I do think so many people have it as the dream of either retiring their husband or wanting to, you know, bring their husband into the business. And I think setting up kind of the expectations around it and knowing what works is so important, or you could, you can be kind of walking into a nightmare. Like, I literally felt like I was in a nightmare for the first year because him and I were speaking a different language. So what I would love to chat with you about, though, is I want to go back to Baby Drew and Rachel before you got into exactly what you're doing now. And I would love to know what both of your perspectives were on entrepreneurship and dreaming big. Yeah, we think that one. Well, we met as COVID was unraveling, unfolding. Okay. And I am Jim's and she had the salon and they were both just full freefall, you know, everything was shut down. And it was everything was beginning to get shut down. So we met and like, how's your business like awful, you know, trauma bonding. Yeah, a little trauma bonding. And then we just, we immediately just got just started helping each other, you know, with like, SBA loans and for the salons. And then I needed things that were I think we were building like a front desk or something. And she was helping me build the front desk and we had our kids together. We just immediately started making making moves, taking action to help one another. And that was the that was the beginning, you know, the early days. Wow. So you you literally met bonded over failing businesses. Yes. But then what what would you say it was in both of you that you stopped looking at the failure and started going, how in the heck do we make this work? It just wasn't an option to to like have it fail because I was like a single widow mom of two. Wow. Met him on Bumble. And you know, I remember, I think I will, the girl has to message the guy first, which I hated. I was like, Oh, anyway, I messaged him like, you know, I had no idea at the time. I'm like, Hi, like, what's up? What are you doing? You know, like, totally didn't know how to talk. How's your business? Yeah, because I was like a workaholic. And that's like all I did was just work, work, work and travel and teach. And so then when all those things were like plucked away, it was like, Okay, I have to like be home. I have to be like, go to work. Like what? So anyway, we met and I had messaged him and he's like, Oh, I'm building an invisible business that nobody cares about. And I said, Oh, well, what is it? And then that's like how we started then he's like, Can I call you? And I was like, This is weird. Like, you know, but I also like, you know, both my kids were sleeping with me, you know, at night, and I was just, I had one under each arm. And I'm just kind of like texting them, like, Great, you want to call me like, when I'm going to talk to him right here, my kids? Yeah. So I like, got up and went in the other room, took his call and we talked for like two hours about like business life and just how to just how to like, what is he doing to get his business out of a hole and me too, and all of that. So it was really interesting because like, we both just kind of like, we met the next day. And then I'd say, I mean, we were for sure like, living together by the end of the year. Wow. And you know, he had a son from a previous relationship, I had two kids from my previous marriage. And it just like kind of, I don't know, everything just kind of like fit into place. Is that crazy to look back on and be like, like you kind of can't believe that happened and that it all worked out the way that it did? Not really. I think it was supposed to happen for us. It was like, it was just, it was such a, it was such a fit, you know, and like we both had kind of fizzling relationships that were kind of not moving anywhere. And then for me, like when I met her, I knew there was a lot of responsibility there because now there's an expanded potential family and there's young kids, you know, and then the absence of a dad, you know, so as all that kind of just was there, it wasn't there and it was there. I don't know, you could sense something there, you know, with us and what we're doing and it was immediate. There was an, I didn't know what to call it. There's a connection and electricity around her and I, just obviously her and I, you know, romantically, but also there's, there's a lot of things happening around us. Like we were responsible. She was responsible for her team. I had a team and we just had a lot we were doing. So it just kind of made sense. Okay. So I know there's going to be women who are listening like, okay, how did you go into that relationship? Like were you both doing personal development? Like there must have been a lot of things you guys had to like talk through, be able to talk about hard things really quickly. Where were you guys both like personal development wise and being able to have those hard conversations? Yeah. I mean, well, she had been through some things, you know, I've always been a super nerd with development and those was trying to become a version of the guy I am now and then to attract someone like her, you know, so I'd been geeking out on stuff like that for a long time and she had her own story, you know, so. Yeah. So I, like I said, I was a single widow mom of two kids. So the person that I was married to actually just had, we were building a house at the time and our contractor basically like there's leans coming onto the property left and right and the contractor basically stole all the money that we had. So it went from like having, you know, things to like having nothing overnight and then, you know, compile a brand new business to young kids. My son Evan was two and a half at the time. Kenzie was I think five and then the man I was married to tried to take my life and then took his. Oh my God. So it's like I'm processed. I mean, I by the time I met Drew, it had been almost about three years and so I had already like gone through grief share at my church multiple times. I've gone through like therapy and all that kind of stuff. And then, you know, really just kind of throwing myself into just taking care of my kids and working. Like I didn't really like make time for relationships. I didn't really care to have, you know, much of a relationship. I was just kind of like, okay, I need to, because at a certain point, like I had to work. I had to get my, you know, personal life back in order financially. The business always did well, but it was like my personal stuff. Like I had to like not let that interfere with the business thing that was going so well, because if both of them went down and be like, I mean, we lose everything. So I'd already gone through a lot of that. And then just my faith really like that allowed me to just keep going. And then when we met, it was very much like, I think my mom and just everyone was like, Rachel, like you need a date. You can't just like be alone forever, you know. And my mom's like, I think also my mom was like, well, if you met someone and you got married, then I wouldn't have babysit all the time. So I think it's part of that too. Yeah, your mom's like speeding it along. Yes. So like my mom was so happy to babysit while we like had, you know, our first probably, I don't know, 10 or so dates just to kind of like see if this is going to go anywhere. But we ended up, we were both building an online company at the same time. This is like, you know, in the beginning of COVID, like I launched my first round of coaching for salon owners in like January of 2020, not knowing everything that was going to go down. And then him too, he was building online fitness coaching company. And so we were both already doing that. And he was really good at like sales and marketing. I was really good at social media and organic. And so like when we met, it was kind of like we filled in each other's gaps in that sense. And then also of course, in like a personal sense, you know, him with Ollie and then me with Kenzie and Evan, and it just kind of just fit. It was weird. And everyone around us was like, you guys are moving like really quickly or like you just met him or all these outside, you know, things. But I just knew him. I got like, no, like this is what we're doing. You know, and we've never like allowed other and now everybody else like, you know, it's like, oh, wow, like, yeah, yeah, we're meant for each other. Yeah. So I don't, I don't feel like there's, I talk about this all the time with people. I don't, there's like no timeline specific anything. And there's no good way to get over something or amount of time that I believe that you should take this amount of time to get over this and do this. It's like, I just have heard way too many stories like this, where all of a sudden it's just there is, it's so clear to the both of you or a partnership or whatever that looks like. So I love hearing this and I hope that it's permission for people to not have to follow some sort of timeline or guideline of what a relationship should look like. So I would love for you to just catch everybody up on, you know, how you both kind of came together exactly what you're doing right now and how that all like started to look because it sounds like you then had let go of some of your fitness stuff to come into this business. There, yeah, there was a moment of that. So Jim did that for eight years sold that to an online, was it like a smaller personal training or a large box gym or what was it? It was, it was like, well, I was a small gym trying to be a big box gym. So I got into the CrossFit world and when that happened and I was, you know, always really into fitness. So fitness is like the best thing that's ever happened to me and the worst in regards to like business, but I wouldn't trade it because I learned to kind of cut my teeth by trying to build a gym. It's very, very, very difficult. Just the churn is just ridiculous. So you like you, you get three new, you get three new members and you're like, wow, great day and then four quit. You're like, wait a minute, I'm backwards now. So it's an emotional roller coaster. Yeah. So humans, they be humans. They be human and I had a gym years ago. So yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. brutal. So it took an online high ticket, got a high ticket space, learned how to do that. We were actually in Florida on a, she went with me to a mastermind and no one would want to go to like masterminds of being so, and she was like, I'm down, let's go. I love this free guys. We're out there. I did my first high ticket deal on the phone in Florida, not in my oven gym. You know, I'm going from $180 a month membership to now $2,000, you know, client. And anyway, that changed my, that everything pivoted right there. And I was like, I can do this. I can do a lot of this. I can scale this. I love hearing that the one domino for anybody listening, like sometimes just that one tip just makes you go, oh, this now becomes possible. I remember the night. I remember the room. I remember what the moon looked like. I remember everything, you know, because that was just like masterminds. Was that from joining a mastermind and being around those people learning about high ticket? Because I didn't know what high ticket was other than like personal training packages, you know, I didn't know like high ticket space. Yeah, I didn't know anything about that. Yeah, we did that. And then that started going well, worked my butt off. And with the administrative stuff, like she's so good at like deep details. And I'm really good with people and talking and doing that. And it just started going and the salons, everything started going at the same time. But early on, she was like, we need to like, we need to team up. And I was like, no, you got the salon, I got the fitness and we'll just do that. But we were just working with each other. I was helping her would do some sales stuff and she was helping me with my mess, you know, my admin email mess, you know, and then we were just going back and forth. She had a sales team. She had a sales team who wasn't selling nothing. And then she's like, I need you to help on this, you know, she'd been helping me. So I was like, okay, so I got on the phone and I would close a couple 18k deals, you know, and then I'm like, there's some there's some clients and then off they went and I went back into my fitness world, you know, and then, but there was a moment I'm like, what am I, what am I doing? I just, I just did two deals on the phone, walking around helping my wife when we weren't married yet. No, no, no, no, we're married yet. Yeah, right. And then, and then I go back into my fitness space. So in $2,000, $3,000, and it's really hard still, the volume was just crazy, you know, and then I'm talking and just all kinds of weirdos, you know. So I had a moment. I don't remember how this exactly went down, but I think I probably went to her. I'm like, we should, we should just team up. And she's like, what a great idea that you have. She's like, I'm so happy you finally came to that conclusion. So once that clicked for me, I was just, I was done with fitness and we went all into the beauty space. And then I took over all the marketing and took over all of the sales. And then I think we grew by like 600% or something while, because we could scale it because of her organization and her attention and knowing our client and then my ability to, you know, make, make content and produce marketing and meta and all the things and then actually do the deals, you know, you know, essentially like the client that we're trying to attract is like me from, you know, five years prior. So it was like, he already knew that person, you know, he's like living with that person. So, you know, also I will say, I think one of the things that was like, had him be resistant to us working together at first, I didn't really help that my business was called babes in business. And so he was just kind of like, I'm not having babes in business, XO is my email. I'm sorry, I'm just not. I'm like, but why? So obviously, like we rebranded, everything became like seven figure salon. And so we were helping salon owners, you know, with the same frameworks and everything that I had been doing, but like it basically became like more obtainable for other people. She had the slums crush in multi, multi, multi seven figures, you know, on that front. And then it just kind of all just, well, that's kind of how like the coaching demand began is like, I was teaching for a global hair extension company at the time, I was doing their education, I was like building their academy out. And I was meeting a lot of people like all around the country. And almost everybody after class, like I would be missing flights or like running to my flights, like, because, you know, I'm wanting to be valuable and I want to be there and answer questions. But I'm also like, I got to get home by midnight to like be there for my kids, you know, my mom's leaving. And so anyway, a lot of those, a lot of those questions, I was like, okay, they're all repetitive questions. These are, I feel like every person I'm talking to, it's like the same conversation I need to, I need to create, like, and I was sending free resources and stuff all the time, didn't have a funnel, didn't have any of that stuff set up. It was more just like, well, this is what I do. Here's what I do. Here's how I, here's my, you know, exact template. So I just started like, I would say in 2020, when we all had some time, I started just like really indexed, like all the templates, resources, everything, like making them, and then just like filing them away. And then just digitizing everything that I had. And so then when it came time to like be able to help people build their business and so forth, I already had that audience from teaching and then just relationships I'd built. And then we already had like all the other stuff, we just didn't know how to sell it. And that's kind of like where Drew was able to take it from, like, I was doing like 60k months by myself. And then we turn around and we're doing like close to 300k months. So it was just like crazy how, you know, and like nothing changed other than him being able to like work with me together, like us work together and build it together, you know. And for some people, like 60k months is like, oh, wow, that's amazing. But like, we weren't able to help as many people until Drew came in the scene because they just didn't know about it. And so now we help Saloniners like build their own brand of hair extensions too. And then we're getting into the retail game with like shampoo, conditioners and so forth. And now we're just helping them like basically get their cost of goods under control and have a product that, you know, their client can't get anywhere else. And so that's kind of how BYOB Build Your Own Brand became a thing. And that we launched, I guess it'll be two years in March that we built that company like completely from scratch together. And that's just been absolutely insane. Wow. Okay, so ladies, you need to look for someone with your opposite skill set on bubble. Yeah. So we can multiply whatever your business is. Totally. Okay, so let's go over everything because I want whoever's listening to know if they're like the perfect customer for this. So let's go through your offerings. It's so funny. I have literally had your hair that you've done on my head. We figured that out. Because I went and got my hair done at a salon. This was way before we were going to each other. We found out who was a client of hers. And I was like, this is absolutely insane. While I was in Wisconsin, like just randomly for a few months. So we'll shout out to Anna. We'll send her this podcast. Yeah. I thought that was such a crazy like connection there. But let's go through all of the things you do again. I know that you just said it, but to really share who is kind of that perfect person who would come into your world. And what do all the offerings look like? Yeah, that's, we call her our girl. So we're always looking for a girl. Because a lot of what we do doesn't make sense for everyone. Our goal is not to have everyone become a client. But when we find her, what we do just makes a ton of sense. So a salon professional, sweet owner, primarily a salon owner with a team, she comes in and launches her own line of luxury extensions and by luxury, I mean like a marketplace, not like a cute buzzword that the beauty industry uses, but an actual like high quality. And the client cannot get it anywhere else. So they got to have exclusivity. And they got to have the highest quality, you know, in the hair world, like the level four Remy stuff, you know, and most of what's out there is not that. So that's where we've made a space for ourselves is by offering that high, high quality. And then we only we don't distribute to customers. We only distribute through the brands that we've helped develop. They own everything. We're just really helpful distribution. Yeah, sorry, inventory is reserved for like the brands that we have helped build. And I see that's it. Because in the extension industry, like extension companies will literally sell to anyone, they'll sell to like you, they'll sell to me, they'll sell to my freaking grandma, like anyone. What happens is, is the product itself, like it basically robs the salon owner of profit that she could and should be making by allowing the client to get a wholesale product, a professionally only product at a wholesale rate. And so like, like sidestep the salon owner. Yeah, what's even worse is like a lot of big extension brands, they'll have like hair available to consumers. So they're, you know, B to C and they're also B to B. And they're also on their website list, the actual discount that the customer or that the the salon owner could get. So that now the customer knows that the salon owner gets a discount. So it's just like this, they're like getting their margins. Yeah, sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off, but they're getting like their margins like blasted. Yeah, all over the world. Yeah, so what we do is like, basically, we help build bespoke brands. And so they, they come in, we help them get their pricing straight. We help them, we do a full business analysis of their salon. They're always leaking money, like all over the place. And the girl that we help, like she is slammed behind the chair. She's super in high demand. She's really good at her craft. But she just literally can't slow down to work on the business because she feels like she's gonna either lose clients or lose money or both. And she's likely missing dinner with her family, missing out on things on the weekends with her kids, because she's just so busy. And that person right there is literally who I was. Like, so I know exactly who she is. I know exactly like what her day looks like. And that's the person that we basically are looking for. And that's the person like when we do meet them, they know like this is absolutely a no-brainer, like what we can help them do. And we can turn their business around like really fast. Yes, we're able to help them not based on like, there's a lot of people out there that are helping in like theory, you know, like there's like, and that's all good. Like you read a book, and then you learn something, and then you teach that. That's how I think about like teaching theory, valuable, you know, schools often like that, you know, so that they're teaching someone to swim without getting in a pool. Yeah, there's nothing bad about that. But that just kind of is what that is how we think about it, where what we teach them is like we've, we've physically done what they're looking to do and have dealt with that specific problem, times 100, you know, and we can actually give them, I always say it's like, like there's like a forest and like we've gone through that we've kind of gone through the forest and it's scary and it's hard and we've come back to get them. And it's like, hey, I know you can't see over there, but like follow me and we'll take you through. And they're like, well, what if it's not going to work? I'm like, I know you can't. We have a path. Yeah, yeah, I just beat down. There's a path over there, and there's some monkeys, and it's sketchy, you know. Yeah, I've actually black topped this particular path right over here Yeah, so you have to follow us and we got you, but we've been there, we came back and we're gonna, you know, it's kind of how I think about problems in that specific space. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help other retailers may claim to have experts but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you three ways to shop one perfect fit. Whether you want to DIY have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay no hidden fees and there's zero pressure from blackout and motorized options to classic shutters blinds.com has window treatments for every room style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The black friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout, limited time offer rules and restrictions apply see blinds.com for details. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about. But then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where aura frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys aura frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video just download the aura app and connect to Wi Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your aura frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting aura frames.com to get $35 off aura's best selling Carver Matt frames named number one by wire cutter by using promo code earn at checkout. That's a u r a frames dot com promo code earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout terms and conditions apply. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about from what customers see to what they don't see like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U. S. With over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www Northwest registered agent.com forward slash paid earn. So for that client, this person has found you and what does like onboarding look like? Meaning, you know, are they working with you through courses? Is it one on one? Is it is it group coaching? Do you go into their business? What does that all look like? So I think everybody has a different learning style. So the way that our programs and our mentorships work is everything. It's like, it's a group format. There's online learning and there's also one to one component. So the one to one is going to be like their lead coach who's doing the business assessment, doing the onboarding call, getting them registered for classes, like really helping them step into more of like a CEO role as opposed to just like, Hey, I signed up for this thing and I'm going to immediately be successful. I'm like, well, you got to do the thing. You can't just like register for something and not show up. Yeah. And I think a lot of times people like when we meet them, they have tried other things or they think they've tried other things, but they haven't really like applied the things or shown up. And so sometimes people can be like, like a lot of times, like it's funny in the beginning, some of these salon owners will like no show their onboarding call. I'm like, come on. I'm like, this is literally why you're joining in the first place. This is why you're stuck. This is why you're stuck. Yeah, right there. Exactly. So like, that's the main thing is just getting them to honor their word, getting them to actually like be on time. And then from there, like once they do that, we're really like helping personally develop them into being better leaders, better owners, and to stop just thinking like a hairstylist, like hairstylist thinking is great. It's like they're scrappy, you know, they can, they can do that, but you can't like approach your business like you would approach a color correction. Like you have to have a plan and you can't just kind of figure it out as you go. And so we'll do that. We'll do the business assessment, we'll get their pricing structured correctly. We'll actually like give them a like 20 plus page business plan of like, here are the things we're going to do right now. Here are the things we're going to like put a quirk in and do in six months. But that way they can like really prioritize the money moves now and get like quick wins and cash injections into their business. Once they do that, because they're they're very like, I mean, anyone these days is like instant gratification. Once they do that, they're like, Oh, wow, like those simple things worked. Once they see that they're like in, you know, we've had clients that we've worked with for years. And our community is awesome. Like we have salon owners all across the country. We have some other countries that we work with. And we have people that have gone to like every single event that we've hosted, every mastermind we've hosted. So the community is great. But like, we also make sure they have the online courses and the other stuff to dive into. If they're more of like a binge learner like I am, they want to like get in there and like, you know, consume everything in a week, they can do that too. Yeah, you're really turning them into true CEO CEOs and business owners. Like I have so many girlfriends who have either owned salons or worked in salons. And obviously I've been I've been getting hair extensions.  L-carnitine, L-carnitine, allowed you to scale as both CEOs and spouses together. We're giving very difficult things to uphold and problems to solve, and there's so many problems that's comical. It is ridiculous. But that's what we asked for, and that's what we got. I say we played for a full plate, and then we have to eat it. A lot of times when you pray for something, you think it's going to show up one way, and it's like so not. If you ask for a big life, you're going to have a lot of challenges, like 1,000%. I think a lot of people, it's one of those things like be careful what you wish for it, but you have, if you want a big life, you want to be able to have impact, you want to be able to help other people. A lot of times that looks like you going through more pain than other people, and being able to just get back up and keep going. I would say another thing that really helps us work together is we don't interfere with each other's strengths. I know what Drew's really good at, he knows what I'm really good at, and we've both just understood if we're going to divide and conquer, we can't just be intercepting back into each other's lanes, and he trusts me to make decisions on the fulfillment and operation side, and then on the sales marketing side, I know what's going on, but I don't get involved in trying to figure out. That took me a hot second to learn in the beginning. What's really helped is actually dividing time where I'm physically not in my husband's stuff anymore, because in the beginning what was happening is we'd be on meetings together where you're still hearing about each other's stuff and the ideas that are going out, and then it was very hard for me not to weigh in on what I thought. I would say that was one of our biggest struggles in the beginning was the realization of let them take it and fully respect them and know, even if it's not the way that you would do it. It probably won't be. Yeah, it's going to be different, right? Sometimes you're going to be like, that was dumb. Yeah, that's a really dumb way to do it. You can just do it this way. But that is such a, it fully just kind of oversteps them, and it becomes such a thing between husband and wife, men and women, partners like that you just don't feel that mutual respect, and I feel like that's where it can break a lot is when you just don't respect the other person's decisions, like no matter if they're the ones that you want or not. Right. So you often say, simplify to multiply. What does that look like practically when it comes to building and running multiple brands? So it's hard because like, you know, we're both in our own individual masterminds that and that's another thing too. Like you've joined them separately for your own education. Okay. We're constantly like he's another masterminds, I'm another masterminds, and then we're masterminds together. Yep. So and we usually are just in like one at a time, like we're not like spread across multiples. But the reason that I like that is because I have my own learning journey and my own way of learning. And so does he. So where I'm, you know, where I learn one way, he learns a different way. And then a lot of the time too, as we like, you know, are learning things independently, we bring our own like version translated version of that back, you know, it's just sparks ideas, like my ideas I get are different than the ideas he gets. And then from there, we can like, together brainstorm and mastermind together and then birds, whatever that version of what we learned is. And so a lot of times with him, he likes to talk things out and like he learns something and he has to tell me about it. And I, you know, hear it out loud, where like, I'm not like that, I can just like learn something and I'll just like independently work on it. So you've had to kind of learn how to, okay, he's not, he's not asking me to create a task list to make that thing real. He just wants to talk about it. So yeah, he like teach it. If I could teach you, I understand it. And you talk it out. I talk much better than I write. That's actually, I'm listening to a book right now. It actually helps a lot of people, more people than not to that's how they learn it is to like reteach it and retalk it. And then she can she can just go super deep and like do that. And then she's awesome. Then I envy that. Yeah, I like that. Because I can, and for me, the more inputs, the better. So like I fly helicopters and I've recently got into that and aviation and love that. I actually want to do that. They're wild. There's so many, that thing does not want to go straight. So there's so many things, you know, there's so many things physically happening that you have to deal with and then you have to control all multiple planes of movement. And I just, I love it. Like I get it, you know, and it is chaos, but I got it, you know, and then I can be talked to and I can be taught things and I'm controlling this machine and I'm thinking about checking everything and listening to the weather and talking to the traffic. And like, and then while you're doing all this, oh, by the way, you got to call in and say you're five miles south as you approach the airport. And I'm like, I'm on it. He's like, you did that really good. Like I can talk, you know, I can do this and speak. But like, I'll have to go into the book soon. And then I'll have to like really, I can do it, but it doesn't come as naturally to me as like a bunch of inputs and like go. I think being in it, I think for like this simplifying part of it is like how we do that is like, we'll learn things independently and share the ideas, but then we both have the discernment to know like what parts of that feel right for us to put into our business. Because we've been in masterminds where they're like, you know, stop trying to increase your LTV, like just, just focus on new, new, new. And I'm like, that doesn't feel right to me. Like, but isn't like, why would I want to keep adding new people when I could just like work with these people for a longer period of time, help them be more successful and get them to order more, you know, of hair extensions or whatever it is, why continually like it, new, new, new. And so like it's hard because sometimes in masterminds, like, you know, I think, I think the ego can get in the way where you're like, yeah, we want to build a big sales team or yeah, I want to do this. And at the end of the day, like we've done that. And it just, I would say, caused us way more stress and chaos and headaches than, than just simplifying things and doing things the way that, that we've realized that work better. And then just like doubling down on what actually works instead of like trying to look cool or do bigger, have a bigger operation because it looks cool, but then your margins are like less totally. It's like such a waste of time. I think a lot of people don't understand that. So easy. Even I get caught up in it. So easy online now, everyone's just thrown out, I made this, I do this, this is what my year is. And I'm like, who's on the team? Yeah, how, what are you, what are your ads? Yeah, how much have you spent? Like all of those things because I used to get so caught up. I'm like, she made 20 million this year. And then I'm like, Oh yeah, but she has a team of, you know, 35 and their ad spend is X. And so it really is like exactly 22 million. Yeah, you, you literally have that's 22 million. We're in the negative. Marking joke. Exactly. But they get to put that out there. So it's really understanding like, I love that you have done all of that as well. When you go into these different businesses, because it's really asking the business owner, what type of business do you want? Like I think that's so huge. And you know, my husband and I are in different masterminds as well. And I get in different rooms and it is one of the big things is it's very easy to get overwhelmed and like you're drinking from a fire hose and you want to do all those big things, but then realistically knowing thyself and knowing how you guys work. So how would you say to like a more beginner person to figure that out when everything just feels, you know, like big and shiny and new when you're coming into like a mastermind or learning or listening to podcasts? Man, that's a great question. Yeah, I think you had to just pick like the first thing that came to mind is like, you just have to pick what's going to make the biggest impact for you. Like what's going to solve the most problems that you're having right now and then pick that thing. Because yeah, you might have this like bouquet of options that you want to do or should do. But you know, if you what I see a lot, especially in entrepreneurs is like, it's always exciting at that dopamine hit when you like start something new, but then you don't finish it. So then you will start this other thing new and then you don't finish that, you know, so a lot of people are in the industry or just any industry really starting a bunch of stuff, but then not finishing and they never really get to give that idea full a full go. And so just picking the thing is going to make the right impact. And then just earmarking those things that you like want to do, but they're not a priority right now. Yeah, you said she said something really good. That's that's what we do. Yes, we want money is all a part of it and money is only a part of it because that's just what humans have decided to it's it's people talking to each other, trade money for products and services. Like that's like the whole economy. You know, so that always that's always happening everywhere all the time constantly. So instead of like, I'm going to get in there and make as many transactions as like, how can we make the most impact with our clients and the money is a byproduct like you got to have all your pricing and your numbers and your margins in order and have all that correct. But if we can go make an impact with with the people that we're looking to serve, the money grows, you know, so rather than chasing the bag, you know, that's a byproduct. It's like it's like our little kids when they're playing football, it's like the leadership of that coach and that team, the communication is where they need to focus not the score because the score is the byproduct of what's happening over in the game. You know, so we're trying to be in the game and drive impact for the humans that we're that we work with and then the money just works. Totally. It's the result. Okay, so you guys are building what you call a full beauty empire. So instead of just one salon or just sticking to business coaching, what was the turning point that shifted your strategy from just being salon owners to multi company founders? The main thing I think is like, it was kind of like this thing we didn't anticipate people wanting to like work with us longer than just one time. So we was like, okay, cool, like we help them fix their business, their businesses, you know, 2024% profit amazing. They have two days behind the chair the rest of the time they can enjoy with their family and running their business remotely. So like that was like a huge win right there. Yeah. But then they were like, okay, so like, what else do you guys have? Like, what else can I do? What else can you help me do? Pardon? And yeah, give us five minutes. Well, the thing was like stuff that we were it was stuff that we were doing like already did, but we just hadn't shared with anybody and systematized it like you had systematized the other things. Exactly. Yeah. So it was more like like we had started our own hair extension brand. And it was just inside of our salon. And because I was working for a global brand at the time, I didn't like, I didn't tell anybody about it. Because I just was I just started with five colors. I just wanted to have five colors that I didn't have to reroute every appointment or low light or highlight to get the color back to where it was because the quality of the product started changing. It looked the same, but it didn't perform the same. And because I was so deep in with the brand I was working with, I was like, I can't like tell people this, like everyone in this company here is going to hate my guts. And they still kind of do. But um, well, not everybody, that's the cost, not everybody, but the owners, but all the everybody else, like they they understood why we did it. So like doing that, it was just like, okay, I when we launched it, which was at our March mastermind, like almost two years ago, I was like, I hope maybe like five people want to build their brand. Well, like the entire room stood up. We did a dope launch, though, like we did it like full stage. Yeah. But like we did it how you do a lunch. Yeah, it was cool. But it was like, I just hope five people want to build their brand. Like, you know, the time. Yeah, the production was amazing. Real dramatic. But we didn't have enough inventory to do more than that. Like, we like, we started like very small, we're like bootstrapped all of our own growth. So when we launched, did we have that shitty little? Yeah, we had those crappy little cards and containers. Big launch and then these crappy little carts. I'm talking like just a little like the craft right like what you put like craft supplies and like, yeah, yeah. So that's like a child. Yeah. Yeah. And we were like, we had like maybe a few packs of everything. And then we sold out, like, and then it became a thing like shit, now we can't now they want more, we don't have more than you're gonna get more, you know, like you're like, when you when you launch something, I think we underestimated like how great it would have how great it really went. And then I think we severely underestimated like how long all of these people would be working with us. And so we really like started helping them create their brand. And then now that they're making more money, they're like, well, what do I do with it? Now I have to pay taxes on it or have to go invest it. Like how do you guys do investments? Then we started like, okay, well, I guess we need to teach them how we do investments. And so it was just like this natural progression of like what we do. It wasn't hard to teach because we already do it. And we're like, you know, it's like normal for us. But to be able to help them do it too. And that's really what they were wanting is just like, what do you guys like, how do you guys do what you do? And so that's just kind of how it happened. A lot of the people that are in our in our communities, they're, they're married, they have kids or they want to have kids. And, you know, they all have teams, they all have people counting on them, you know, to make it work and be successful. And so it was just like a very natural fit for all of the different things that we could show them how to do. And so we have a program called CEO club, which is just like our private mastermind, we don't like post it on Instagram or anything. But like, it's more of a back end mastermind, like in our programs, invitation kind of thing. Yeah. So like anybody that's doing, you know, a million or more, like that's the mastermind that they could be a part of. And so we teach them how to do like tax free strategy, be able to do investments, really like, like giving them like executive assistant playbooks, nanny playbooks, like all the different stuff to just make their life easier. Yeah, we're not so much focusing on like the salon anymore in that program, we're more so focusing on like, how do you run multiple businesses without like killing each other. So, um, so like, you know, just depending on where people are at in their business journey, like we, we a thousand percent have a place that like we could guide them to, you know, and then the next thing is like, well, what's next? Not everybody wants to go all the way, you know, down that path. Some people want to like take a take a breather and pause and enjoy that for a few years. But like we have people that have been in programs with us and then they circle back two years later or a year later, you know, and they're like, okay, I'm ready to do the next thing. So us doing all that stuff, it could just kind of naturally fit. We didn't really like plan on building multiple companies together. It was more so just like, we want to help the salon owner create multiple income streams. Just evolve that way. Yeah. Well, the problems kept clearly coming up that were the same problems over and over again. So for, for the entrepreneurs that are listening, I think a lot of people struggle with something that it sounds like you're really good at. So you have identified the main problems. How do you guys take the time and create like, what does it look like? If someone's listening right now who's like, oh, I get that problem all the time, I would love to solve that. What does that creative process look like to create something? Like, do you go, hey, this week, let's set aside time to solve this problem for this business owner so that now you just said you've kind of got like a full suite that covers pretty much every problem that's coming up. How do you guys take that? What does that process look like to create that? I think it starts with like responsibility. So it starts with rather than early on in the days when something happened to the business, we kind of get very blamey. Oh, it's the economy, it's this, it's that, it's this person, this person. I think in the beginning, we took responsibility for the problem. It's like, okay, that person did that. We hired that person. That is on us. So that allows us to actually have a stable ground to begin to develop. Is it a hiring process? Like, let's go through that. And then we would go really from the bottom up or top down, whatever, you know, and get to the root of the issue and solve the problem rather than the symptoms of the problem. So are problems create symptoms? You know, are we solving symptoms? Or is there a problem that's causing those symptoms? And we really have to discuss it and understand what's happening. And then once you can understand what's happening, we actually solve it rather than because if you try to solve all the symptoms, it won't solve the problem. Then it's just a chit show, you know, nothing, nothing moves. But when you solve the problem, the actual problem that I think of it like a water, like a water hose, it's like the water hose unkeeks and then it's like, then you see growth. And this, this was like a mythological idea to me for a long time until we began to do that. We actually were solving the problems, not the symptoms, you know, and it started with like responsibility. So that's kind of the general way we do that. And then Rachel will go and like, you probably go into like the tactical and go deeper into the tactical. Well, I'll be like a thousand feet deep on like the problem and like figuring out, okay, from, from the owner point of view, like, what's that experience like from the client point of view, what's that experience like in a team? Because a lot of times like the client is going to go take this system or whatever it is back to the team. So then like, how can we make the system, the process, whatever it is, like the simplest that way that person doesn't fuck it up because sometimes that could happen where it's like, it can't be like this super complex system or process. Like it has to be simple. It has to be easily explainable because I need this owner to understand it so well that she can go teach it. And then that person doesn't forget 50% of what she just learned. Totally. So you like know it and understand it. So my Google drive is like very elaborate, very organized, but I have like all the different processes and things like all laid out. And then if there, I mean, we allow our clients to like basically submit ideas, like if they're like, Hey, I'm having this problem, or if I see something like on a recurring basis coming up, like I'll go on my own and just make a resource for that thing. Even if like, it's not a common problem for me or my business, you know, three or more people in the community are having that that come up, like I want to get ahead of it and like be able to give them something. And like what we do is so identifying the problem and making sure that we're not going 100 feet deep on a symptom, you know, so making sure she doesn't go way down deep and start building things for a system. And then it won't work. Like we've been able to identify that. And so it starts there. And then once we identify the problem and develop the tactical, the document or the overview of the system itself, like the checklist or whatever that system is going to be, we make that and then that will go on to a calendar and that calendar will go into two people and will hold the people responsible for said process. So our cam guy, Josh, as he's editing, it's this many units a week, it is here the shoot days. Here's what you need to do at the end of the day. Here are the here's the weekly production meetings that we have that sitting on and like the whole production crews on. And then we go over the numbers, we go over just kind of state of like what's going on, like this is the this our content suck is it good, like what's how do we how the ads doing how the this and that. And then we go and implement and deploy actions. And then we research the KPI. And then next week, it just it goes again. So I think problem, tactical checklist or documentation on like what you're going to do to to continuously mold the problem that you're trying to work on and then calendar people. You know, I think that's how it completes the loop of that. I think a lot of people will like create a like a they'll create something to fix the problem, but then they just like never check in and see how it's going. Yeah, I've been guilty of that before. I'm not a super systematized person. And I'm working so hard on it. But it's it's like sticking to you created it. Now you must go back to it weekly and hold people accountable. We kind of have this thing we do. It's like, I do we do you do so like, I'll do something or I'll explain something. And then I'll do it with that person. And then I'll let them do it. So that way make sure that they got it. Because a lot of times it was just like, I do we do. And that was the end of it. And then like, adding the, you know, you do part of it, like that actually made sure that, okay, now that thing lives with that person. And like, they got it, you know, and also just asking the team, like, do you got it? Or do you have questions, you know, and then just like supporting them around that filled them if they have questions, like quite all questions are good questions. Totally, you know, and then just making sure that like, you're available, you know, you're not like too busy to check in on that person. Yeah, which is the calendar for us. If they come to us between the set time, then it gets, it's, yeah, so you calendar and time for that specifically already. Okay, so for entrepreneurs who want to build real wealth beyond their business, what would you say are the first steps towards thinking like an owner instead of an operator? 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stopped thinking about that big idea. And you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store, choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in to create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you, handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm going to share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bralette connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle bralette and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting it anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery. It's soft. It's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn you're happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations, effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. What would you say are the first steps towards thinking like an owner instead of an operator? You got to make sure that you're trading your business like a business. Like you can love your people. Like I laugh, I have fun, I like have a great time with my teams. But at the end of the day, like it's my responsibility to make sure that business is profitable. And like that right there is like the main focus is not getting everyone not operating just to get everybody to like you and getting everyone to stay because not everyone's gonna like you and not everyone's gonna stay. But getting your business profitable so that you can actually build wealth through your business. Your business is just a income source. That's it. It's an income stream. I think every entrepreneur or every business owner who aspires to be wealthy needs to have multiple streams of income. Because that way you have like something to fall back on if that one thing isn't going well. And so like even as like we don't have just one income stream and I don't really know if I ever have like since I became an entrepreneur, like I've always wanted to have at least two or three.  naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, ni figure out what's your main money maker and like how can you get that thing scaled as quickly as possible You know to where you can then you know either keep it as an income stream sell it for multiple You know but if you're an entrepreneur you're gonna go make something else you're gonna go do something else like don't I never really don't think we're gonna like just you know retire and go live by the beach somewhere and don't work like I I can't even take a bath. I just get so bored. I have no idea. I'm just like, can this be over yet? But you just have to figure out what's the thing that's going to get you where you want to go and not be afraid to pull the plug on something if it's just not possible or you can't give your energy to it. That's sometimes hard. Having that going on but also understanding financial structures, understanding your policies and understanding ways to hold money and move money legally and do all that. That's a whole multi-day thing if you're looking to learn it. I think understanding how these things work and then the right types of accounts to start to move money into, that way you can keep your money, move your money and turn it into more money but also not get, not tricked, but what we're told to do with your money is typically incorrect. We had to figure this out on our own through mistakes. We've got our family bank all in place and all these types of things but we didn't get it right the first time. We've started multiple accounts and put money into these accounts that were not the right types of accounts to do what we wanted to do but we would just keep going and then we figured it out and built a really sophisticated family banking system for our kids and ourselves and we had to learn all that. That stuff takes so much time and it's so layered. A lot of times the money has come in and then you're like, oh shit, what on earth am I supposed to be doing? It is mind blowing all the different things that you can do with money, all the different things that wealthy people do to grow their money. That was one of the most eye-opening things for Chris and I when we, at a young age, our network marketing company really took off and we just were like, what on earth do you do? Thankfully we had someone that we were connected to who taught us, sounds like you're helping teach a lot of people which is mind blowing if you don't know what to do with that cash because you're losing a lot of it then. There's so much that you could be keeping or investing that people don't know at all, that you've never even heard of you guys. People try to take it from you. Totally, for sure. You don't protect it. You also have an event, you have a podcast. Tell me a little bit about those. Our podcast is called Brand Talk with Rachel Nindru. We get together every Thursday and we have either Rachel will plan a whole thing. We'll do that and she'll give me a documentation. I feel like did you go over it? He glances at it. He's like, yeah, I read it. Then the next episode will be just nothing and we'll just talk. Those are typically pretty good. People do want the tactical. They're giving me some juicy business stuff and then she knows what the girls want. Typically, we have a very large female based audience and then we'll do that. Then I want to make sure that they get to know us and then we'll just goof off for an episode. Our whole world is kids in business, hobbies and stuff like that. Drew has more hobbies than me, for sure. Every time he starts a hobby, I'm like, here we go again. I'm playing helicopter, flying helicopters, jiu-jitsu, fitness. It's funny, we were doing this family interview for our son. They get into the same school that his sister goes to. They asked both of us, so what are y'all's hobbies? Well, and Drew immediately, he's like, well, and he starts talking about all his hobbies, like listening to jiu-jitsu, I fly helicopters, I work out a lot, I'm learning Spanish. He has all these things. And then like, Rachel, what do you like to do in your spare time? And I'm like, shit, systematize our lives. I like to build documentation. No. And then I go, I like to decorate things, I think. And then Drew just starts laughing and I'm like, I need to get some hobbies. Because a lot of times I'll make my hobby becomes like a business, you know, which is like, I don't need to do that all the time. I'm the same. Yeah. We could do this. I'm going to teach people this. I know. It's like some of those things just need to be mine, you know, totally. But yeah, Soloncon, we've got an event coming up. We're excited to have you there. I'm so excited to be there. It's going to be in Miami in January. So January 24th through the 27th. And it's going to be at the Man in Windwood event, which is like this awesome convention center, so we're excited about that. And our events just keep, they just keep doubling in size. So like, this was, this is the first time we're doing an added convention center. We have normally done like cute hotels, but you know, this is for sure like going to be our biggest Soloncon event yet. I'm excited about it because, you know, it's for the whole Solon team. It's not, you should go to that. Yeah. It's not just for like the owner. Okay. It's for them. It's for their spouse. It's for their manager, their front desk person. It's for their A players. Okay. You know, I always tell people like leave your blast and cruise players at home, like leaving my home. Yeah. But bring your A players because like all those stylists that want to become educators, they want to teach classes. They want to start teaching classes for this owner's extension brand. Like that is like now you can create by learning these different things is like you can create other income streams for your stylist. That's how you get stylists to say. It's also a forced stylist that they want to know like how to level that. Like what's the next, like what does the industry, what's the state of the industry? You know, except we're talking to, oh boy, thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of Solon owners over the last years personally. You know, like we really have our ear to ear. The ground and what's going on out there for sure. Very much so, which is vital because so many people don't realize how behind they are in so many things. And again, how many new opportunities there are to make money that I know that you guys have for people. Yeah. It's really hard to tell someone they're behind without being like, you know, like you don't want to tell them, you know, you don't want to be rude or anything, but there's this, there's folks that are behind the curve on certain things in the northeast part of the country primarily. Look, I'm from the Midwest. I can go back and be like, y'all are way behind. What is it? Get on here. You guys, nobody's doing this anymore and here's why, you know. But there are people in those towns that are, I'll talk to them, they're like, no one's doing this because everyone's afraid to do anything different. And they want a different result. You're gonna have to do something different. More than have like a limiting belief of like what they can earn. Primarily money. Where they're at. And that's one of the biggest things I see. If I had a nickel. And I hear is like small town mindset. Yeah. A thousand percent. Like there are people out there that are paying X amount of dollars for that same thing and you're charging 25 bucks. Like I don't get it, you know, but like helping people see their own work. I think it's important too. And I think that's a lot of like what we do is like helping them see their own potential and like the potential that is inside their business. So that's what salon cons for is like the person that values beauty and brains. It's not like this. There's so many like party. There's so many events in the industry that everybody just gets shit faced at. And it's in just you guys. The end of one and spoke and my speaking thing was at the end and everyone was just drunk or gone. Yeah. And I travel like it was like a big thing. And they're like a thousand people. I think I had 25 people in the room of a thousand. Wow. It was crazy. Well, because then people are hung over and they don't show up for sessions. It's just a disaster. So like we don't. That's not what our events are like. Like everybody's there. They're learning. They're developing. They're they're learning either maybe mindset stuff to like be able to charge more earn more, provide more. They're learning hands on extension trainings. The owners are there learning how to literally like build family banking out. Like that's just stuff that nobody teaches in the industry. Like nobody. And so like depending on what they're there to learn, like there are classes for everybody in the team. So salon con happens once a year. We have other events that we do. We have a power couple event that we do once a year. We have a babes in business mastermind that we do once a year. Those are a lot smaller, like 50 people. But, you know, it's just like based on where everybody's at. Like I don't think everybody should go to a power couple event or everybody should go to this other event. But I think based on where they're at, like there's something for mostly everybody. I'd say trying to arrange a helicopter entrance for us. It's long. I think that's great. I waste money. See, I know. We just had helicopters at our mastermind. It was wonderful. They're the coolest thing ever. I'm like, Drew, that's too flashy. Don't do that. It's not. We just took a modest little, modest little helicopter. Nothing crazy. I want them still to be flying it while you come down. Yeah. From the helicopter. Yes. Yes. He's like, yes, I see this. Very good. We have two pilots. I would bring it in and then he could just hold there for a second just to make it dramatic. This is what salon girls want. Yeah. No, it's not. Here it is. I can say, you know, from somebody truly like I feel like I've gotten to see what you guys have done, which is so crazy to be able to say because, you know, when I'm from the Midwest originally and it is where Anna is, is it's tough with the mindset there. Like I left when I was in fitness and wanting to compete and I wanted to be on covers and I wanted to start my own gym. I left because everyone was like, why? How? You think you could do that? You're going to charge how much you want? What kind of life? And it was very, it was, yeah, it was such a challenging place to live and try to grow a business, especially as a female. And when I was looking for someone to do my hair, I literally can't remember how I found her, but I'm like, whoa, this salon seems like very high end for a small town. What is going on? And so I went. Got booked with her because I had like kind of said that I wanted to go there and I had messaged and whatever said a couple things about like, I would really love to like chat with the salon owner or work with the salon owner. And she ended up doing my hair and we ended up talking all about business. And I don't think she was, had been able to talk to other women about business. Right. You know, for a while. And I was like, whoa, like she really had her shit together. She's great. And her salon was running really well. I was like, this is crazy for here. Like I was just, it was such a standout for the area. And so now that I also get to see, oh, wow, like what she's gotten to learn and work with and the mindset piece was really huge because I knew that she had to do a lot of work. Yeah. She's a very, very current her husband and their daughter. I mean, it's amazing. And just to see like what she's doing and everything is great. She's a great leader for her. So to be able to see that in a small town though, and to be able to have such a successful business charging way more than the area is used to and still be so successful and still be full of clientele. Like I just want people to hear that who are thinking, oh, well, I don't know if that's possible for me. Like this is small town America. This is definitely where people do not want to pay a lot. They'll tell you that that's not going to work and it's still worked and she's doing incredible. So let's like to assume that no one in that town is has any has any type of success, you know, they're there and they want, they want the best. They want the best. Yeah. And they will pay for it and they're looking and then the business owners are like, oh, that's not me and they won't go there. They'll go to the girl who's like, that's me. I am the best. This is where you will find the top quality, the top services. I am the best. You know, and I charge for it. We also know, like, you know, no matter what town you're in, there are those people, especially if it's like, you know, the, the, I knew there had to be somebody at that point because the Packers. Yes. There and they're, I'm like, there's Packer wives. Who do they go to? Right. That's really what I looked for. I'm like, where are these 12 women go? I think that's how I ended up finding it. I don't know. That's awesome. I think for the person that like is, you know, is doing that and is going to go out there and like, say, Hey, like, this is what we do here. Like it takes a lot of boldness, a lot of confidence and like pep talking yourself to like get to that point where you're like, okay, no one's doing this, but I know, my God, like this is what I need to do. And this is like how I have to show up. And, you know, that, of course, people are going to talk about you. I'm sure like people are going to talk about you. If you're doing something different than ever. No matter what, but there's always somebody out there, like who's going to be able to see that and it immediately draws them to you. Yeah. And it becoming the best in the world at what you do. And like genuinely being, being that like you're actually that and you really are that. It's the obvious choice. You have the, you have, you just have it. You have that thing and they're like, what's that thing? It's like being absolutely excellent. Like everything is excellent. And, um, that was what I didn't quite get. I tried to do that in my gym. You know, my, my heart was there, but I wasn't that, you know, and there's people doing much better. But when you are the best in the area, no matter what you do, and you're the best at your marketing, you're the best at email campaigns and conversions, and you're the best at creating content. And you're best with people and you're best at staying organized and you're best at hair or whatever your thing is. You're just the best. You'll, you'll crush it. I also want to say as a couple, it's, it's so beautiful to watch that, you know, you had said, I wasn't the best at my gym, but you took what you're best at and saw how that could make what you're doing now the best. So it does take a bit of like stepping out of your ego and going, okay, I'm not great over here. Who is great over here? Or how could I partner in my business with somebody? Or who's got the skill set that I don't have? Cause I think there's a lot of people who aren't willing to be like, let's be honest, like I suck at organization. Like I hire people based off of like, are you organized? But how organized? You know what I mean? So I think that that's huge that you guys both like really like own your lanes. You know what you're good at. You know what you're not good at. You're not going to spend a lot of time in this stuff. You're not great at, you're going to go hire someone or you're going to try to be more, you're going to try to learn more about that thing to make up for your skill set. So I love that the both of you seem like you've really just like gotten into your zones of genius and hired the rest out. So yeah, thank you. Yeah. Thank you. What is something that you want to leave with everybody? I think the thing that comes to mind for me is like, doesn't matter like what you've gone through and like what, like everybody goes through pain. Everybody goes through problems. You know, you're going to have people that are very close to you that betray you, but like you can't allow that to like knock you down, like in, and not just not show up like who you truly are. And so for me, like especially going through the traumatic stuff that I went through and like becoming a widowed single mom overnight and like having to completely rewrite my life and like completely redo everything that I thought my life was going to be like, you're stronger than you think really. And obviously for me, my faith has been the huge factor as to how my life has been able to look the way that it does now and feel the way that it feels now. And I think a lot of times out there, you can see people that look successful or see people that, you know, it's like this illusion and really their marriage is falling apart, their businesses are not profitable. They could potentially hate each other. I mean, like, you know, with Instagram, objects are not always what they seem, you know, so for us, like it's, we prioritize our marriage first. We prioritize our, you know, our faiths, our family. And like as long as those three things are in, are in like, are good, like, doesn't matter if we're winning at business, losing at business, like we are going to be AOK, you know, and we could always, if we lost, we always say, like, if we lost everything tomorrow, like we would just rebuild. Yep. And we know that because we would rebuild together. Yeah. And I would say, I would say, um, dream bigger, you know, like if you, if you would have told me 10 years ago, we would be where we're at doing what we're doing. And I'm flying helicopters and we're doing, you know, we're scaling a nine figure company, you know, like that'll happen in a while. You know, so I would have never have thought in a million years. And you hear people say this, this is cool. You know, I've heard people say this when I was trying to figure it out and like, shut up, like nonsense. But you, your, your dreams have to be so big that you can harness a team's has their goals can live inside of your dream. And who do you got to become to facilitate that? You know, because you'll, if you can, if you can be clear on what you want to do by impacting people, I say the world, the world's made of people. So it's people. Um, and then you can keep that in your, in your crosshairs and you can keep moving towards it and then just be relentless in the pursuit of this crazy, crazy goal, like you'll, you'll get there. Do you guys still feel freaked out sometimes? And how do you deal with that freaked out? How so by the, by the big dream? Like, have you ever just taken really big leaps and been like, oh damn, we go over and over and over and over and over and over again. I'm over here saying no. She's like, no, I don't really get scared of anything because I just know like, okay, well, like it feels right to do it. You know what I mean? I always say this too. Like if we have clients that are like, oh my gosh, I'm so nervous. I'm like, are you nervous? Or is it really just excitement? Should be, you know, because like if you're not, you know, if you're not risking anything, like, you know, where there's risk, there is also reward. But if you don't risk, there's probably not a big reward whatsoever. You got to risk it for the best. Yeah, really. Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. And it's, it's more suitable now. Like we can, we can plan better. Like we can see the numbers work better. But earlier on it was, it was, I felt like every other, and this probably is me freaking out and we're just like, yeah, we're good. You know, I'm like, how should we figure it out? I'm like, I got to figure that out. You know, like we don't have to figure that out. I got to figure that part out. That's my part, you know? Yeah. And, uh, and, um, we did, you know, but it was always just like, I remember we did our first little event in Cabo and it was just like, oh my gosh, like we're doing this. And then we did another one and you got to pay crazy deposits on these things. And our first event, when we launched this thing, like we had to spend hundreds and hundreds of thousands and we were getting hustled by the Marriott. They were just smoking us on, on fees that now we know you don't have to pay. Yeah. I'm like, what for what? You're going to watch us load in for 7000. No. And then now we're just like, no, not to paint that. I think with every, like every, let's say mistake you make or every like issue that you come across and you get on the other side of it, you're smarter and wiser. And you know, now when we plan events, we're like, okay, like, we know we were coming into the conversation, like more seasoned than the last one. You know, we're always learning, always learning. And I think for people to like, just to not lose yourself in the process of becoming successful, like always stay true to who you are. And like I, like, you know, if he wants to enter Solon Con and that's just drew, like he just wants to like do that, like just as a guy, you know, it's not like he doesn't give a shit. What other people think about him is just like for himself, like that would make his own day. But like, I see a lot of people online that just like, they flaunt a bunch of stuff they like, you know, they're doing all that stuff, but they're like, absolutely not impressing anyone in the process. They're just like becoming more unrelatable by the second. And I think that's why I think people with like, you know, people with like millions and millions of followers, like I personally feel like I like my smaller audience because I feel like I'm very relatable to them. And, uh, and drew too, just because you just don't want to be like, just don't want to be like so just far from where you once were. I think you're allowed to evolve for sure. But like, as far as like your values, your morals, like who you are, like keeping all that stuff, like tightly close to you. So that way, you know, when you look back at your younger self, you can, you can still see yourself, but like you're just like the big sister version. Now. So where can we get more of you guys? I know that you do live trainings every Monday. And this is for the person who wants to pretty much do everything that we have chatted about. That's kind of a great entry point for them. So is, would they follow you first on Instagram? What does that look like? Or I can also put a link in the show notes. Yeah, definitely. I think give us a follow on Instagram just to keep an eye on what we got going on Rachel Pajik. So in mine is Imdra Thomas, Michael Drew Thomas. And then we do a live training. Yeah, we do a, a. Blueprint training. Yeah, we do a blueprint build their business and their brand or both. You know, some people are like, they've got a great business and they just want to build their brand of extensions or retail. Perfect. Some people, they want to build their own brand, but they just don't have the cash flow to like do that. So we want to focus on the business first and then build the brand after the fact. But yeah, I think that's a great place for people to just meet us, like in real life, like meet us and ask questions. We have a ton of free resources as well. So like just following us on Instagram and see what we got going on. It's probably probably the best thing for sure. And we'll be doing the lot. This panel in this air is, I believe the following Monday will be doing a blueprint live. Okay. So they can, they can register for that. Um, they'll get some reminders and then we'll be, we'll be live and then we can answer their questions and then just kind of show them a little bit behind the, behind the curtain. Okay. Amazing. Well, thank you guys so much for coming on. This was so fun. Thanks for always. I mean, I have a podcast because I love learning. So thanks for teaching me some, some good stuff today too. Yeah. Thanks for having us. Yeah.

=== FILE: Get Better Sleep, Lower Stress & Feel Incredible Without Extreme Dieting with Jennifer Hanway Part 2 [3lm-LGbMyGI].txt ===

 when I am not feeling good or I eat a lot or I'm in a, you know, maybe I've been drinking too much, it's almost like I'm not feeling connected spiritually anymore. Universe, God, consciousness, whatever we're calling it, it's not going to give you opportunities if you're not ready for them. I think it's a give-and-take relationship of you do everything that you can to get ready, and so when the opportunity arrives, you're then ready for it, but if you're not ready for it, why is the universe going to give it to you in the first place? I want to dig into sleep for just a hot second because, you know, I have a friend who literally has been trying so many different things for, like, losing weight and getting healthy, but sleep is so not dialed in. It's like six hours a night, up on the phone, not able, like, in a really not great pattern, you know, in wondering why the bod's not changing. So can we talk a little bit about sleep, hormones, mood, all of those things for women and why it's so important? Yeah, I mean, it's so important for everybody and I'd say really, if you're listening to this podcast, you're like, oh my goodness, I am so overwhelmed by all of the things, I'd say that actually sleep is the first thing to nail down because it's going to affect everything else. So most people think it's nutrition and, you know, I'm a nutritionist. I love food, I love to talk about food, I love the power of food. You're not going to make great food choices if you haven't slept well. You're not going to be able to get up and go for a walk or go to the gym if you haven't slept well. So I think sleep is that underpinning foundation and thank goodness, the rhetoric has changed from sleep when you're dead and, you know, we think about, you know, finance, bro, sleeping under their desk and things like I think the rhetoric has changed. But the practicality of what people are doing maybe hasn't caught up yet. So let's start at the beginning, which is actually your sleep and stress are affected by how you wake up and when you wake up. So a lot of people will think, oh, I'm going to manage my stress when I finish my workday, six, seven o'clock at night, when they've had a super long stressful workday, it's too late, we're not going to be able to bring down our cortisol to upregulate our meltonin. So we have to think about what do we, how do we wake up first thing in the morning. So I actually came to this work through, it was actually through a, it was a conference on sleep for athletes. I was like, well, if athletes are doing this, why can't everyday people and high performance do all of this? And that's where I took all that work from. So really, we want to be thinking about our sleep health, our sleep hygiene from the moment that we wake up. We do not wake up with our phone as an alarm clock. Phone should not be in the bedroom, screen should not be in the bedroom. So I like to tell people, and it's such an easy hack, a daylight alarm clock. So we're like 60 bucks from Amazon. And what it does is that it creates the lights we wake up naturally. So that light hits the pineal gland, we stop making meltonin, we start making cortisol and adrenaline, which is the hormones that wake us up. We wake us up nice and naturally. So if you think about what an alarm clock does, an alarm is like that beeping, horrible sound, and we wake up and there's that spike of cortisol, and we're already on the back foot. So waking up with a natural light can be really, really important. Then again, light is one of the regulators of our circadian rhythm. So we want to wake up and we want to get as much light as we possibly can. Now, obviously, if you sleep with someone else in the room, do that once you get out of the bedroom, you know, but those people that kind of crawl out the bedroom and they've got one eye half shut and they keep all the blinds down and they don't turn on the lights and they're like, I wonder why I can't get going. You haven't told your body it's time to wake up. So really, our circadian rhythms are still set from when we were paleolithic people, when we were cavemen and cavewomen and cavepeople. So we need light to tell us it's time to get up. So I live on the east coast, we don't have particularly long days. So I'm going to get up, I'm going to put all of the lights on, I'm going to open the blinds, we're going to get as much light as I can. So that's kind of number one. Now, if you can get outside, I would love to be that person that gets up with my cup of coffee in hand or my water and my electrolytes and goes outside in the daylight and grounds with my feet on the ground and stuff. But we live, you know, there's other people around and they would think I was crazy, but I'm going to get up, I'm going to hydrate, I'm going to have light, I'm going to have temperature, I'm going to eat within about an hour of waking up, I'm going to get my exercise in, I'm going to move my body, I'm going to ideally do that outside if I can. But really thinking about the beginning of your day is the start of your best sleep. We don't want to ideally, we're not starting the day with looking at our phones or checking our emails, I try and read something inspiring or a business book or self-help or try and do something. I'm not a big meditator because my brain just doesn't like it. You know, maybe I'm listening to, listening to intentions or something a little bit more, so my brain has something to do. But what I want to be thinking about is how can I manage and mitigate stress throughout the day? We can't not have stress. We're going to have stress all of the time. Our body reacts to it in a way that it shouldn't do. So our bodies are made to have a quick stressor, an external stressor and then bring that stress down really, really quickly. So that's our flight or flight mode. What we have now, if we were like that all the time, fine. But what we have in our one day life is these elevated chronic stresses. We're always waiting for the other shoe to drop. Now that elevated that low harm of cortisol is going to be really impactful for our metabolism, for our brain health, for our gut health, for our mood, for our immune system, for our skin, for all of those things. So it's that low level of cortisol. So where can I find moments in the day to help me mitigate and metabolize my cortisol? So if I get stressed out, can I just take a moment to do a big deep breath? Can I get outside for a second? Can I hang out with my cat or your dogs or something just taking a moment to manage that stress? Because that's going to mean that by the time we get to the evening, we're not going to have these super high cortisol levels. And if our cortisol is super high, we're not able to make melatonin, which is our sleep hormone. Then we have to be so, so protective of our sleep hygiene and our evening routine. So that means no screens in the bedroom. That means no scrolling before you go to bed. That means no social media. That means no emails. It's really hard for people. It's really hard if you are trying to get something going, if you run a busy business, if you are working with different time zones. But honestly, if you can protect your sleep hygiene, no screens an hour before bed, eat as early as you can, do not take your phone into the bedroom. If you wake up, no scrolling, be so protective of that time because that is going to pay you back in so many other ways. I have started, I mean, I have never actually brought my phone in the bedroom unless my husband's gone, then I have the phone in the bedroom. I tend to like scroll while he's gone. But it's so rare because I notice a difference immediately. I'm like, oh, yeah, I noticed my brain is firing. My eyes are wide open and I'm like, yeah, there it is. Can't sleep. And I think now that I've gotten into just having the business that I have, the stress level is a lot higher. So I am aware that my sleep is even more important. I won't be able to do this business if I am stressed out all the time or not getting sleep because I know I have to have maximum amount of energy in order to do this business. When I talk to these high performing women who have a big company or something that they know they have to show up for, it's like, we have to do everything we can or you can't manage the stress. You won't be able to hold it down. You won't be able to hold onto the blessing that is going to come onto the other side, all of the things. So I love the like no screens. I know it's hard. But like replace it with the book. And I promise you, you'll be like, oh, I'm sleeping in 20 minutes of reading this book after just a little while. You know, your body, like my body will even if I'm not that tired, when I open up my Kindle at night and I've got my lavender oil on my pillow, my body's like, yep, I know it's time to go to sleep. And I think the big part is understanding that sleep is a really active time for the body. We're not consciously aware of that. So we think it's something that we can easily skip. Oh, I need more hours in the day. I'm going to eat into my sleep. But when we sleep, our body is doing so many detoxifying and repair and growing processes, you know, if you are trying to put on lean muscle mass in the gym, and you're not sleeping, well, the sleep is the time where you're going to repair and grow that muscle tissue. So I think it's understanding that sleep is actually a really active time for the body. It's not just something that is a nice to have it if you can. Sleep is one of my favorite things. So that's great. I love hearing all of these things. And I actually am so aware that at the end of the day, if I'm feeling like lost in my, you know, plan, my nutrition, all the things, a lot of that comes down to I'm like, Oh, my sleep is a little off. Let me just focus on this for a week. Yeah. And then it's almost like things can start falling into place because if you are rested, if you focus on what, you know, good sleep, which also means you're probably focused on not eating late, which also means you're probably focused on a little less phone time. And all of these things really add up. So like, if you're feeling overwhelmed, I think out of everything in this podcast, I think the first place is to be like, what are some things I can do to optimize sleep? And then I'll look at something else after that, if you know, you're not a sleeper, but it's just going to make everything else easier the next day. So if we don't sleep, it messes up our hunger hormones, we're more likely to crave high sugar, high carbohydrate foods. If we don't sleep, we're going to have it's going to be harder for us to work out. You know, last night I flew in from, you know, I did the East Coast to West Coast. It's a long day. But my sleep is sacred. So I'm doing my eye mask, I'm doing my earplugs, the air conditioning is on freezing. I'm mouth taping, I'm doing all of the things because then I got up, I had a protein rich breakfast, I went for a walk, I went to the gym, and I feel cognitively switched on to see you. Now had I not looked after my sleep, I would have been a hot mess today. I love that you said that I just want to add one more thing is what you just said. When I travel or even at home, I'm like, eye masks have changed my life because it's dark. And I end up not, you know, if you're waking up in the middle of the night, because your room might be too bright, you might have all these little lights on. And, you know, I have earplugs because my husband snores or any outside disturbance, I kind of just want to be able to block that out, keeping the room really cold so you can sleep better. Like some people don't realize that there are these little hacks that can keep you asleep longer, that can help you fall asleep faster, a nice cool room. So this is the argument between couples. I love it like freezing cold as well. So does Chris, thank God. But all these little, is there any other, any other things that you would say for something that people don't know for sleep optimization? Okay, so what do I do? So no screens, eat as early as you possibly can, have a routine. So really have a sleep routine and the sleep ritual, because then if you're traveling a lot, you can do exactly the same. My sleep ritual when I'm traveling is exactly the same as it is at home because my body's like, yep, okay, I know what's happening now. I know what you want me to do. So I mask earplugs, I go to sleep a lot earlier than my husband. So I had to be in a deep sleep before I go to bed. I love my husband, but he's six foot two, 200 something pounds, it's like getting in bed with a whale, like he's flipping over. So I have to be fast asleep. A cold room not only helps you get into deeper sleep, but it's more restorative for the body as well. So we definitely want, we call it a back cave, keep it dark, keep it cold. Be hydrated, but not too hydrated. So we don't want to get up to pee. Now when I travel, I'm traveling with my eye mask, my earplugs, my mouth tape, the room is cold, I'm doing all of those things. And it's that sleep ritual, that sleep routine that really is the basis for everything. I want to talk about just a caffeine cutoff time too. Like you guys don't realize how long that lasts. And recently I'm like super on a matcha kick. Like I just started really loving matcha. I was, that was kind of anti matcha before I was like, bleh. Like I did not like it. Now I found like some great places that make great matcha. So I'm obsessed. But with that said, matcha, actually I noticed my cutoff time has to be earlier than coffee. Like I'm Interesting. Awake. If I have it after like one 30 PM, no joke. I'm like, why am I staring at the ceiling? So some people say it's like a little more sustained energy throughout the day. So I have noticed like, Oh, this affects me more. So you kind of have to know what affects you. Some people, it doesn't affect like that. But if I go after a certain point for caffeine, I'm absolutely going to be like my brain is going to be going. So I think that's another big one is know your cutoff time or you're going to, you will be awake staring at the ceiling. Yeah. And I think a really good, a really good rule of thumb to know if your caffeine is affecting you. If you're someone who just before you go to bed, like you're getting sleepy on the couch or like your, you know, your eyes are closing as you're watching your show or whatever. And then you get into bed and you lie in bed and your head hits the pillow and your mind starts racing. You've had caffeine too late. So bring it back as early as you can in the morning. Like for me, if I'm having a really long day, I might have something after about lunchtime, but really 11, 12 o'clock is probably my cutoff time. Yeah. And that really should be mine as well. But yeah, and bedtime for me is 9, 9, 30 PM. Like I am just in bed. I have my routine. I have my ritual and it's changed my life. It's really, really changed my life. If you're going to go to dinner with me, I'm probably booking dinner for five 30 or six meeting because I do not want to mess that up. And I'm a very social person now, especially here. Now that I live in Newport Beach, I just find like it's been easier for me to be healthy and social here. Yeah. Maybe because everyone is early and they kind of all have the same lifestyle as me. That's been really big too. That's a hack. Yeah. Finding groups of people who have the same lifestyle as you who don't laugh at your five 30 reservation. They're like, thank God, yes, let's go because I still want to be in bed at nine because I am a high performer. Yeah. And we are me and my husband were exactly the same. If I go back to London and see my friends there, they live very different lifestyles. They have kids. I'm like, they're booking dinner reservations for eight o'clock. I'm like, I'm in bed. I'm winding. My brain is winding down. Yeah. Yeah. If I was going to go out for an eight, I'd have to go to bed for a little bit first, take what we used to call a disco nap and then come out again. But I just I can't I can't do it. It messes everything up. And for me, it's not worth it. Invite me to breakfast. Invite me to brunch. I am there. I am let's go for a green juice and a reforma pilates class. I will be the life and soul of the party after seven o'clock. No, don't invite me because I won't come. Yeah. I don't even like to break this on the weekend, you guys. Like some people might think that that's like a stick in the mud, but truly at this point, I'm like, look, if we're going to do something on a Friday, Saturday, like it's going to stick to this because I do not. I we went to a birthday party. It was a pretty big birthday party. So I'm not going to it's not like I'm not going to do something. Yeah. But oh my God, I noticed we were up until like midnight and it really messed with me through like Sunday for sure. It was a Saturday Saturday night, Sunday for sure. And then like Monday, I was like, oh, I noticed that I'm off. Like I had food late, cocktails late and then slept late. Yeah. And you know, your body wakes up still at this exact time. So it's really knowing I think coming from like such a nice dialed in routine to not doing that in a while. Yeah, it did make me realize how other people are functioning trying to run their businesses. How? And I was like, no wonder they're not getting the ideas or getting things done. Like I just felt like I was dragging like emotionally and physically and everything. And that was like one night. So yeah, it's huge. It is huge. And people I think we want to pretend it's not like that because we don't want to give it up. Yeah. Because it's hard. I get it. I was like such a Midwestern like party girl for a very long time. And that is a hard joy to replace. But I promise you it does get replaced and it gets better. You have to find people who like live a very different lifestyle. Start maybe doing more like hobbies in the morning. I found like really falling in love with like Pilates or pick a ball or walks or surfing or going to the beach like finding more activities that you can really fall in love with during the day. Help you not look forward to like nighttime stuff so much. But I think you've made such a good point there about who are you surrounding yourself? Totally. Because it is so much easier to stick to these things and stick to these routines and get up early and go to bed early if you are surrounding yourself with the right people. And that doesn't mean that you should cut people out of your lives. But if they don't understand, maybe you do cut them out of your lives. You know, I have, as I said, I've got friends that I've been friends with since I was 12. They know not. They'll invite me to dinner at eight o'clock if I'm back home in London, but they know I'm not going to show up. But they're never going to give me a hard time about it. And I think that's, I think we hear a lot in the self development world about oh, if someone's different from you, or they're not in this high achieving world, you should cut them out completely. And I don't think that's quite the truth. But I think if they don't support your goals, or they try and derail you, then maybe it's time to cut ties. So my friends that I've had for years, they totally get me, they're never going to comment on the fact that I'm not drinking, or that I'm not coming out eight o'clock at night. But I've had new acquaintances who just haven't been able to cope with the fact that no, I don't want a glass of wine. And that brings up something in them that maybe they don't like reflected in themselves. And that's not a friendship that I'm willing to pursue. So we've talked about what we put inside our bodies, but the environment, the company that we keep, even the TV shows that we're listening to, the podcast that we're listening to, that's such another form of nourishment that that's so important as well. Oh my god, I think it's one of the most important, because there's a quote that I love, it's your environment is stronger than your willpower 100%. And I, you know, when I lived at home, I could not get into growing up. I grew up in an environment where, you know, my parents were loving, but the habits were really horrible. The food habits were horrible. The mindset habits were not good. It was very much like, you know, we're poor, we have bad genetics, rich people are bad. This is how our lives will always be, you have to work hard and then you die. Like literally the things that were set in the mentality. And when I was at home and trying to get fit, because I was really depressed that I was getting made fun of all the time. And as a teenage girl, like getting made fun of that you're fat or overweight, my boys is like your, it's literally the worst because that's your whole, that's like your whole life as your friend and your friends and boys. And it truly was like, okay, I'm going to try to do this diet thing. And all I did was diet from, literally I was on my first diet at eight years old. And I could not, you know, lose weight to save my life. I started like lifting. So my body started to change a bit, but I could not break the food habits because I could not break the habits of the people around me. And if that when, you know, seven PM comes when your willpower is gone for the day, you're going to eat what's in the house. And if, if all I have in the house, even if I have my little healthy section in the fridge, like if there's pizza on the way to the healthy section or people are eating and saying, why aren't you eating this? Oh, come on. This isn't going to hurt you. Like I would cave every time. Maybe I could stick to it for a week or two weeks, but I would end up caving going back to the beginning. And it's because I could not out like out good habit, a bad environment or an unhealthy environment with different things. You're going to succumb to that. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stopped thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. Choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in too. Create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you. Handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard in 2026. Stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it, you guys. It feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm going to share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a brahlet connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle brahlet and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting it anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery. It's soft. It's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn your happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations. Effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to say 50% on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. For me, I'm just so highly sensitive to what you were saying to the people around me. And I had to do one of the hardest things. And that was to remove myself from my family from very long period of time. Yeah, from the mindset, from the beliefs, from the food, from literally everything. I went for two years of my life hardly talking to them. And I think this is a tough thing for people to hear because they're like, well, it's my family or I can't leave them. I understand that yes, if it's your husband or your kids, like, that's going to be tough. But that means you're going to need to sit and have some come to Jesus moments with them, ask them for support, see how much they can support you on this journey and why is it important to you. And then also, if you're not going to get that support that you need from them, you have to go and build it outside of your home. And yes, maybe see them see like your maybe spend a little less time with your husband a little more time at your workouts, or, you know, a little more time at your business networking groups so that you can try to break those habits because you are who you're around most. And if you can kind of fill, you know, your plate with better things as well, that is going to highly influence what you're doing. And it's one of the most challenging things. So to people hearing this, I know that that is hard. And I know that that's going to be something that's going to be like one of the hardest things you have to look at. But it's the truth. It's, it's everything. And I don't think but I also believe in how you do one thing is how you do everything. So I couldn't imagine being with my husband if he was eating pizza and not working out. Now we are outliers and the fact that I met him when he was a professional strength and conditioning coach, he's now a professor of exercise science, he's studying for his PhD in health and human performance. So we are, you know, we are outliers, but we've never had to have an argument about one of us wanting pizza and the other one wanting to have a salad or we've never ever said, no, you can't go to the gym, I need you to spend more time with me or why are you spending so much time on this when you could be spending time with me. And so that is so supportive. And if people really truly love you and care for you, they should want the best for you, even if they don't understand why they should want to see you thrive. And if you're like, this is important to me, then they should understand that and respect that. But I also think, you know, when we come back to high performance, how you do one thing is how you do everything. So if you're not looking after your health and your well being and your nutrition and your sleep and your stress, that means that you're not prioritizing the best life for you. So it sounds harsh, but I do think how you do one thing is how you do everything. You don't ever meet anyone with a really tidy house and a really dirty car. Or you're not really organized in one area of your life and not in the other. So if you're not prioritizing your health and well being, where else is that showing up in your life? And again, sounds harsh, but we are talking about high performance here. And if you want that next level, there are priorities and sacrifices. I agree. I mean, we're probably going to weave that portion throughout all of these podcasts because it truly is, you know, one of the biggest pieces. It's and it doesn't get all cleaned up right away. This takes a lot of time. The relationship portion is probably one of the toughest things to dial in. But when that gets cleared up, you become who you're around. Yeah. And I'm telling you when I started to become friends with other high performers and people who are really into health and wellness, you're just not doing the same stuff like you are going to dinner at 5 30. Yeah. You're sitting across from someone who just ordered probably a salad and maybe no cocktails or one cocktail. And then they say, Oh, I'm just having one. And then I'm going to do whatever. Like it's very normal for people to kind of like tell you about their routine or what their boundaries are or what they're going to do or what they're not going to do. Yeah. And they just don't care. They don't they don't let the other person's like choices really impact them. Yeah. So what happens is when you're around these people who are really dialed in, you're just like, Wow, okay. Well, I guess there's not a need for this appetizer before dinner. Okay. Because they don't want it, you know, or there's not a need to drink because they're not drinking. So I guess I could order a non elk as well or Oh, they're not getting dessert. So I guess I don't need dessert either. And if I want something, I can have it at home. But it's just like, it's just a very different lifestyle when you start hanging out with people who are very active because you stop going for, you know, it where I grew up in the people I would hang out with it was, Okay, well, let's hang out. So what we're going to do is we're going to go grab a coffee and a snack. Yep. So we go to the coffee shop first. And then we're like, Okay, let's talk about where we're going to go get dinner. But since we've got like a little bit of a leg here, and we have two hours to burn, let's go get a cocktail at this spot. Okay. All right. Well, let's go to dinner. Let's get go early because let's get a cocktail. Oh, let's go to the ice cream shop after dinner. I am not kidding you. Yeah, it was like the whole experience. Constant revolved around food. And now with higher performers, it's okay. How are we going to move our bodies? Yeah. Oh, let's take a nice walk in between. Yeah. Oh, yeah, we can stop and get a coffee, but you're probably not having a snack with it. Like, right? This is very real. Yeah, or let's experience. Let's go and take a class together. Or let's go for a walk, you know, let's walk and talk. Let's go and take a class together. We can go for a coffee afterwards. But it is it's so interesting. And I think even you and I talking, you know, there's still a night next level. So I work with so my husband and I both know Dr. Lion. And he's on some work with her. And my doctor is her doctor. So I my doctor is at her practice, Dr. Lisa Hunt. And we were at her conference in April. And Tim and I were getting up to go for our flight from Houston to Boston. Like we had to get it was like three, I don't know, it was like three or four. And I was like, it was an ungodly hour. I wouldn't get up to train at this, this time in the morning. And we get up and Tim and I are in the elevator going to get that Uber. And my doctor is in the elevator like 430 in the morning, because she's going to get her workout in. Wow. And I'm like, oh, and she is  so we both know Gabrielle, she's very, she's quite outgoing, she's a little bit larger than life, even though she's tiny. Dr. Hunt is completely the opposite way, she's very, like, I don't think she would mind if I called her introverted, she's very quiet, but she's there in the elevator at 4.30 and she's like, well, see, time to get to work out, and I was like, oh, time to raise my standards, but I think there are those are those moments when you're around those high performers, when you see that you need to raise your standards a little bit more, and then when you get there, that's your new baseline. So I think they're really fun things to do as well, like getting that next standard. I love it because then that comes the baseline, then it's like, okay, what's next? Yeah, and I think if this sounds awful to people, they're like, that's crazy, I don't even want to get there, you know, you have to remember that there's rewards for all of this. Oh, yeah. Like there's a reward that Dr. Lisa is getting by getting up at 4.30. Yeah. So it's not like, oh, she's just getting up and putting herself through something miserable and she's exhausted. Like there is probably an energetic reward. 100%. There's a mental reward. There's something where she's going to be speaking or teaching, like she's going to perform a lot better. Her head's going to hit the pillow and she's going to feel better about the day, the performance, like recall on stage. That's a very real thing. Yeah. So it's not that they're just torturing themselves. There's a major reward that you don't understand that you get after a period of time. It's like when people are like, where's your motivation for working on? I'm like, because I know how I feel when I don't do this consistently. Yeah. You know, it's like how I end up feeling when I am consistent for long periods of time. It's also like you do get to have a new identity. Yeah. There's some real pride in when you get to a place where you're not negotiating with yourself anymore. The integrity piece of it is so important. And almost this time last year, like last October, I went to a clinical training and they had a body composition scanner there. I was like, great, I'm going to give mine a try. Now, I knew that I hadn't been as dialed in as I wanted to be, but that was 43. And my weight on the scale has not changed for you. And I tell people this all the time. My weight on the scale has not changed for about 10 years. The only time I have a weight myself, I go into the doctor's office and I can guess. I'm usually with about half a pound. And I did this body composition scan and my body fat was a lot higher than I wanted it to be. And my lean muscle mass was a lot lower than it wanted to be. Now, I had been taking the boxes. I'd been eating okay. If eating okay for me, you know, I had been going to reforma pilates and doing some workouts at home, but not really strength training the way that my body needed to. And I was like, it was a real wake up call. And I needed that wake up call as well because I wasn't being integrist to all of these women who I was saying, no, you have to optimize your diet and strength training three to four times a week. And I wasn't doing it. And I even I needed that wake up call. So I think we can, you know, we are human. But how I feel now compared to almost a year ago when I really went back and I dialed things in again. I started working with Dr. Lisa. I did all of the things. It's a huge, huge difference. And yeah, I think it's we reap so many rewards from strength training, protein, early nights, not drinking alcohol. You reap them in the moment and you reap them long term as well. Are you a are you into spirituality manifestation? Any of the things? Yes. So I think I read my first self help book. I was an author Fiona Harald when I think I was in my early twenties. I did my first ever guided meditation in Tulum in Amansala. So it's always been part of my life. I didn't grow up with that at all. Come from very non spiritual working class background in the UK. It didn't grow up with any of that, but it's just kind of found its way into my life and everything from me and my husband have done unleash the power within and we've walked on fire. Yeah. So I think, you know, manifestation, spirituality, it plays a huge part in my life. Now it comes in ebbs and flows. I think it does for all of us. Sometimes we need a little bit more. Sometimes we need a little bit less. We did unleash the power within post pandemic, which was what like you didn't see anyone for two years. And then we are literally, you know, hugging and jumping around strain 9000 strangers in a convention center in Florida. And that was a big change for both of us for me and my husband. We both got two very different things out of it. He had a career change. It really went with the career that he wanted. And then very shortly after that, I was diagnosed with a benign tumor in my face that I had to have operated on. And Tim says to me, I'm really sorry you had to go through that straight after unleash the power within. I'm like, he's like, I'm sorry you didn't get a chance to like jump on that energy. And I was like, well, no, without that, I wouldn't be able to get through the surgery in the world. I did. So yes, I dip in and out of all of the things. I like Mimi Bouchard's activations right now. Meditation I find challenging. Yeah, definitely, definitely a piece of that. But I do believe that things like manifest without the hard work. I totally agree. You know, I think for anybody who is like into anything spiritual, religion, God, God, spirituality, manifestation, I think that if you are not dialed in your health, I think does not come as easily because I think your channel is blocked. I think you're just like not connected and you can't when I am not feeling good or I eat a lot or I'm in a, you know, maybe I've been drinking too much or I just got back from a vacation and I was like, oh my gosh, too many cocktails, too much food. It's almost like I'm not feeling connected spiritually anymore. But also why is the universe, God, consciousness, whatever we're calling it, it's not going to give you opportunities if you're not ready for them. So it's not the universe isn't going to say, here's this amazing opportunity. But if you don't have the energy, the time, the motivation, the clarity to be able to take, you know, you have to get yourself ready. And then the universe will say, here's that opportunity for you. But then you have to then work for it as well. I totally agree. So it's I think it's a give and take relationship of you do everything that you can to get ready. And so when the opportunity arrives, you're then ready for it. But if you're not ready for it, why is the universe going to give it to you in the first place? Mm hmm. I feel like when people are like, I'm, you know, I'm not getting ideas to solve these problems or I don't know what to do. I'm like, OK, well, you probably need to clean up like everything you're doing. Yeah. So that you can think better. Right. You can get the energy to get yourself out of a hole because there's a lot of people who feel really stuck right now in business or people who are like, this isn't working anymore. That's not working. My launches aren't working. I'm like, what happens is unfortunately it's a vicious cycle where when you feel like things aren't working, you tend to start going back to your old comfort. So you like food, not not feeling as like healthy, you know, more sugar drinking. What are you watching? What are you probably numbing out a little bit? Yeah. And what happens is then you start hearing, oh, things aren't good. You start tuning in more to people who are saying launches aren't going well. Things aren't going well. When there's a whole world of things going amazing, but because you're kind of losing some of those habits, maybe you're not sleeping as well. Like it's this vicious cycle that just kind of it's a downward spiral for people. And I think when you start with your that's why I'm so passionate about like, I want to start talking about health and food and all of these things again, because it gets you on the path to solve problems, to get in contact with the people who are still winning, to get in contact with the ideas, to feel connected back to God or spirituality or whatever that is, to like get you back on an upward spiral. So I feel really passionately about all of those things. If things are going bad, if it is the most stressful, the most busy, the most tired week, month, year of your life, you lean in even more. And I think this is something that people lean out. And oh, no, you know, things are so busy. My company's failing. Whatever it is, I'm going to, I don't have time to do the health and wellness things. No, you don't have time to not do them. That's when you have to lean into them even more because it's going to give you the physical and mental strength and resilience to get through those tough times. And I think, you know, something that high achievers, I see a mistake that they're making is they're bouncing between all or nothing. So I remember having a conversation with someone who's like, when they're not about to do a, and she was a business owner, but she was a very well-known business owner. And if she didn't have a big event coming up or a red carpet or a keynote or a presentation, her healthy habits just went out the window. And then she would be like, oh, my goodness, I've got two weeks again to shape. I'm going to do all of the crazy cardio. I'm going to do all of the juice cleansers. I'm going to do all of the fasting. And it's this awful all or nothing. Now that's so bad for you mentally and physically, long term. But then you're not going to be able to show up as your best self for that red carpet, that presentation, that keynote, that conference, because you're going to be drained and depleted. So we have to stop this all on nothing. And we have to stop, you know, people are like, where can I buy back time from? Oh, I won't go to the gym and I won't sleep. Actually, you know, you're taking even more time away from yourself. OK, so all or nothing phase. We're talking about fit for purpose protocols for people who are like, let's say you have something big coming up or let's say you're like, oh, my goodness, you know, I really want to get in great shape like mentally for a launch that I have coming up or like you said, a red carpet or maybe I need something just for a lot of energy that I'm going to have to be doing. Can you kind of tell me about some of the people that you've worked with? I know you can't name names, but some of the types of people. Yeah. And then what are some of the things that you do for different events? Yeah, so I think fit for purpose or protocol for purpose is a really, really good way of thinking about it. So these are number one, we want to have our foundations dialed in. So we have done our testing. We've got all of our results back. We know that there's nothing going on with thyroid or iron or any of those things. So we have a really good foundation. Then we want about this. Think of this concept of two weeks out. So you understand this from your fitness days, you know, you're two weeks out from a competition, you're two weeks out from a photo shoot. And what that means is that your standard and your foundation is really high. So you're doing all of the things 90 to 95 percent. Then all that means is that we need two weeks to tailor things. So let's say that is a red carpet or we need, we don't need to go on a crash diet to get into the dress. We don't need to be doing crazy juice cleansers and detoxes and colonics and all of those things. We just need to tighten up for two weeks because we can do things. There are slightly more extreme for two weeks without a long term effect on our health. But if we do the extreme things for a long time, because we haven't got the foundations, that's when we get things messed up. And mentally, that's when you get mentally, it's, you know, mentally, we're like, oh, I can do this short term fix. So why am I going to give up the cocktails and the fries and things? I'm just going to go all on nothing all of the time. Now in our twenties, we could get away with that a little bit more than we can now. But it has such a long term impact on emotional and physical health. So two weeks out, we want to be 90 to 95% of the time we are on track with everything and then two weeks out, maybe let's say it's red carpet. So we know we've got a dress to get into. So that's when maybe we might do a little bit more lean meat, fish, chicken, lots and lots of green veggies. We might then think about, OK, let's say red carpet, we want to make sure our skin's looking great as well. I just always think of the glam bot when I think of this. So our skin and our skin and our hair. So are we upping our proteins so we can make the collagen? Are we taking collagen supplement? Are we maybe doubling our liposomal vitamin C so our skin makes more collagen? Are we getting a ton of healthy fats in there so we get those really plump cellular walls for our skin so our skin's glowing? And then maybe a little closer to the time, maybe that's something that you do do, you know, a lymphatic drainage massage on the day. But we want to be thinking of this concept of two weeks out. So when we get to that big event, we feel we feel full and we feel glowing and we feel radiant. We don't feel drained and depleted, which is what we're going to have done if we had to do like a week of a juice, clients. So that's something like a red carpet. So two weeks out, tighten up for the last two weeks. Do the fun things like the lymphatic drainage and, you know, I can create a, you know, let's say someone's got a last minute photo shoot. We might do a couple of days of a skin promoting smoothie. We might do a soup with a ton of bone broth and healthy fats and lots of polyphenols in there, but we only want to do that for short term. We don't need to do that for long term. Now let's say someone has a, okay, let's think Tony Robbins. We've both seen Tony Robbins speak, right? Okay. So the man is genetically different to the rest of us. Anyway, I do feel like there is the next level of evolution and he is one of those people that is that next level of evolution, but we're talking energy and we're talking mental cognition. So then maybe we might have an energy boosting smoothie. It's going to keep our blood sugar balance, but it's going to have things like macro in there for energy. It might have blueberries in there for our polyphenols. It might have beats in there that help with our circulation. It might have some oats in there to keep our blood sugar balance. So really what can we think of in terms of cognitive function? Um, another thing is looking after our nervous system. So I worked with, um, it was funny. I was in Boston and it was a British client and it was a colleague of mine that I'd worked with before. And she said, my client is coming to Boston to shoot a movie. Would you be happy to work with her? And I said, yeah, absolutely. And when I heard shoot movie, I thought it was a producer or a videographer or something, but no, it was a, she'd been in a very famous show. It was probably the biggest show of the 2010s. It had dragons. It's all we're going to say. And she was coming over to Boston to shoot a movie and I was doing her training and her nutrition at the time. Now the movie was very violent and very physically demanding. There were lots of fight scenes and it was quite dramatic. Now my job there is not to whip her into shape in the gym or to get her to lose a ton of weight. My job is to make sure she is strong enough physically through training and through nutrition and emotionally to get through these really complicated fight scenes. They were filming at night. It was really, really stressful for her. So for her, I was looking at building her up and keeping her strong. So we're not going to kill it in the gym. We're going to work on really, really functional strength training. We're going to make sure that her nutrition is dialed in really, really nutrient dense diet, but how are we also adding things that help keep her feel calm and grounded. So she's not doing low carb. We're putting in complex carbs there. And even at that point, when I'm working with someone like that, so intimately, I knew that she needed someone to help with her, with our emotional and energy. So I sent her to my Reiki healer. So it really is that word holistic that I have in my job title. It really is 360. So for someone like getting someone ready like that when they're shooting a movie is very different from getting someone ready for a red carpet. And again, different for a keynote or a big conference. Okay. So a topic that I love is taking risk because as an entrepreneur, you really have to put yourself out there all the time. Yeah. You have to do big, bold asks. You have to take big risks and handle a lot of stress that comes with taking a risk. Sometimes when you take risks, it fails massively. I've never met an entrepreneur who has not failed massively multiple times. And that comes with a lot of stress, but actually taking those risks demands a different level of just like clarity and stress management. Yeah. So I would love to know, like, what's the connection between physical health and the ability to take bigger risks in business? Yeah. I think the word here is resilience because that first risk you take is probably not going to pay off. And then the second one and then the third one and then maybe the sifty third one. So you need to bounce back and you need to bounce back stronger and you need to be able to learn the lessons from that. When we take big risks, there's so many things that we can't control. What do we have control over? When we have control over what we put in our mouths, we have control over what we do in the gym, we have control over our sleep, we have control over the inputs that we bring into our lives. So A, it gives us a sense of control. And I think that's really, really important. Two, it gives us energy. So, you know, we have long days. There's no getting, there's no getting away with it. Yeah, ideally we'd love to have those lovely eight hour days and have our huge evening routines and things. Sometimes we have to do really long days, really long travel. And if we don't have the energy to show up as our best selves, we're not going to be able to, I know, let's say you have to fly from the West Coast to the East Coast to see an investor for Glowsea. And or you do the red eye from, yeah, so you do the red eye from LAX to New York. And you know that you have to then go and have an investor meeting. Now, okay, you might be a little bit tired from the flight, but you've been eating while you've been hydrating while you've been doing all of the things. You're two weeks out, you've been doing all of the things running up to it. You're going to have the energy, the mental function, the cognitive function to be able to show up at that meeting. If you show up at investor meeting for a skin and gut brand, you know, it's an aspirational brand, we're talking about energy, we're talking about showing up as our best selves and you're tired, you're dehydrated. You're cranky. You might be a little bit, you know, you're not feeling comfortable in your body. You're not going to be able to get the big money there. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about. But then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video, just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your Aura Frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting Aura Frames.com to get $35 off Aura's best selling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wirecutter by using promo code earn at checkout. That's AuraFrames.com promo code earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frames sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about from what customers see to what they don't see like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides. Real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn with the holidays and the new year coming. You probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award-winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between, choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees and there's zero pressure from blackout in motorized options to classic shutters. Blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code EARN at checkout. Limited time offer rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. So I think it's an energy piece of the puzzle. It's a brain health piece of the puzzle as well. We all know that if we haven't slept well, we haven't eaten well, our brains don't function as well. And it's that's not just through the food we eat. It's through the exercise that we do as well. So we know that strength training, high intensity interval training, it helps us make something called brain derived neurotropic factor, which helps us literally grow new brain cells, which I don't know about you, but in business, I feel like I need to grow brain cells all of the time. Yeah, there's very like complex, big challenges all the time. You have to be able to stretch. So mentally, it's helping your brain as well. And then physically, there's always so much going on as a business owner. I don't want to be worried about my joint health. I don't want to be worried about my bloating. I don't want to be thinking about all of those things. I want to be in thriving mode, not surviving mode. So I think there's that internal feeling of confidence, but then there's also an external feeling of confidence. If you feel strong in your body, you know, if you want to step up on a stage and you feel strong, you have good core strength, you have good posture, your skin looks good, like you look healthy. There is a confidence that comes with that as well. So I think we do need to think about that as a tool in our toolbox for high achieving business risks. When we feel secure in certain things, we feel secure in our health, we feel secure in our energy, we feel secure in our, in our appearance. It gives us the competence to take bigger risks. If we're in survival mode all of the time, if we're worried about, you know, our heart health, our gut health, we're not going to feel like we can take bigger risks. And then also coming back to how we started our conversations today with the gut health piece of the puzzle. If we're not making those neurotransmitters that make us feel confident and remove the anxiety and give us that confidence, that feeling of joy, that being able to manage the overwhelm, then we're not going to be able to do it as well. So it's everything. We can't make, we can't take big risks from an unhealthy body. And, you know, an interesting piece is people don't want to take a big risk on you if you're not healthy. And there's studies around it. Yeah. Literally people not even realizing there is a bias because what they do is when they think of wanting to invest in someone, and maybe they see someone who's not healthy or someone who is overweight. And this is, this is an actual fact on studies, you guys. They go, I don't know if that person's going to be able to go the extra mile right because they might be too tired. Yeah. Or maybe they, if they don't have in their mind, if they don't have the discipline to work out, then they're associating that to maybe not having the discipline to do what it takes in their business. Yeah. And you may not like this, but it is just facts. So it's like studies of what people have found with who people invest in. Yeah. Who people bet on. Yeah. Who people want to work with. Who we're attracted to. Yeah. Who you're attracted to. Yeah. And so, you know, no matter who you are, this is not like, oh, well, you know, that person was born that way or they were lucky. These are all things that we do have some control over. Yeah. So I think instead of feeling upset about it, because I could have felt upset when I was younger and when my family literally told me that I had no choice in the matter and it was my genetics and I would always be overweight. I literally was told this from my aunt sitting at around at a table and they said, good luck. You'll always be fat like us. Oh, and you was saying I was like very impressionable and that set something off in me and I was like, I don't believe that. So I hope that if you're hearing this and maybe you have that belief that you decide with all that you have, like you don't believe that either. That maybe what you've been told or even diagnosed with is maybe not the truth and that you have more control. If in, I hope that you find a place where it's like, if you're not doing all the things that we talked about, that it gives you hope to go. I could work my way up to that. If it's not this year, maybe it's in two years, maybe it's in five years. This journey's been so long. Yeah, I know it has been for you. Yeah. It truly has been a journey since my, since my first die to eight years old. Yeah. Like this is going to be something that's going to probably take some time for you. It's going to take three years. It's going to take five years. It's going to take 10 years, but you're going to be able to live out those years. So much happier, so much healthier and feeling so much better. So, you know, I love that you touch on the confidence piece because I've absolutely done a keynote where like key notes where I haven't felt. Yeah. When like, I did not take care of myself. Yeah. I did not feel good on that stage. I feel like I wasn't able to, I do believe there is like a bit of like channeling that can happen when you feel really good about yourself and you've taken care of yourself on stage. And when you don't feel good, I'm kind of like, we're yet. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I drink really like, oh, I, you know, maybe I drank too much or whatever that week and I just feel caught off from that. So, you know, let's really touch just a little bit more on stress resilience because I think as a high performer that there is more stress than I think people do realize. What are, are there some things that we can do? Like is walking something really huge for stress? Like what are some things that people can do to do better stress management? So I think people will separate. I call them the four pillars of wellness. So you've got your nutrition, your supplementation, your fitness and your lifestyle, your stress and sleep. And people will separate these things and think that their diet doesn't have anything to do with their stress. Now, if you have poor blood sugar regulation, if you're not eating your protein, if you're still eating your sugar, your cortisol levels are going to go up and down. So number one is I know how much karma I feel if I have a meal with a lot of good protein in there, a lot of fiber in there, a lot of healthy fats helps me feel calm, helps me feel grounded. So if you are bouncing from sugary coffee and a pastry to a burger for lunch and a piece of a dinner, that's also going to give you higher stress levels. So that's, that's number one. Number two is that exercise is a great de-stressor. So we know that when we work out, our cortisol levels goes up. That's a good thing. I think again, something we hear myths on social media is that your cortisol needs to be low or balanced. That's absolute nonsense. We need to have higher cortisol in the morning. Cautosol is not bad. It's when it becomes dysregulated. That's when it's damaging for the body. So we want to have higher cortisol in the morning. Then we want to see it curve off and go down towards the end. So exercise can help us regulate our cortisol, our fight, flight or flee response. When we have a stressful event, our cortisol level goes up because it prepares us to fight or to run. Now, if we don't do anything about that, that's going to cause health issues. So if you do have a really stressful event, one of the best things that you can do is go for a run for 10 minutes, you get in the gym and throw some weights around. Because that's actually going to help metabolize your cortisol. So that's really important. It's not separating, oh, I've got stress management over here and I've got diet over here and I've got fitness over here. They're also integral to each other. So those would be kind of the two things. Going out for a walk is, you know, I've never met a walk that I've regretted. If I, for me, my walking is my mental health number one and everything else. Second, it's like, if you get really strong out, nothing's working. Double checking your emails, your bank balance, keep refreshing your Instagram post is not going to change anything. Put your sneakers on, go out for a walk. You're going to feel a hundred times better afterwards. And then really thinking about what else can we do during the day and also making your stress management fit for your lifestyle. I've been in and out of a meditation practice my whole life. Sometimes I can do it. Sometimes I can't. I would love to go to a Jojo Spencer retreat. I just don't think I can do it.  and the 18 hours a day. But what works for me is listening to a great podcast and going for a walk. What works for me is maybe just putting on some really great music and dancing around the house. What do I love to do? I love to go get my nails done or my eyelashes done. Eyelash extension is one of the best things you can do because you have to lie there with your eyes taped shut for at least an hour and you can't move, so that's going to make me calm down. So I think it's really finding what works for you in terms of stress management. There are some great adaptogens that can help. Ashwagandha is fantastic. Lavender oil has been clinically proven to help reduce relaxation and reduce stress. So it's what really works for you because I know I've got such hard charging clients. If I told them to go and lay in one of those flotation tanks for 20 minutes, it would drive them crazy and they would get even more stressed. So for them, their stress management might be going to do a boxing workout for an hour. So your stress management has to work for you. And I think the biggest key is that stress management and sleep go hand in hand. If we don't sleep well, we're more stressed the next day. But energy and resilience, those are things that we, you can't pay for energy and resilience. You can't get that from AI. Those are things that are intrinsic to us, but they're the biggest keys for taking bigger risks, for achieving more things in business. And really, it is that whole nutrition, supplementation, fitness, lifestyle, sleep, stress, it's all going to help us build more energy and have more resilience. Okay, so you had mentioned the high cortisol in the morning and how that's, you know, cortisol can be a great thing. And I know that I get my blood work done quarterly. So it's just, I get to see like all the different, you know, cortisol levels. But with that said, I back in the day used to do like nonstop hit training. Can we just talk a little bit about because you had said that, you know, if you go and do certain training, like it can help eat up that cortisol that that happens. What happens when we do like hit training every single day though? Is that a good thing, a bad thing? What does that look like? So let's backtrack and talk about how we measure cortisol. So when we have our blood cortisol levels done, it's a moment in time. So really what we want to think about is what are our cortisol levels doing at different times of the day? Yeah. So in the morning, cortisol is the hormone that wakes us up. So we want cortisol to be higher in the morning. If I sometimes I will look at lab results and functional medicine testing and I'll see that cortisol is low in the mornings. That means we've got to the point of burnout. We want to get before that. So we want cortisol higher in the morning, higher around lunchtime, and then it is going to drift off. Now, if you're getting your cortisol done through a blood test, it's only telling you one point of the day. So maybe like nine AM in the morning, you don't know what the rest of the day is doing. So we want to do something called a four points to library cortisol test, which is really gross. You have to spit into a tube four times four points a day. And then you mail that off. And then that tells us what our cortisol level is doing throughout the day. So we want to see that nice cortisol curve. Now, just like any hormone, and this is such misinformation on social media, there's no such thing as hormone balance. It's hormone optimization. So and for women, I think we understand this a little bit more because we have a 28 to 35 day cycle with men, they're really just looking at the 24 hour cycle with women, we have a 24 hour cycle and we have a, you know, we have a menstrual cycles as well, we have our longer cycles. So we want to be thinking about when do we when are we producing cortisol? And when we are not. So I think back to the heyday of boutique fitness classes, like the 2010s. And everyone was going to the soul cycle class at 730 830 at night. That's like going to the club. Like you wonder why you're doing your you have this really, really busy day in the office and then you go to your soul cycle class at night, and it's pounding music and flashing lights and the instructor hyping you up. And then you think you're going to be able to go to bed at 1030. It's not going to happen. So we have to think about when do we want those cortisol? When do we want cortisol to be released? So for example, if we're hit training, or we're doing cardio, ideally, we want to do that first thing in the morning, going to give us that spike cortisol, then we're going to be able to mitigate and metabolize that during the day. Do I like hit training? Yes, do I want my clients doing that 830 at night? No, let's do a yoga class. Let's go for a walk. Let's calm down. Now, hit training has been and my husband speaks better on this than I do, but hit training has been bastardized. The use of that word hit training actually has very specific exercise parameters. So within certain rest to work periods. So if anyone's saying to me they're doing a hit training class for an hour, they're not because they're not getting into those correct work to rest ratios to get the benefits from it. So it's very, very specific. But going back to your question, should we be doing hit training every day? No, if we're stressed out, should we be doing hit training? No, when you are more stressed out, you want to dial back and do the foundations and do the things that are going to ground and calm you. So if I have my clients and they're super stressed out, do I want them to do hit training? Yes, especially for women. It's fantastic for burning fat. We actually do see it has some impact on belly fat and on visceral fat. It's also hit training helps us produce more collagen in our skin. But it can be really, really stressful for the body. So you get back to your foundations, you strength train three to four times a week. Then if you're feeling good, you've got a ton of energy, then let's put our hit training in, because it's still a stressor for the body. So we just have to think about how many stresses that we having and what those stresses are. And all do the pros outweigh the cons. So if I'm having a couple of weeks where I'm not traveling anywhere, it's kind of a calm over the summer for me, it's always quite quiet. So that's when I might put more hit training in because my body is like, Oh, I can handle that stress. I can find something good from that stress, that stress will rebuild me. Whereas if I'd woken up this morning after a day of travel and not eating right and sleeping in the hotel room, and I done hit training, that's going to produce more cortisol that my body doesn't need. So again, it's those fit for purpose protocols of yeah, hit training is great. But do it when you're not stressed out. This is reminding me of so many, you know, I've been through so many workout evolutions in my career, like literally I've done it all. But for years and years, especially when I was competing, I did not realize that, you know, it was like, I'd go do a hit training, or I do a bunch of cardio, and it was like, I was in such a fight or flight all the time in workouts that it was also making me starving. So when I started working out a little less, yeah, and started doing some lower impact things and became really became a walker, I noticed like, wow, I this is offsetting, it's doing the opposite, like I thought working out less would actually be worse for my body. And I noticed that I actually got leaner, which is interesting, this is not for everyone. But I had to find this balance, I got leaner by like doing less and lower impact, just like not as stressful of things, because for how starving I was getting lifting super heavy or doing like hit training all the time, I was just, I couldn't control my eating, I was starving all the time. So for me, I had to like strike this balance of, okay, what does it look like to strength train, but not a ton, like three times a week, yeah, for a little less time, and then maybe do some walking on those off days or yoga or light things. And that just felt so counterintuitive to me, from what I had learned and the culture that I was in. And that can be hard to find the balance because you get really addicted. Yeah, to thinking that a certain way of working out is giving you results, because maybe you did get a lot of results in the beginning. And also it's the you are conflating effort with results as well. And we all know from being in business from being like, there are certain things that you put more effort into, and they get really good results. And then sometimes you can put all of your effort in the wrong place. And yeah, women will come to me and they're doing, you know, they're doing the cardio, they're doing the hit training, they're doing, you know, the barries or the f 45 or the orange theory, all of these. There was a real and it's actually when I got out of the fitness industry, there was a real movement to more is better, harder is better. If you're not crawling out of the, the red room in barries or whatever it is, maybe that's 50 shades of gray, I can't remember. I think I was too confused. But if you're not, you know, on the floor depleted, crawling out of your workout, it wasn't a good workout. And there was I really feel that we saw that in like 2010s, and on for about 10 to 15 years. And that's absolutely not true. And we are just depleting our bodies. It's about smart exercise. It's about doing the things that really move the needle for women, that strength training, that's walking, we can throw a little bit of hit training in there, if we're feeling healthy. But those weeks where you're super stressed out, you actually do want to dial back on the things that are going to increase the cortisol. Okay, so we're going to kind of end where we started just talking about gut health, because you have in here, you aren't what you eat, you are what you absorb, but you did mention. But I want to talk to people about what like type of foods they can kind of be eating for their gut, because we did talk about how it is mood, energy, and not just foods, but skin as well. So gut health became kind of a big thing. And talking about like, okay, why do we need probiotics now? And because, you know, glossy has a probiotic in it, I feel very passionately about all the ingredients that are in glossy and also just talking about how important it is to be eating for your skin. I don't know if you know the story, but like when I was in fitness and I would shoot covers, they would always email me before I would go and shoot. And they would say, Hey, we want to make sure you're eating for your skin, not just like for being lean or, you know, having this fit that day. Yeah, because they said, you know, a lot of times girls will show up and their skin is terrible. And we have to do a bunch of air brushing, and we don't want to do that. We don't want it to look unnatural. So we try to do the least amount of air brushing for a couple of the magazines I always shop for. And so they'd be like, make sure you're eating for your skin, make sure you're hydrating, don't do what people are telling you to do and like cut out the fats. So they would send me like lists of food night. That's when I started to learn, Oh, my God, what you eat will show up on your skin or not. Yeah. And so, you know, I met so many girls in the fitness industry whose skin was terrible. Yeah. And they aged so quickly, the aging part. The aging part was insane. So that's really was a huge part of also what we did with Glossy, like, okay, how can we make sure people understand this is so much about what you're absorbing. So let's talk about a little bit just about like, you know, back in the day when we were eating fermented foods, what that does for our gut, and a little bit about how we can eat for our skin. Yeah, I love back in the days if we were back in the day. No, hundreds of years ago, you guys. So why do we and this is this is a great question in terms of supplements in general, do we need supplements? Can't we just get everything from our diet? Unfortunately, not. So we have depleted all the minerals in our soil. So we're not getting the ingredients, we're not getting the nutrients from our soil. None of us are eating an ideal diet. Me, you, as much as we try. And then we have so many environmental and external stresses. So we're not getting probiotics in our food unless we're really, really focusing on it. So in terms of fermented foods, we're thinking of things like Greek yogurt, we're thinking of Kaffir, we have maybe probiotic cottage cheese, we have sauerkraut, we have kimchi, we have foods that are fermented foods. Now they're wonderful. And they have probiotic bacteria in there. But they're not really enough these days to create a good and an effect in our body, you know, what are we trying to create in our body? We're trying to minimize the bad bacteria, and we're trying to nourish the good bacteria. Now adding fermented foods is a great way of doing that. But if we want to optimize that, that's when we need to add probiotics in there. So probiotics are different from fermented foods, as in they're clinically studied, they should be clinically studied, we know where they're going in the gut. And these days, we really want to be thinking about lots of different types of, of probiotics, a different probiotic bacteria have different effects. We even know that the type of probiotic, the type of bacteria you have in your gut can affect things like your cardiovascular health. So they really affect everything in our body. So again, going back to that diet, if you're eating a fantastic diet, but you're not absorbing all of the nutrients, then A, that's going to cause an inflammatory response, B, you're going to get bloated and C, you're not going to be getting all of those nutrients from the diet. So really, if a client is willing, and I will always kind of push them in that direction anyway, we want to start with gut health. One of the best things that we can do for gut health is to take a clinically studied probiotic that is actually going to nourish that good bacteria in our gut. Now that is, as you well know, that is a minefield. So I very often will have women come to me and they will state the name of a very well known brand of probiotics. Now, what happens if we take the wrong type of probiotic, or we have gut dysbiosis and imbalance of good and bad bacteria, when we take the wrong probiotic, or we take too many probiotics, we're growing everything in there. So people will be like, I don't understand, I took this really strong one of the better word probiotic, and I ended up even more bloated, constipated, etc. That can happen. That can happen. It happens a lot. And I'm like, well, we need to think about, let's manage that good and bad bacteria, let's stop feeding the bad bacteria, and let's nourish the good bacteria. So I think probiotics can be a minefield looking for clinically studied probiotics is really, really important. What are we looking for when we're thinking about a good probiotic? Is it still active when it gets to the part of the gut that it needs to be? So we think about probiotics help gut health. Well, gut health really is everything from, you could argue the brain, but definitely everything from the mouth down to the anus. So we have tons of different bacteria in different parts of the gut. Is the probiotic actually going to get there and still be live and still be beneficial? What form is it coming in? So a lot of people with poor gut health, they think I'm going to start them off with a ton of supplements. I'm actually like, no, we're going to pair back. We're going to do lots of liquids, we're going to do lots of powders, because they're a lot easy for your body to absorb. So finding the right probiotic is really matching it to that person and their needs as well. And also, is it going to be something, you know, what is the supplement we should take? What is the workout that we should do? What is the diet that we should stick to? What's the one that you're going to do? And the one that you're going to enjoy? So, you know, for a long time, we only ever had refrigerated probiotics. My clients would never take their probiotics because they're like, well, it's in the fridge and I have to think about it. So something that we can take daily when we may be not having to think about an extra step, that can be really beneficial. I like to do probiotics, you know, we get different types of probiotic foods, probiotics in our fermented foods, but then making sure we're taking a probiotic a day. Personally, I have one or two glows a day and I do another probiotic on top because I know that my gut is nice and balanced and it likes to have a lot of probiotics. Do you what's the other probiotic that you like to take? Is it a certain strain? Like a strain for something else? Yeah. So I take something called Saccharomyces Bulardi and that just helps to keep the, it's good at helping keeping the bad bacteria low and still nourishing the good bacteria. So I do that all of the time because I have had gut health issues, but I do like people to do that after they've been taking an antibiotic or during taking an antibiotic or if they're traveling or a time of stress or GI dysfunction. So we can cycle our probiotics and again, that's getting into, we can test for that. We can do a poop test, which is exactly what we think it is and we can see what strains of bacteria we have, what we need to nourish, what we need to bring down. But I think for most people starting with a good, with some fermented foods, not too many, with a probiotic they're going to take every day, that's a really great starting point for their gut health. Okay, we'll finish off with just a couple more supplements because we've talked about probiotics, we've talked about, you know, kind of nutrients, proteins. Let's touch quickly, just on like omega-3s, B vitamins, magnesium. Yeah. Because I feel like those are important. Yeah. So I think, again, we want to, when we're thinking about supplements is ignoring what's going on on social media, which is so, so hard. What does our body actually need? So number one is what does our body need? What are we deficient in? So are we deficient in iron? Are we deficient in vitamin D? Are we deficient in magnesium? And we're going to find this out through our tests. We find this out through, yes. So mostly through testing. Now, there are some things that we can say, you know, I always have to say, you always want to check with your medical provider first, but we know that most of us are deficient in magnesium. Magnesium is used in over 300 metabolic processes in the body when we get stressed out, our body uses more magnesium, you know, we're not getting a lot of magnesium in our food because it's not in our soil anymore. So we can be pretty sure that most people are magnesium deficient, most people in the US are magnesium deficient. So magnesium is something that I'm always going to say, let's put some magnesium in. Actually feel like just because glossy as magnesium in it, I always feel like, because a lot of people are like, wow, I feel better even after a week. I'm like, you were probably magnesium deficient. Like, because people don't realize like you said, the 300 different things, it affects so much that was why I was super like, okay, we're going to make people feel better and look better, but they're going to notice such a difference when you just start taking a great magnesium. Yeah. And exactly, a great magnesium. So, you know, my clients will come to me and they're like, well, I'm taking magnesium, I don't feel any different. And they're taking, you know, no shade Trader Joe's, but they're taking like a Trader Joe's off the shelf, or four Kilo magnesium, that's not going to do anything for them. So a really great quality magnesium, it's going to help with, it's going to help with your muscle strength, it's going to help with your brain health, it's essential for nerve conduction, it's essential for heart health, essential for skin, it's essential for stress management. So magnesium is a pretty good bet for most people. I haven't seen a lab test in either the East Coast or in the UK that has been a good level or an optimum level of vitamin D. So most people, most people if they're not taking a supplement, they're probably going to be vitamin D deficient. Again, it's a really simple, easy blood test. So people are going to say, you know, do I need to take vitamin D? Yes, but let's find out how much you actually need to take. Are you at the really low end or are you at the optimal end? Again, I think vitamin D is a really good one to test for because we can take too much vitamin D, it's a fat soluble vitamin, so it can get, we just want to make sure that we're taking the right levels there. B vitamins essential for energy. If we're having a good amount of red meat in our diet, we might not need a B vitamin, but definitely for our vegans and vegetarians, if they want to make energy, B vitamins are really, really important. Fish oil, if we're not eating three servings of fatty fish a week, we probably need a fish oil in there. It's one of the most clinically studied. We want to make sure we're doing like a wild caught really, really good quality fish oil. So important for we know for cardiovascular health, but also for our skin health as well. Whenever we're thinking supplements for skin health, we want to be thinking collagen, vitamin C, antioxidants, polyphenols, but also the every cell has a layer of fat phospholipid bilayer. Now I work with a lot of women in their 50s, 60s and 70s, and they have done those low fat diets of the 90s, 90s, noughties. It ages them very quickly, just like you were saying within fitness. In the modeling and the competitors, when you're having that low fat diet, it really shows on the skin, you're not plumping up the skin cells. So I think fish oil is a really good one. And we can look at lab test to see omega six to omega three ratios. If you have a lot of inflammation, fish oil is a really good one. For me, if I'm talking in terms of gut health, I'm always going to do a probiotic. I'm talking skin health. I am going to say a collagen peptide and I'm going to say a liposomal vitamin C. So when you say collagen peptide, what does that look like? How do you get that? So collagen, we want to be thinking collagen powder. I tend to do collagen powder rather than a collagen supplement, like a tablet. A, I love a lot of my supplements come from liquids and powders because they're so much easier to digest. B, we're going to get a bigger serving of collagen if we're doing it from a powder rather than doing it from a capsule. Now, why do we need to add collagen back into our diet? Well, we have processed it out. So collagen, there's no such thing as plant-based collagen. We can talk about that another time, but there is no such thing as plant-based. Actually, there is. There's one in the UK that has the same amino acid profile as a collagen, but collagen is coming from animal foods. It's coming from just kind of gross, but skin and tendon and bones and all of those parts of the animal that we have processed out of our diets. I don't know about you, but I'm not sat at home making my own bone broth. I'm not sure eating the bone marrow, all of those things. So we're going to supplement it with our collagen supplements. So good quality collagen supplement. We know that a marine source is more bioavailable to the body. So again, we want to be making sure where that's coming from. Is it sustainable? Is it coming from a clean source? Marine collagen is great. You can also do a bovine collagen. But if we're doing collagen, then we want to also make sure that we're taking vitamin C. So vitamin C and zinc. So vitamin C, essential cofactors for our protection and our synthesis of new collagen. So if you're taking your, let's say you're putting collagen in your smoothie, but you haven't got a source of vitamin C in there, you're missing a trick to help your body make that collagen. So no supplement vitamin mineral lives on its own. There's so many different cofactors that we need to support the growth, the synthesis of all of those metabolic processes. We have zinc and vitamin C and Glossy. So that's take it with your collagen. It's perfect. There you go. Yeah, there you go. Put it right in there.

=== FILE: How She Went from Homeless to $580k Homeowner in 30 Days (Part One) with Pace Morby [2bJUvykH40Q].txt ===

 when you're around people that are lunatics about their goals, it makes you have this feeling of like, how dare I not think bigger? Just one dinner with people can change your whole life. Oh my God, which is crazy to think about like where you came from. And now, the full circle, you're running masterminds and getting people out of their mindset chains and all of that kind of thing, which is freaking so cool. I know that's why I'm here. Of course. Because I like really experienced the prison that we can create for ourselves. And then all of a sudden, you do get around expanders, like yourself, and it just blows the roof off. And... Hey, welcome to the Earn Your Happy show. You're on Earn Your Happy and... The Chris Harder Show. Yes. Yes. So we have so much fun getting to interview people at the same time. And we've spent all morning actually listening to you on different podcasts, which was so much fun. So thanks for giving our workouts tons of motivation and your time. And I'm so excited to be here. And I'm so excited to be here. And I'm so excited to be here. And I'm so excited to be here. And I'm so excited to be here. And I'm so excited to be here. And, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, real estate investing type thing. I want this to be the episode where we touch on that stuff, but if somebody really wanted to know who you are and what makes you special, this is the one that they would tune into. Very cool. This'll be a unique one then. Well, fingers crossed, fingers crossed. So in that vein, I wanted to start somewhere really special because I followed along in the story and that is the story of Maddie. Oh wow, okay. I think it is one of the coolest things that I have seen on social media in years. I have a hunch it has to do with the 109 city tour that you're about to embark on. Yes sir. Would you start by telling the story of Maddie and how that happened? Yeah, it happened a long time ago. I had a brother that killed himself and my brother struggled with homelessness and drugs and all of that kind of stuff. And actually, if you even go back further, my older brother probably will never watch this podcast so I can tell you guys some stories. Come from a 12 person family, 12 kids, mom and dad on top of it, 14 person. So I'm number three out of 12 kids, changed a lot of diapers when I grew up and my brother Corbin would idolize my brother Chance and Chance would go sneak out like 16 year olds do but Corbin was like 12. So my brother Corbin would sneak out with my 16 year old brother and he started drinking, he started doing stupid stuff. Me on the other hand, I've never drank or done anything in my entire life but Corbin just fell into that vein, fell out of high school, fell out of everything, got into drugs, my parents really struggled, trying to keep him on the straight and narrow path and long story short, I couldn't find him. Like the family couldn't find him for years and when I finally found him, I was 21, I just come home from Korea and he was in a Taco Bell drive-thru. He was handing me my food. I was like, you're my freaking brother, what with me? You've been my whole, you know. Yeah. So I get him off the street, get him a good job, fly him up away from where his bad environment is because you guys know, you guys run a mastermind, you know how these things work. Your frequency is dependent upon your environment and the people you hang out with, right? So I got him away and sober, two years clean, a girl from his previous life found him, drove up there, got him back onto drugs and very quickly he fell back on the streets and ultimately killed himself. So he was my brother that I shared a room with my whole life, like very important person in my life. And I even named my first daughter after him and I always promised myself, I'm like, I'm gonna do something about that epidemic, that problem, you know, I'm gonna do something with it. When I get really good at real estate, I'm gonna figure out how can I help those people that are somewhat forgotten and give them a different pathway. So long story short, I mean, I could make a long story very long, but I ended up getting a TB show on A&E back in 2022 and they ordered six years of this show. And this recently in January, they ordered another 30 episodes and I turned them down. I said, I don't really flip houses. Yeah, I do flip houses. That's like one of the small businesses I own, but I really flip people. Like that's really what I love doing. I love flipping people and they're like, what the hell does that even mean? And I said, I wanna work with like attorney generals. I'm really good friends with like 15 attorney generals around the country and they all know they have homeless problems. And I said, I wanna work with them, find a pocket of where homeless people kind of hang out and I wanna go to them and I have this weird idea for a TB show where I grab like 200 of them, I interview them because I don't want to have the whole show about drug addiction and like mental illness. I wanna go find the people that are just struggling to survive. They have a job, maybe they're like work at Target, 18 bucks an hour and they have three kids, they can't survive. And through this process of interviewing attorney generals and what state I was gonna move to to do this TB show, I ran into a charity called Family Promise. Family Promise, all 50 states, what they do is they help families who have jobs. They're working people, but they're sleeping in their cars. I learned a really crazy statistic that one in 30 kids in America sleep in their parents' car. What? One in 30? One in 30, yeah, it's crazy. I have no idea. Yeah, it's either they sleep in their car or they sleep in like the gym or they sleep in a church or they sleep in something they don't have a house. They're unhoused. They're unhoused, yeah. And so I'm like, I wanna make a TB show about that. And A&E's like, well, how? And I go, I wanna show people how to get real estate the way I get real estate and get these people into these houses and have them cash flow and they're like, oh, it's too hard, it's impossible. I'm like, okay, and we fought back and forth and finally I just said, the universe is gonna deliver something to me and it's not gonna be through you. And I severed my contract with A&E this year. And two weeks later, I get an email from a lady named Maddie. The universe is like, here you go. You wanna do something cool? Here you go. Maddie sends me an email, I am 59 years old. I've been on the street since I was 55. My husband was murdered and I was a stay-at-home mom, never learned how to make money. And I have friends that told me they were gonna help me but I come from a background. She's half black, half Asian. She's about four foot five tall and she doesn't have the environment that you and I have. Like you guys are gonna hang out with your families today. I'm gonna go hang out with my family. She doesn't have that. So she says to her friends that say they're gonna help her. We know your husband's dead, you don't have any income, you don't know how to make money, you're a UPS driver, you can't afford the rent where you're currently living, stay with us. Things get chaotic. One thing leans to another, she sells her car, she sells her this, she sells her that. And she says, well, I'll just stay on like a park bench one night, just one night I'm gonna stay on a park bench until I figure this out. And that one night turns into four and a half years. Wow. And she, you know, from her little broken Obama phone, it's an Obama phone thing. She got it in 2020. When they're handing them out. Yeah, when they're handing them out. And that's one of the biggest things that the biggest piece of shit ever, Santa Planta. And that's the one she's still using today. She still uses it to this day. And which goes into like the next thing I'm helping her with which I'll get to. Is this interesting to you? This is amazing. Yes. Because I can talk about this all day long. No, go for it. It's the thing that lights me up right now. Because it's one thing for me to make millions in real estate, but it's another thing. It's like, if I really truly understand it, I should be able to educate a third grader, right? I should be able to dumb it down so well that anybody could do what I do. If I truly understand it as well as I say I do. So she's, you know, in her shelter, the Windermere Hotel in Mace, Arizona, two miles away from me, she sends me an email not knowing I live in Mace, Arizona. And she says, hey, I'm sending you an email. I saw your email on one of you two, on Grant Cardone. Somehow some way Grant Cardone had some screenshot with my email address. She's crazy. And it's on Grant Cardone's YouTube. Wild. Crazy. She screenshots it, sends me an email. Will you help me? I have 20 days left in the shelter. And the shelters, they have 90 day programs and they try and get you jobs, right? And if you can't get a job, they kick you out. The problem is the jobs nowadays, you can't afford a place to stay, a car, this. You need two incomes now, yes? Right, for most people. It's gotten way too expensive. It's gotten way too expensive. So I reply back and I said, I would love to help you, but I want you to understand I'm not helping you to help you. I'm helping you to show everybody else on the planet that they can do this too. So I need you to sign a media release and we're gonna hang out and I'm gonna film everything we do. Me picking you up, me dropping you off. I'm not buying you lunch. I'm not buying you anything. I'm not giving you a dollar. I'm not doing any of the work for you, but I will teach you and I will guide you and answer questions for you as long as you agree that they can all be recorded. Because I just wanna give it away to the world. Well, dude, this lady is like a gift from God. She's the, I go pick her up at seven o'clock in the morning on a Saturday morning. She's the funniest, most joyful little spark. Like she, her and I become really good friends. She sends me like sweet messages and my wife really sweet messages. The fact that this lady is on the street and if you end up getting to meet her one day, you'll go, how did you get on the street? You're not on drugs. You don't have mental illness. You just didn't have the support or more, you know, a better description would be you just didn't have the right education. So what I did is I spent a day with her and I kind of just got to hear her story, you know, why are you on the streets? What's happened over these four years? You know, tell me about the system. Tell me about your shelter and she drove me around and I just saw like the lay of the land and filmed it. And then the next day I gave her a game plan and the game plan was this. You are going to find a real estate deal for people like me. So you don't have to buy it. You're just gonna find the deal and you're gonna bring that deal to someone who's buying, fixing and flipping, renting, whatever they're doing on the back end. So she's just identifying opportunity. She's just identifying opportunity. So she's doing this from her cell phone, her broken Nokia. Like you press the screen, it takes like five seconds to reply. To respond. The screen is so bad. So she goes into a free Facebook group and she finds wholesalers. I tell her what Facebook groups to go into, what activities to do every day. And I tell her limit yourself to 30 minutes a day. And if you do this for 75 days in a row, these activities, you're gonna make 5,000 bucks on not having a license, no experience, you don't have to buy the deal and you're gonna have five grand in your pocket. Took her like eight days. Wow. Yeah, it was crazy. She should leave right away. Did she? She did. Not even a question in her mind. It's almost like if she is on drugs, it's the drug of optimism. I've never met somebody so positive in my life. And it's weird. I wish it was not that way. I wish for the story, I wish she was a pain in the ass. And I wish that there was like a negative component of like, yeah, you have a bad mindset. She doesn't have a bad mindset. She is an incredibly positive mindset. And I've been hanging out with her now for four months. And so the first deal I told her, we're gonna find a deal for somebody else. So you have no responsibility of flipping. You have to deal with contractors, like all the bullshit that people have to deal with on all these, you know, the things that scare people of getting into real estate, let's eliminate all of that. And all you have to do now is find a deal for somebody like me. So she finds somebody in a Facebook group that has a deal. She takes that deal to a buyer, buyer buys the deal. She gets paid a $5,000 fee. Wow. Okay, this is what's interesting. So she calls me up, she goes, I got a deal. Oh my gosh, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, oh my gosh, everything you said was true. I thought you were full of shit. Mike, okay, cool. Let's, like, when does it close? Eskrow, she says Friday, great. Pick her up on Friday from her shelter. And I'm thinking she's gonna get a check. Now she can get out of the shelter and we can get her into a hotel or whatever and she can move on to her next deal. Right. She now has the ability to make like five, five a week. Yeah. Right. So pick her up, go to the bank. I send her into the bank. I sit in my Prius on the outside. I'm like, I'm not gonna get involved in your shit. You go do your thing. I'm not, you know, I'm not gonna be there when you're depositing your money. She comes out three minutes later. She says, they won't let me deposit the check. They think I'm scamming them. Well, I know, I thought it was a racial thing. I'm like, you sons of bitches, like how dare you? And I walk into the bank. I go, hey, sir, what's going on? He says, Maddie, do I have permission to show him your screen? And they turn the screen, shows me her account has been negative for five years. Like this lady has not had cash, access to cash, a debit card, nothing in five years. They're walking with a check for five grand out of the blue. What do you think? They're gonna think. So I have them call the title company title company verifies the check is good. They release the money and they give her basically a hundred dollars in cash and go, this is all we're gonna make available for like 30 days. So now what she's gotta do, she's gotta go back to the shelter. Okay, so I take her back to the shelter. This is the first time I've like waited to see what happens when you drop somebody off of the shelter. Normally I just drop her off of the bus stop or I drop her off the shelter and I leave. But this time I just was like watching what goes on. I'm looking my rear view mirror and I can see they make her strip all the way down, naked, completely naked right there in 110 degree weather. They're under a tent that they has like some privacy stuff, whatnot and they go through all her stuff. I'm like, this lady just figured out how to get a real estate deal without a bank, without experience, without a license, without of this. And she's being forced to basically strip naked to go into a shelter where she has no privacy. She's on a cot, like literally like an army cot in a room, like five times the size with just a bunch of women. She showed me photos of them like it looks like a prison. But thank goodness we have them in Arizona. Arizona's like surprisingly is really good about this stuff. So she then sends me a text. She's like, please don't ever watch me go into that shelter again. I cried myself to sleep. My friend Pace had to watch me go into the shelter. And she's like, I just am so embarrassed, bubble, bono, sweetheart, don't even worry about it. We're gonna go look for the second deal. She goes, I think I already found it. Like she's just, she's just on it, bro. Despite the circumstances. Despite all the circumstances. If anyone was gonna sabotage or say, hey, I can't do it, it'd be her. It would be her. You would think she would have every excuse and every victim mentality under the sun. And she didn't. And so the next deal, this is the game plan I gave her. I said, I'm gonna work with you on your first five deals. Your first deal, we're gonna get you something where cash gets in your pocket and you can duplicate that the rest of your life. Every week you can make 20 grand a month for the rest of your life. I will take you from being homeless to a quarter million dollars a year without any experience in less than 30 days. And she's like, okay, cool. And now here she is, this little black lady, 59 years old cranking out a deal a week. That's pretty awesome. Second deal is I'm gonna get you into a house that you own and that the rest of the house pays for all your bills. And she's like, what do you mean? I'm like, okay, so for your audience, anybody that's not interested in real estate, I'm sorry, this is gonna be a real estate jargon. That was great. Okay, so the thing that's kind of taken over the real estate world right now is something called co-living. What is co-living? Co-living is where non-HAA, definitely not Scottsdale where you guys live because you guys are in Hoity, ToiDee land. And same thing with me, my neighborhood would not allow it but non-HAA neighborhoods, this is taking the whole country by storm. It's called pad split. So you take a single family house, let's say it's a four bed, three bath house, you take out the living room, turn it into a bedroom, take out the garage, turn it into two bedrooms, take out the dining room, turn it into a bedroom, you now have an eight bed, three bath house. Wow, okay. This is happening everywhere, everywhere in the country, everywhere, it's overwhelming. If you guys go to padsplit.com, your city already has hundreds of these. And basically what it is is you take the model of like student housing where you rent a room and you then apply it to adults, working adults. And you go, you wanna have a $850 rent, including utilities, including internet, including weekly cleaning, you can rent out one of these rooms in a house. Wow. So I told Maddie, I go, we're gonna find you a house that you can buy with no money out of your pocket. You can take over somebody else's payments. Okay, this is what I talk about, which is sub two. You can buy their house sub two, you move into the house, no money out of your pocket, rent out the other rooms, they pay your mortgage. She's like, that ain't happening, pays this, that and the other, it's not gonna happen, but I'm gonna do exactly what you told me to do. Dude, for date night, no joke, three weeks ago I texted my wife, I go, hey, are you cool to go to a shelter tonight for our date night? She's like, yeah, whatever, I'll go to a shelter, right? I take my truck, my wife's like, why are we taking the truck? I go, cause we're picking up Maddie from the shelter and she's moving into her very first house. She just bought a $580,000 house. No way. He took her from the shelter. So homeless to homeowner in 30 minutes, she's moving into her own house and now she's renting out the other seven bedrooms and she's net cash flowing after her mortgage is paid, after her cleaning's done, after her utilities, after taxes, after insurance, she's netting two grand a month in her pocket. Oh, and I'm just like, why is not, like why can't we do this for everybody? There's 17 million vacant homes in America. I don't know if you guys know this. There's so many vacant homes in America, it's ridiculous. So vacant vacant or maybe people own multiple properties and they're sitting vacant. Out of the 17 million, only five million of them are vacant for like a second home. The other 12, it's like 11 million, some 1000 are vacant, people don't even know who owns them. Abandoned inheritance, probates, people died, they don't know what's going on, that kind of stuff. So that goes 60, 70 million people, using the cohabitation. Yeah, and you think about like, how many people are homeless right now? 600,000, yet there's 11 million vacant homes. How is that possible? So look, I'm a capitalist, I like to make money. I like making money, but at the same time, like I wanna go actually do something cool. I don't wanna feel like a piece of shit every time I make a dollar. I wanna do cool things and like impact people. So the Maddie thing has been really fun because three weeks ago, this lady moves into a, you know, nearly $600,000 house right up here in Phoenix. And she already has seven roommates and she's making more money in her, she's worked at Waffle House, she's worked at IHOP, she's worked at UPS Store, she's worked as a UPS driver, UberLift, she's done all the things and she's like, I make more money with this one house than I did in any of those jobs, which is freaking so cool. And the fact that it's one thing for me to have a big portfolio, like we've got about half a billion dollars in real estate in our portfolio, but I would literally throw all of that away to just duplicate that every single day for this lady. Which you're about to do. Yeah, it's fun. And then we recorded every single step she did, every activity she like took and we're just giving it away. Wow. So for somebody who's like, okay, but Pace, you were, you know, you were with her, you were kind of recording her. And then what have you done to be able to duplicate that for people who are like, okay, I wanna do the exact same thing. What does that look like? Great question. For people who are like, well, you were with her. Guys, I remember like a month and a half ago, she was like, hey, they haven't released my $5,000 check yet. Can you buy me Windex? And I said, kiss my ass. I'm not buying you anything. I told, I promise you, I would help you and I would guide you, but I'm not gonna do the work. I'm not gonna buy lunch for you. She was like, but I don't have Windex at the shelter. I need Windex. I'm like, figure it out. Like if people watching this think that I helped you, they're gonna go, oh, I can't do it. She had pace. She had pace. Of course she could do it. She got Windex. She got Windex. And I'm not joking you. I was doing a YouTube live last week. I had like 4,000 people on this YouTube live and this guy goes, yeah, of course, Maddie could do it. She had you and my bro blocked, see like this whole victim mentality. People will always think that I did something for her, but I recorded every minute. We have over 120 hours of recorded content nobody will ever watch, but it's there to give it away. And so here's what I'm doing. This is like the wild lunatic in me. I said, I wanna show people this is possible, not through YouTube, not through recordings. So I went to my wife and I said, hey, I wanna go on the road for 122 days. And I wanna do a city every day, a new city every day. And I want you to pull the kids out of school. We're gonna homeschool them on the tour bus. I just bought a 40 foot $600,000 tour bus. Monster Energy paid for it, by the way. Shout out to Monster Energy. I'm so glad that worked out, by the way. It worked out, that's awesome. Freakin' awesome. That's crazy. Yeah, so anyway, the CEO of Monster calls me up. He's like, we're in whatever the bus costs work, but he goes, I wanna have a sticker on the side of the bus that says fueled by Monster. I'm like, first $600,000 done. Don't deal. Don't deal. You're like, I'll wear only Monster G shirt. I'm like, I'm like, I'm gonna look like a NASCAR driver, like only in Monster. So the tour is called Creative Nation and you can get there by growing the CreativeNationTour.com. So what I did is I go, all right, I'm gonna do a free meetup every night and I'm gonna invite everybody in town and there's gonna be a family that I got from Family Promise, the charity I referenced earlier. So Family Promise will bring a family to me and I'll go, all right guys, we have two hours to find this family, a house. And I will go start to finish. In less than two hours, I will show people all there. We're gonna team up. So I've got like 15 of my leaders. I have a really big community, like the craziest size community ever. And loyal. And very loyal. So I go to them and I go, hey guys, I need 50 leaders in every town and we're gonna create 50 teams. And each team's gonna compete to see which team can get this family a house faster than anybody else. So it's not gonna be just me and helping that family. It's gonna be me leading 50 teams. And we'll probably have 10 people per team. Our average meetup will be about 500 people. And we're just gonna show people how to find a deal, like pull it up on the software, submit offers, get it under contract and get that family into a house all within two hours. And I'll then wake up the next day in another city and do it 122 days in a row. First of all, if you don't love this man after hearing that story, then just turn this whole damn thing off. Cause how can you not love somebody that puts themselves out there, not just for one individual, but then says, how do we scale this kind of love? Do we scale this kind of impact? There's a lot of moving parts that goes behind of a tour like this. We're gonna talk about the tour in a little bit, but that just shows the kind of human being that you are and inspires other people to become successful as well. Because they say, wait a minute, if I can be successful and have that kind of audience and that kind of capital, then I can do things like this too. Yeah. You can do stuff like this. And I think also it just highlights to people that, I've been on the YouTube, Instagram, that world. And we get an average of 20 million views a month, which is nice. It's a good feeling. But I would rather have a hundred people in a room that actually get to participate in the activity than 20 million people looking at it online, just because that's where you, it's the same thing with Mastermind. Like when people mastermind with you guys, they could watch a thousand YouTube videos and not get the same value as one entirely different. It's entirely different. The molecule to molecule interaction is really where change is made. You know what we should do with Hilton, founder of Monster. When I texted him, he was so kind to respond right away and be like, yes, let's hook it up. I didn't know that they're sponsored whole bus like that. No, I was like, oh, we have him come out to like it cause he lives in SoCal by us. If you do something in Orange County, we got to have him come out for that. That'd be awesome. So his girl that is like the glow, her job is the global, like philanthropy director. Things Debbie was it? Yeah, Debbie. And she's like, come out, let's do a YouTube video. We're going to send a truck full of monster to every location. I'm like, that's a hundred and twenty cities. She's like, we got you. Unless you're going to like Fargo, North Dakota, we probably won't be like, we probably don't got you. I go, we got Fargo, North Dakota on the thing. She's like, okay, I won't be able to help you there. But it's a massive connection. And they, I told her, I don't want any money. And then she looked deeper into the thing. And thank you for that, by the way. Of course. Humongous, massive, massive. And I had a conversation, then another conversation, then third conversation, she's like, let me get this straight. You're going to go and do all of this. Like, all right, who bought the bus? Who did the this? Who did the that? And I'm like, well, I'm doing it out of my pocket. She's like, no, you're not. We're going to figure out how to pay for the whole thing. Yep. I'm like, holy crap. Wow. So it happens when people like you get together with people like that, you guys move absolute mountains. Yeah. And it's just crazy. To be honest with you, I'll tell you one of the biggest motivators behind it. I'm deathly afraid. Maybe you're, maybe you guys are in the same boat. I don't know. I'm deathly afraid of what AI and robotics are going to do in five years. Like if you don't own real estate, if you don't own a business and you don't create a moat around yourself in five years, like what the hell are you going to be doing? And so I have this massive urgency that I'm just like, wake up everybody. You need to get moving. Yet I feel like our United States has gotten lazier and lazier and lazier. And so I'm just trying to get out there in person and just shake everybody by the shoulders and go, look, this, if this homeless lady can do it, you can do it too. Hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry. I think this will be the last story that I'm going to do anything like this because I think it's just crazy. Four months, four and a half months on the road with my wife and my kids. That's wild. What did your wife say? My wife is gangster. She's like, cool. When, when do we go? What do the kids say? The kids are like, cool. Can we go to the American Doll Store in Dallas? I don't like it. You probably have to throw in the little stops and perks like that all the way. Yeah, we're stopping in like Thanksgiving and Christmas and New Year's. We're doing like four or five days in those locations we'll do Manhattan in New York for Christmas, which will be a lot of fun. We were going to ask more about the tour later, but we're on the subject, so let's lean into it. Where can people register to follow it? It's completely free, not selling anything, just helping people in person. Even if you're not in real estate, come out and see it. It's going to be a spectacle. The only thing I will sell are tacos. And what I mean by that is we'll have like taco trucks and food trucks there so everybody can eat as well. It is called creativenationtour.com, 122 cities. Yes, we are coming to Canada, three stops in Canada. All of our Canadian friends are always like, you never come to Canada. So yeah, it starts in October, it goes all the way through March. That's awesome, incredible. What would feel like a math, let's fast forward and the tour is over. And you're debriefing at a dinner maybe with your wife. Like what would feel so good to be able to sit and say and reflect on? Number one is we've helped 120 families. Number two, we've put Family Promise on the map so people know who Family Promise is. And then number three, we set the tone of the energy of that city because what happens is when I go in to do things like this in cities, I've never done 122 days in a row. I've done three or four days in a row. What happens is the energy of that city, it sticks around for like a year and a half. And then everybody's doing the same thing over and over. They're vibing and hanging out and collaborating with each other. So what I'd love to see is those people really attached to Family Promise even after I've gone and said, how do we help the next family? How do we help the next family? What Family Promise does is they find local churches that are not doing service Monday through Saturday. And they help these families live in these churches Monday through Saturday for free. And then they have to leave and sleep back in their cars on Sunday. And so these Family Promise nonprofits are all over the country. They're in every state. They need housing and they need affordable housing. They will actually pay the rent for these residences but they can only afford like 800 bucks a month. Where the hell are you gonna live for 800 bucks a month? Right. So doing co-living is really the solution to that problem. That's amazing. Okay, so when someone asks exactly what you do for anybody listening, how would you answer them? Depends on who's asking. If I wanna be funny, somebody will be like, what do you do? I go, I rent dirt. Which is like, I own a lot of RV parks as well. So I just rent dirt. And it depends. Like if it's an older gentleman and he says, what do you do for a living? I would say I help investors make a passive return. Cause I'm hoping he invests with me. I hope I can grab his money, go buy big buildings with it. If it's a young kid, I would say I have a sales organization that employs a lot of people. Because I'm hoping to recruit that young kid 18, 25, whatever to come and work for my company. But overall, I'm just a real estate investor. I acquire things with creative finance. And that's really the main thing. I have nine companies. They all do something that ties in with each other. So if I buy real estate, I also own a title company. If I own a title company, I also do lending. My lending business is where I make probably the majority of my money, but I rarely talk about it. It's just tied in with all the other things I'm doing, if that makes sense. I just found that when I was doing so much creative finance, you'd run into a...  t-t-t-t-t-t-al-company, we don't know what that is. Man, this is ridiculous. Let me just start my own. Then I started a t-t-t-al-company. I'm in 43 states. And then I found that people are constantly running into money problems. Like, I want to buy or flip this house. I want to do this, that, and the other. But my lender bailed out on me last minute ago. I'll just start a lending company. So I've just kind of done, I've just gone vertically integrated. Vertical integration. Yeah. Yeah. Here you are going on tour. That means you're going to leave these nine businesses behind. What are your tips for getting into position to be able to do that so that they keep running? Oh, yeah. Fire yourself. Like a long time ago. So a couple of things I do that's maybe unorthodox is, one, I hire really good people. That's not an unorthodox. But what I do is I make my leads and my companies own 20% of everything that I do. So let's say I go buy an RV park, for example. We just bought a $5 million RV park a couple of weeks ago. Sell all seller finance, which is great. So no banks. I give 20% of that to my top 12 people. And so they, if they stick with me past seven years, that 20% as it grows, appreciates. I distribute that 20% to those top 12 people. So you give them ownership mentality instead of saying, hey, I'm going to give you a raise. And if you work really hard, it's like, how about this? If you stick around and the company hits its numbers and we grow and I don't have to be here, you get 20% of this company. So everything we buy. Every product we create, every single thing we do, they all have ownership in it. So as it rises, then what I do is I train them on what my job is. My job is not to be in here. I'm Ronald McDonald. I should be on the billboard. I should not be flipping the burgers. If I was in the kitchen, you're going to be tripping over my big ass red shoes. You don't want me in here. I'm going to create chaos. You guys need me out of the office. Get me out there being on the billboard, being on the stages, et cetera. And when I do that, we all make more money. And so I think a lot of employees don't really truly understand what a visionary's job is and a visionary, you know, Ronald McDonald is a visionary. Elon Musk is a visionary. He should not be at the warehouse every day. He should be on podcasts. He should be branding the company. So he should be flying around, hanging out diplomats and doing all that kind of stuff. And when your team understands why that benefits them and how that benefits them, then they full on buy in. When I was like, gosh, I shouldn't be in the office. I should be out, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's like, why don't they get it? Oh, because you've never stopped and explained it to them. So I whiteboard when new people come into our exec team, I whiteboard to them why it's a problem if I'm in the office and how they make more money when I'm out of the office. This is interesting because the 20% thing by sheer coincidence, my startup, Frollo, my business partner, Matt and I, so keeping all the equity for ourselves, we carved out 20% right away. All the founding execs smart so that they had that skin in the game to be able to go and you know, give it give their all to this, the sleepless nights, everything to get this thing off the ground. So it's interesting that that's your pattern as well. What's up? What's the hardest thing for you as a visionary to let go of? Okay, so I do this every year. And the last week of the year, I sit down with my CEO, her name is Molly. And we go through my whole entire calendar from the last year. And we write down 100 things that I did more than one time. So if I did it twice, we write it down. Give an example. Waiting in an airport. Okay. Like why am I waiting in an airport for two hours? Like if it's on my calendar is like blocked out minute by minute. Why are you waiting in an airport over and over? Like why was that not scheduled better? Why was it? Why wasn't that blah, blah, blah, blah? You shouldn't be sitting in these situations or good example would be yesterday. I was a couple of days ago, I was in Jersey. So I meet with Gary V in the morning. I then go to Brooklyn to meet with some company called WAP. I then go to this company back over in Harlem and you look at the pattern of like how it was scheduled out. And my COO will look at that and go, we wasted four hours of your day. And so those types of things. And we'll go and we'll spend a whole week together between Christmas and New Year's, which is like the slowest part of the year. You can actually sit down and have these meetings. And she will then her job every year is to eliminate 75 of those and then figure out what are the 25 that made the company the most money that I did. And she'll go, these are the only 25 things you can do this year. And you need to get better at them. And so then I go to masterminds. I go invest in those 25 things. So one of those things would be storytelling. If I'm a good storyteller, then my company makes my mind. Okay. Well, Molly knows that. So Molly says, you need to go pay to learn how to be a better storyteller. So I'll then go join masterminds to go get better at those 25 things that are written down specifically for me. Then she takes those 25 things to the rest of the team and go, if it doesn't have to do with any of these 25 things that pace is supposed to be doing, please don't ever go to pace. Don't ask pace a question. If you can't get a hold of me, whatever else, these are the only 25 things they should be thinking about every single day. Because she understands, I told her, I said, I'm a tool for you. Yep. I'm a drill. I'm a shovel. I don't know what you want to call me, but I am a tool for you to make more money. You need to sharpen me. You need to make me better. You need me free, free me up from doing all the things. And she made, she made this funny joke. She's like, you ever used a drill as not only a drill, but then you turn around and use the bottom of it as a hammer. She's like, that's what that's not what they're meant to be used for. The company is using you for way too many things. I've used a drill to open a box, like just take the thing and cut the tape. I've used a drill to screw in a screw, pull things out. I've used a drill to punch through things. I've used a drill to smash the bottom of a hammer. And she's like, we want to use you specifically what you're good for. So I have a girl that gets paid incredibly well to keep me out of the way of all of the things. And then to articulate the rest of the team, like Pace loves you and appreciates you, but that dude needs to focus on these 25 things and nothing else. And she's a, she's an MVP, isn't she? She's an MVP. That's awesome. Yeah. You mentioned so many times masterminds environment from the beginning you talked about getting your brother out of the environment he was in. Trying to help Maddie get into a different environment. You know, I even heard on a podcast talking about your first marriage and just being in the different mindset of somebody who doesn't support where you're at. Tell me how you feel about environment. And then how are you going to also help them kind of keep that environment up after that? The cool thing about our community is we hang out 30, we have 39 zooms a week. And so we spend a lot. Is that it? Yeah, that's it. I just was like time zones and then people have different work schedules and I just go, how do I just make our community available 14 hours a day across all the time? How many of those are you on? I'm on seven or eight depending on what I want to do. And then I have other high level leaders around the rest of the zooms and they're on various topics. So like some people come in and go, I want to learn about RV parks. You have two zooms about RV parks, et cetera. So that is always, that's been going on for five years. And so that's why our community is so loyal and so vibrant and like energetic. So don't worry about them changing their vibration after I leave. But I also do one thing I do really, really well is I do the thing that Jesus did not saying I'm Jesus at all, but I watched what Jesus did. What did Jesus do? Jesus says, I can't do all this on my own. So I'm going to go find 12 disciples. Yep. Well, I have a lot more disciples. I have amazing leaders. I have about 5000 leaders nationwide, about 100 of them in every state, almost 50, you know, 25 to 50 of them per big city. And so I don't really have to worry about that vibration staying there because they do meetups every single week or every other week, even when I'm not there. So I don't need to worry about that. But all of them came to my mastermind or all of them came to my world and I injected that energy into them. Where did I get that energy? Well, I got that from other masterminds. And like you guys run a mastermind, I'm sure you guys run into clients that, you know, they want to invest. They want to invest in themselves. They want to be in your mastermind, but they have a spouse or they have a thing back at home that's like, why are you going to a mastermind? You know, type of thing. I was that same dude. I was the guy. I was a blue collar guy that, you know, if it's meant to be, it's up to me. And if I, if it's going to get done, it's going to get done by me. So I had a blue collar mentality that why would I pay anybody for education? Like, you know, figure it out on my own, you know, type of thing. And then I got a mentor age 27 by force. Who was it? Steve Mixta made me hire a guy named John Boehm. So Steve Mixta, loan officer, number one in the state, number five in the country. And I went on and I became a loan officer on this team. He says, everybody on my team has to have a personal one-on-one coach and you have to invest $500 per hour on this coach or else you're off my team. And now in my mind, I'm like, 500. This is so dumb. This is the dumbest shit ever. What are you talking about? So I pull up, I invest the 500 bucks, this guy named John Boehm. And he goes, all right, meet me in my office. Here's my office. Send me an address. I pull up to the address. It's a Starbucks building. I'm like, this, this mother just took me for 500 bucks. And I walk in and I just like begrudgingly, you know, sit down and within three minutes, this guy changed my life. Wow. He called me out on my bullshit and called me out on my this and that he goes, you're out of alignment with your assignment. I'm like, what does that mean? He says, you were put on this earth, dude, this, this, this and this. Why are you doing this? This and this. And I could tell very authentically, he was talking to me. He wasn't giving me like a canned response. And at the end of the hour, I was just like, I could not wait to come back. I felt like everybody else in life, like my mom, my dad, my parents, they all had it like an interest in telling me what I should be doing with my life, partly because I don't know if you've experienced this with your father, but I think a lot of men experience like my, your dad's going to invest time and energy into you to a point that you get certain like success to a certain level. But at some point, a he can't help you any, any more beyond that or B he secretly doesn't want you to be more successful than him. And this was the first guy that I felt like was non biased, gave me honest advice and gave me clear direction that I could follow within an hour. I was like, can I give you a 500 a week tip? Literally like, and my life changed from that point. This guy ended up, he fired me six months later because he went and got, you got hired as the head mindset coach of the Arizona Cardinals. Oh, wow. Amazing. Yeah, he was that good. And so that changed. Oh, but bargain at 500 bucks an hour. I know he was, he was under, under charged. He, his team reached out to me recently because I reached out and it was like, he haven't connected with John in a while. Like what's he charging? I was like, I'm just gonna sit down with him and they were like, he's $10,000 an hour. And I was like, worth it. Sign me up. I'd love to just connect with him for an hour. Yep. Anyway, so I, I saw the fruits of my labor. I'll tell you the second time I sat down with him, this was an interesting part of the story of master mining and like paying for coaching. I walk into that same Starbucks. He's sitting down looking at the door. I'm walking in and he stands up and he says, you're fired. Get the hell out of here. I was like, I'm fired. What do you, I'm fired. What are we talking about? I just got here. And he goes, yeah, but I can tell you didn't do your homework. Wow. I go, how do you, how can you tell? He goes, I can tell by the way you're walking, by the way you're this, I can do that. You didn't do your homework. I can see it in the way your shoulders leaned here. Wow. Your confidence level is not at all time high. If you had done your homework from last session, you would have walked in here just, yeah, gusto, get the hell out of here. Wow. So I begged him, I begged this guy, please give me this last hour. I will do whatever he goes. Okay. We're going to do the session and instead of me teaching you, now we have to do this homework together, pull out your gosh damn phone. We're going to do the homework together right now, like a child. You paid me 500 bucks to babysit you like a bitch. I'm like, oh my gosh. You know, sometimes you need to be called out of the crash. So he makes me pull out my phone. The thing he told me to do at the time I was like, open door, offer pad and Zillow where the big company is I was working for, I was a contractor and I was doing all their construction. But I was doing it where I was picking up the phone, doing the estimates, collecting the bills, doing the, I was doing all the things. Okay. We've all been there. Yeah. And he told me to hire somebody. Guys, I was taking home. I would, this sounds so stupid. I was taking home a million dollars a year at age 28 working as a contractor and I was fearful of spending $3,000 a month on an employee. Wow. Where'd that money mindset fear come from? Do you know? Yeah. My dad. I watched my dad still to this day. My dad literally texted me last week. He saw me. I was on Tony's Robin stage like three months ago. My dad's always loved Tony Robbins. He's like, man, I just, you know, he starts asking me questions like, how have you built this? How have you done the thing? My dad's 67, 68 still sprays cabinets. Every employee he's ever hired, he scares them out. He yells at them. He doesn't delegate well. And so my dad has all, I watched it. My dad, anytime he found a new employee, he would sabotage that relationship with that employee to the point where he, it was like his own belief system was that he didn't deserve that level of success. And so he would sabotage himself back to where he believed he deserved to be. So what did I learn? I learned have bad partnerships and don't delegate. And if you do delegate, do it temporarily just long enough, you can complain and blame somebody else. That's what I learned. John Boehm fixed that in me in one month. Wow. He forces me right there in that second session to hire somebody. I go on Craigslist. I hire a girl named Anna Martinez. I hire her guys. This was so, this was so crazy about hiring too. Like I didn't realize that there's somebody on the other end of the hiring process, an employee that's praying to God for an opportunity that you are stupidly not offering because you're afraid of hiring somebody. This girl, Anna, I call her, she calls me off the Craigslist ad that John Boehm basically has to make me do. And she calls me up. She goes, I want the job. I have experience. She didn't. Um, and I'm ready to start tomorrow. Great. Are you in Arizona? Yes. She's not. So she drives all night long guys with her two kids in her car to start the next day. Wow. From California to Arizona. This woman triples my business in the next 30 days. How? Picking up the gosh dang phone. Yeah. Like I, I, I'm my phones in my pocket. Like, you know, I'm on a podcast right now, but at the time I wasn't doing podcasts. So I'm doing an estimate with one customer and I can't pick up a phone from another customer. Obvious shit. Yeah. Like what? I never thought to mitigate that. I was afraid of hiring somebody because it cost money. Dang. It cost. Well, I could reinvest that same $3,000 into my business. Oh my gosh. Now today come between all my companies. I have 600 employees. John Boehm. Thank you, bro. The best money I ever spent my entire life was with a coach. By far the best money I've ever spent was investing in myself and educating and like erasing all the mindset stuff. And then, then I got into masterminds, right? And like group thing and getting in the frequency like you guys will hold your mastermind at your house, right? We do all the same. And then some are a little bit bigger. Okay. So like the fact that somebody at your level would invite people in their home is an insane opportunity because you can see how people live. When we did you guys grow up rich? No. Okay. So we didn't even know growing up what rich people lived. Yeah, no, no clue. Right? No clue. Good example, getting around the right people. So like 10 years ago, I told my wife, we need a nanny. We need a nanny. We need a nanny. We really need a nanny. You should be working on these other things and you shouldn't do that. Okay, great. She could hear that all day long, right? Then one day we go to dinner with Dean Graziosi and Lisa Graziosi. And Lisa and my wife are on the other end of the table and they're having a conversation, you know, they're 10 feet away and I can hear the words nana nani. Nani. It was nani. I'm like, oh, good. They're having a nanny conversation. So I'm talking to Dean and then my wife and I are driving home and my wife goes, you know, I think of a good idea. I think we should get a nanny. You're like, that is a great idea. That was my answer. I didn't say. I've been telling you this. That's a great way to fail, man. I said, sweetheart, that's such a great idea. How can I support you in that idea? Right? But it didn't come from me. It came from her peer. Yeah, totally. And it's the same thing when people go to your mastermind, they get around people that are on the same frequency, on the same trajectory or at least wanting to be on the same trajectory. They're not being judged for wanting to grow. We've all been around friends and family members from the past that are like, wait, what, Lori, why do you want to grow more? What do you need more for? Yeah, you should slow down. We talking about God put me on a mission on this planet. I should not be slowing down. In fact, I should not be hanging out with you. Right. And where do we get that energy? It's 100% of the time it comes from masterminds that I go to. Okay, I want to dig into that for a second because that hits such a vein for me and my family and having to like break out of that pattern. And I was raised in a really restrictive religion where it was actually it was frowned upon to make money. And I was just a witness. Okay, I just hung out a whole day with Joe as witness. Oh man, the money mentality is real. And I was from a very small town, like teeny tiny. So the congregation that I was in was like literally 114 people in the way that they thought and couldn't hang out with anyone who was worldly. And this is how I grew up. So like what I thought was possible was only what I saw within that. And we were very much like trailer home population was most of that congregation from a very small town. Market Michigan, Michigan, so not even lower Michigan like up to the woods. So you were an Uber. The Uber. Yes. Um, so for me, like seeing anything outside of that, when I started having these different dreams, it was very much like, I, it wasn't just we're going to say mean things to you to try to get you to stay or be like, who do you think you are? It was like, you are going to be cast out. Like you're not going to be a part of this family or religion anymore. Which is really scary because human beings have this tribal mentality of like, oh my gosh, survival, survival. Like your whole like your amygdala and everything in your brain is like, Lori, this is like, you're going to die survival. You're going to die. The tribe is not is going to cast you out for sure. And I watched it happen. You know, I watched it over and over. So for people who are in a situation, maybe not even that intense, but it feels like that. It feels it feels like that if someone's listening to you right now and they're like, Oh my God, I really want to do this. I feel like I'm made for this, but I'm about to go through this with my family. I have to break these patterns the way that my dad thinks of what they're about to say. Like, how do you start to deal with like knowing you're not a bad person and moving through all of that stuff by kind of moving on from your family? Yeah. Did you have the same problem growing up? My family was really supportive of dreams and dreaming. It was a very different environment than Lori grew up in. It's good that you guys got together. Yeah. Oh my God. You have no idea how much belief I've borrowed from this human being. Yeah, it's awesome. Yeah, it's been life changing. Jehovah's Witness also, which is interesting, like every religion is weird. Yeah, for sure. My religion's weird. Every one of them is weird. Yeah. I'm Mormon, so I got a list of 50 weird things we could go through. But like you guys also don't believe in like blood transfusions. Correct. Which is like when you really get into like that level of belief of like you're dying, but we're not taking blood from another human being. I carried a little blood card when I was young. That was like no blood, no matter what. Isn't that crazy? No, I they every religion has amazing aspects to it. But the bad aspect of a religion is that the people in that religion will beat you down. Yes. The church might be perfect, but the people definitely are not. And that's what we found. It was like and it's different from place to place. I'm sure with the Mormon religion, too, like sometimes they're way more strict over here and way less strict over in this one. Like it's it's very different from place to place that you go because the people, the people are different. The leadership is different. I was 30 years old playing golf with my friends and I ordered an Arnold Palmer. OK, anybody that doesn't know what an Arnold Palmer is, I lemonade and iced tea. Yeah. My friend, Tyler Mormon walks over to me. He says, I'm 30, by the way. He says, I thought your mom raised you better than that. Oh, well, for what? He was you're having tea. Mormons are allowed to have. Yeah. Mm hmm. And like the tannins inside of tea as well that will like stain your organs. And my oh my gosh, Fudge out of here. Oh my gosh. That was the last time I talked to Tyler and Tyler, you've texted me multiple times and I've ignored your text message. I'm going to continue to ignore the text messages. I like the shout out on the podcast. Zero negativity. And poor Tyler. Poor Tyler. So I would tell you, you know, it's even I had breakfast breakfast with Gary B. A couple of days ago and he's talking about this big, massive thing he's working on. And when you're around people that are lunatics about their goals and they're so passionate about their goals, it really makes you start realizing how small you are. And it makes you have this feeling of like, how dare I not think bigger? I think when you listen to other people's goals, it gives you permission. I'll give you a good example. A good friend of mine here locally, his name's Steve Trang. Steve Trang is a real estate dude. Probably 10 years ago, he says to me, goes, yeah, and I, you know, blub, blah, blah, blah, why opened up a title company? And I look at him, I go, we can do that. Yeah. He goes, yeah, bro, like you can just do stuff. And I'm like, okay, much like coming from your little town, how many times have maybe this man or other people in your environment, especially in Scottsdale, they go do stuff and you're like, we can just do that. Just one dinner with people can change your whole life. Oh my God, which is crazy to think about like where you came from, how you probably still have a little bit of that residual that you have to continually remind yourself like. And now the full circle, you're running masterminds and getting people out of their mindset chains and all of that kind of stuff, which is freaking so cool. I know, I know that's why I'm here. Of course. Because I like really experienced the, the prison that we can create for ourselves. And it feels so real. Feels very real when you're in it. And then all of a sudden you do get around expanders like yourself and it just blows the roof off. It's like you make it so possible for people. That's why I'm so excited about your tour and what you're about to do. Because that's, that's going to be what happens over and over is because in your body, it's so real. And to you, it's so simple because you've done it so many times. And to everybody listening, like it doesn't take some massive like college or, you know, it doesn't even sometimes doesn't even take like a year or a month. Sometimes it can be as little as being in your energy. I think of that even with Gary V. Sometimes I listen to one Gary V podcast and I'm like, I'm going to fucking do everything. Yeah, just like blows the lid off. And so I'm excited for you that you are taking that 120 days to just go impact in person.

=== FILE: How to Future-Proof Your Finances & Build Momentum in the AI Age (Part Two) with Pace Morby [wrZvkGQTAcE].txt ===

 why have a lot of us had transformations in our lives? Because there's probably a moment in your life you're like, I have no choice. Mm-hmm, right? Multiple. It's so real to both of us that we're like, oh no, that could happen again. If my pipeline is not always getting full somehow, I'm anxious, and I don't think that's a bad thing. If you use fear, it can propel you forward. That's what I choose to do. I go, I have no choice. I will continue to build momentum, because the worst thing when you've lost it all is you've lost it all and you have no momentum on top of that. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. Actually we'll see what we'll see. real when you're in it and then all of a sudden you do get around expanders like yourself and it just blows the roof off. It's like you make it so possible for people. So I'm so excited about your tour and what you're about to do because that's going to be what happens over and over is because in your body it's so real and to you it's so simple because you've done it so many times and to everybody listening like it doesn't take some massive like college or you know it doesn't even sometimes it doesn't even take like a year or a month sometimes it can be as little as being in your energy. I think of that even with Gary Vee sometimes I listen to one Gary Vee podcast and I'm like I'm gonna fucking do everything. Yeah, 100% It just like blows the lid off and so I'm excited for you that you are taking that 120 days to just go impact in person. I've done weird things like that before and I just know that like and I have a good buddy of mine that has a rule in his life. He has 10 kids married at age 20 his wife and him she's 18 they had to move their wedding date back they realized that she wasn't going to be 18. Oh, wow. On the wedding date they're oh shit we should move the wedding back so you're 18. Probably. Just a dedicated family guy but his number one thing I took I took from him is he says I move every three years to reinvent myself. Wow. As long as I've known him for 15 years he's done it. He goes all right all 10 kids and me and the wife we're moving to a completely different state to a place we don't know anybody we go like they're in Nashville or Knoxville, Tennessee now they just bought a 40 acre farm and they'll be there for three years and then they'll go all right everything we built we're going somewhere else and they go build something else somewhere else but they're building relationships they're getting out of their comfort zone they're getting out and so he says my job is to make my children's comfort zone feel like their comfort zone should be discomfort if that makes sense totally because so many people are watching this right now that well I want to do this but like I'm afraid of this I'm afraid of that I don't want to disrupt the status quo. Guys there's somebody watching this podcast right now that needs to leave their spouse there's somebody here that needs to leave their boyfriend or their girlfriend there's somebody here that needs to abandon some of your friends and go find new friends there's somebody here that needs to invest in themselves get into a mastermind how do people get to your mastermind by the way? Chris hearted out me forward slash mastermind. Okay cool so there's somebody here that needs to get around expanders like what Laurie said and you're gonna have a hard time with that because you're amygdala look up the amygdala holy crap it's like the greatest thing if you understand the stupid little almond shaped part of your brain is controlling every activity you do and the fear that you have on a daily basis it's all controlled by your amygdala it wants to keep you comfortable and it wants to save you from exerting energy there's somebody watching and they're like well that sounds like work yeah so does living a shitty life yep you know it sounds like a lot of work to me I don't want to have anything to do with that. I want to point out you're not saying this from theory you're not preaching from a pedestal you've gone as far as you left your first wife because she didn't support the dreams of entrepreneurship would you unpack that for us? Yeah um Mormon guy who didn't have sex until he was married that's a big deal for a dude I just want to point out that was a big sacrifice. Talk about it. I did not it's like I felt like I'd make out with a girl in high school and I thought I was gonna go to the devil's for straight and she got saved by a panel about it. I understand. Right so I like that's where I came from so I get married you know get married in the Mormon temple marry a good Mormon girl what do Mormons what are we known for get married early we have kids fast right I come from a family of 12 kids and get married married early and have kids early so I love being a Mormon I still am a Mormon so I just think a lot of Mormons suck so and so does the culture around a lot of religion because it gets everybody really stuck but I figured out how to be Mormon without being in the crap so we get married we're together for four years and then I say I want to have kids and she's like well maybe next year this turns into a thing and then long story short we go to a therapist therapist goes she loves you but she truly doesn't ever want to have kids I'm like okay what else do I not know about you yeah and then she tells me I don't want you to be an entrepreneur wow and like why she's like because I just never know when we're gonna have money like we've always had money what are you talking about yeah but what if one day we don't have money this became a thing so I quit my business and I went and applied for a job at go daddy you were making decent money at the business right like 300 400 grand take home okay yeah yeah it's great I was 24 that's huge for that yeah this is 20 years ago so like that's like that's like that's like that is ballin out I was ballin out of two cars dude holy shit yeah so I think hard workers don't have a problem making money I've never had a problem making money I've always figured out like you apply yourself you're gonna make money especially in today's day and age like there's just so few people actually want to work but anyway so I go and I go through the two week orientation at go daddy right down here in Tempe and I went to go daddy because I had a friend that was in their executive account so it was making like half a million dollars I go okay well that sounds like a job I don't need a college to agree for and like I could talk to really cool companies and I could maybe learn how to do things myself and you know this would be before Bob Parsons sold the company and so I go there two week orientation and then they walk me to my desk on day one and I look down at the cubicle and it might as well been the depths of hell like I look at this desk and I said I'm not sitting down there I know this is not happening you could see the chair the little office chair had been used by 50 people before me a revolving door of sales people that are just going through all the farts that have been like all the bullshit and I was like no so I walked out of go daddy the day on day one of my job I call my my ex-wife now and I said if this is the person you want me to be you married the wrong person can't be fart chair pace nope yeah I'm not sitting on fart chair so and a lot of other things too I just I'm not going to be told what to do I'm just I was either I don't know if I was born you're unemployable I'm unemployed a lot of us are you guys are on yep yep so I um I made a decision and I ripped off the band aid got divorced and then met my wife a year later which is awesome amazing and I met a woman I met a woman for you met out there when you guys are still dating find a freaking woman who is married to an entrepreneur she will understand the lifestyle and it's normal for her like my daughters we do not say the word job in our house wow I do not want my daughter's even knowing what a job is I do not want my daughter's marrying a guy that has a job I want my daughter daughter's marrying a guy who creates jobs and so I we talk about what does dad do for a living dad creates jobs so when they grow up my daughters like we are married I'm marrying a dude that creates things now it doesn't have to be jobs but I want to marry a guy that creates things and makes value you know provides value to the marketplace rather than being told what to do every single day so and ironically here we are in labor day the day that is like a day off and working out of bad asses right here working here with you in the studio and here we are working ran and Danny yeah you guys are in the same mindset as I am so I am allergic to it I don't I don't want to be around people I here's the problem I am so I I'm like I absorb everybody's energy I'm an empath and if your energy is negative I find myself being a dick four minutes later what happened because I am not myself I know myself is I am nothing but a sponge I will sponge my environment I will sponge thoughts from other people and sadly that is just the way maybe it's just me but I feel like that's every human being as well you brought up your kids yeah and they're being raised watching you be wildly successful if they couldn't inherit any of your business and if they couldn't inherit any of your money what is one belief system that you would want them to inherit from you okay notice where there's a missing piece of value in the environment you're in and provide that value so for example my son Asher he at age 15 I pushed entrepreneurship on him and I don't know if he's not ready for it or it's just not him but I push it on him he bought three rental properties guess what he's the only friend of his that doesn't have to work a job he gets 1800 bucks comes in every single month from his rentals and he's never had to work which is awesome I gave that to him so at age 16 I told him you're not going to have a job like your friends but you need to do something I'm going to tell you you need to go become a pilot because I think that's a skill that would be would give you confidence you feel great it's going to be so uncomfortable learning about you know the tachometer and the this and the barometer blah blah blah blah all the things when you find something that's cooler than that I will let you replace being a pilot but as of right now you need to stay as being a pilot cool he goes and gets his license he's in love with it he then is like well what do I do now I go keep growing go get new certifications but I now want you to go get a job at a mechanic a pilot like an airplane mechanic sure so he has the thing that he's learned a long time his boss calls me up he goes I don't know what is up with your kid I was like oh shit what did he do he's a good kid yeah I go oh what what's going on he goes he's the only guy that does not sit down he notices things in the shop that need to be done that my crew have been here 15 years have not thought to do he reorganized these things he came over here and cleaned this he noticed the bathroom was dirty he cleaned the bathroom it's not even on his job list they go because I taught my kids that if they have it if they need a job list they should be shot in the leg and so my son is practicing exactly what that thought is which is what is the market missing what is the value you can bring to the market and just bring it don't ask for permission and so I was with him this morning I go how's the job and he goes he goes I think I could own one of these companies one day because he's paying attention to like what's missing who isn't doing doing their job where can I provide value to that person and also don't be a brown nose like go to the guys that are falling behind their job and go hey I want to learn how to do what you're doing can I help with your role after hours and so he's become friends with all the other mechanics as well simultaneously so just you know politicking and stuff that's all I love that I feel like you know there's that's what my dad did for me truly and I every job I had it was like I did I did the craziest things like I would move everything in the back room and scrub the floors and they'd be like what are you doing like it was dirty yes it's my and it is paid off so much I can't even tell you because I have gone from job to job didn't graduate didn't get a high school diploma how am I where I'm at it's truly because I was the most valuable person at every single job yeah I didn't wait like is education really that important like formal education right I think being around the right people right environments your dad obviously being a mentor of yours and then applying yourself and actually just doing the thing and noticing stuff that other people don't like you're in the point 0001 percentile yeah of people on the planet like it's impossible for you not to be successful he was you know looking back it's all the things that I really resented him for though I'm sure your kids have moments of resenting you which is great because you're forcing them to do things they wouldn't naturally do and I'm so grateful for like all of the like the hard work and all of those moments how are you like outside of obviously helping your kids you know create these experiences for themselves you know you have a great life and your kids probably have a really great life how do you recreate challenges for them struggle I haven't quite figured that out because like here's the thing is you get to a point where you have money you know probably like 15 years ago you get to a point where you have enough money that you're like okay we fly first class we drive the cars we want to drive we do the things and we're not eating McDonald's like my dad ate McDonald's every meal for us because it was affordable for like 15 kids right we're like well mom and dad want to have no boo so I guess you kids are also having no boo so I haven't quite figured that out yet one thing I just know that my kids go with me to our events my kids meet all the other kids um Asher for example this is interesting so Asher had experiences that he's 17 now he had his he had experiences in my real estate industry or business that I think the girls will never have I used to go on a lot of appointments right like people were being foreclosure and I'd go to their house and I'd sit in their living room and they stopped paying their power bill months ago and so it's 140 freaking degrees in their house no fan no nothing Asher I remember when he was eight years old he would go on appointments with me two three times a week and I would ask him why did we not buy that house well I think that leaves him denial I think this is happening like he just got to a point where he'd been enough appointments sure enough exposure what the opposite side of you know wealth looked like so for my my daughter's one thing that we do is we do this really fun thing where we go save a hundred families in um I'll make it simple for people Pakistan we go to Pakistan do you just know how many people are in slavery right now no oh my gosh this is the weirdest thing if you ever get a chance to look this up 23 million people are currently in slavery right now what at brick kilns across the globe what okay so what happens is these people that are in just third world countries 23 million people are in actual slavery and they're in slavery over a $500 bill that their grandfather incurred like 40 years ago and what they do is they work for about a dollar a day making bricks for brick kiln the brick kiln is also simultaneously banks in these cities all over the world and so what happens is you go to the brick kiln and you go you're the richest thing in in town I need a $500 thing paid for my daughter needed a such-and-such surgery and I have no money for it no problem just work at the brick kiln you have to make 1500 bricks a day and I'll give you two dollars one dollar goes towards the materials one dollar goes towards your debt well the problem is now they don't have money to survive so they just take that dollar to survive on right so we go there and we'll take our family and we'll go free a hundred families we'll we'll pay off their $500 debt build them the $3,500 house and then give them like a $1,500 like tool setup that they can go do and build their own business and they go from making two dollars a day to seven dollars a day and my kids watch this in person and they are so much more thankful they see the other side and of course we're at homeless shelters and stuff like that I don't know that I want to take my kids through what my parents made us go through like yeah the lawn and doing all the things like it worked for you and me I don't know I gotta read but there could be a different way if you find a suggestion please text me we do know a lot of kids who were raised very much like your kids are being raised and they're incredible like I think there's a lot of stations are being had there's multiple paths you know there's multiple I think one thing about parents like when we were all growing up I don't think they were as equipped as we all are today to like educate and have these conversations like what you're saying Chris is like I can have that conversation like my dad never talked to me about money yeah my mom never talked to me it was taboo and they're still my parents are still to this day watching their thermometer or their thermostat like who turned the air conditioning down to 70 degrees oh my gosh it's like a scene in the house I'm like I will give you $100 so every time I come over here I can turn the AC down to 76 degrees like what the freak it's water in our house to you know my parents also and like leave the shower on I want to shift gears for a minute with this after that you're an absolute legend as a person right thank you but people need to know as a business individual you're an absolute legend as well and I know you're known for creative financing and finding properties with zero down but if I came to you and I said hey paste you know I've got an extra hundred grand or 200 grand and I really want to get into this does that accelerate it where would you tell me to put that money or is it really go acquire these things zero down okay so if you had a hundred or two hundred thousand dollars and you have zero experience you don't know how to find the deal manage the deal you don't know how to exit the deal meaning like you know we bought an RV park a couple months ago that we are renovating cleaning it up putting a cell tower there we're adding value and two years I'll sell it for double if you don't know how to do all of those things putting a hundred or two hundred thousand dollars into real estate the number one way I would do that is find an operator that you admire okay so for me that would be like Ken McElroy freaking love Ken McElroy's here in the valley he also manages all of rich all of Robert Kiyosaki's assets like he's the guy that made Robert Kiyosaki actually credible Robert Kiyosaki's a little bit of a lunatic shout out Robert I love you but you are lunatic the guy who made him not such a crazy lunatic is Ken McElroy so I would find an operator like that that's buying and building big multifamily deals and go I want to just invest with you typically your investment's going to give you somewhere around a 20% return somewhere in that realm but you're going to get educated on what that operator is doing so now not only do I get the 20% return but I get to get educated on that asset type and I get to ask questions and be part of the their circumference and then I can maybe one day be an operator on my own yes being the operator you make all you make all the money so like for example here's the difference I have a loan I have a business that we do like business loans and my average loan will give me a 40% return in like eight months okay okay so I have a 500,000 dollar loan this is like factoring or yeah it's factoring yeah that's a great way of saying it yeah but we do some factoring some other things as well so a lot of bridge financing so somebody goes I'm buying a business and I need 500,000 the business is already cash flowing and it's it's good but I my lender won't be able to close for eight months perfect I'll bridge that gap right so I'll do a lot of bridge financing as well I'll finance that purchase tomorrow 550,000 and in eight months I'll get a return of my 550 plus I'll make like 280,000 on that loan well where did I get that money from somebody who said Pace I have money I want to invest but I don't know what to do with it they give me their money I give them a 10% return and I go make 40 50 60% with their money so operators make the majority of the money so find an operator that you like and is willing to teach you what they're doing give them a couple hundred grand if you gave somebody a couple hundred grand they're going to be so excited they'll take you to dinner okay so I would find an operator you really like and just give it to them we make way more money than stock market yep a lot of times we make more money than bitcoin like a multi-family investment is not going to make you as much as bitcoin I think bitcoin's been going like 30% year over year but like business lending we're making 50 60% year over year so go find people that are doing what I'm doing invest your money with them if you don't want to learn how to do what I do which is not easy what I do is not easy it requires skills to get in people's living rooms it requires negotiations it requires follow-up consistency which is the number one human like problem consistency but I love that question a lot of people ask me I have a hundred grand what should I do with it I go burn it learn how to buy real estate with no money give it to your mom I don't care what you do with the hundred grand don't use your own money but to answer your question specifically give it to somebody you trust that will teach you how to be an operator it's a great answer how has your investment shifted especially with AI like what are you not investing in anymore what are you going for right now like what are you great question okay so number one I just sold the company today I'm getting out of it like today today today today wow yeah thank you I'd like to hear the congrats but the reality is I should have sold it five years ago for 10 times more money so I had an offer on the table it's the company is a virtual assistant company I have in the Philippines about 300 employees and I had an offer five years ago for 10 million dollars and I was like 10 million dollars kiss my ass I could make this thing A-50 million dollar company easy well I turned it out and same amount of employees same revenue completely different multiple why because they're humans okay so the name I won't tell you the name of the company because I just sold it today we're in escrow but that company I just sold it for a million dollars nothing has changed in those five years except for AI okay so what is attacked to that company there's another company and there's 10 of them now that come out every single week but the company that really hurt us was a company called prop.AI prop.AI is an AI cold collar it's a thousand dollars a month and it will cold call all your leads so real estate um medical billing I don't give a shit what it is and it is so effing good yeah that you're like the Philippines are not going to have any money no because the Philippines is like 30% of their GDP comes down to customer support and like cold call centers yep so I'm staying away from anything that can be disrupted by AI and um I'm doubling down on things that are affordable housing because I believe and this is a scary thing you know I feel like people have a brand like you guys people like me we've put a moat around ourselves because people know who we are people will choose to do business with us so a lot of people let's say I'm a lender as well well all the lending companies that don't have a brand in five years everybody in the audience even though there will be less business going on people will come to me because they know me I've built a moat around around myself but as far as holding real estate I've gone away from anything luxury I'm going away from anything Airbnb I used to have 75 Airbnb's I have a zero now I just got rid of my last Airbnb why is that for the audience because what happens when the economy shifts is people stop vacationing and when they do vacation they go to more economic choices like Motel 6 and other things like that or you know Hyatt Place or whatever good margins won't be there for Airbnb and more they're not there anymore and you already see Airbnb numbers are down 30% the last 18 months it's going to get worse and worse and worse so where should you what should you buy co-living smart single family houses we have a housing demand in fact tomorrow I think Trump is going to announce a housing emergency emergency in the country wow it's going to be a massive thing what's he going to do he's going to get rid of a lot of regulation that we have as investors what's a what's a piece of regulation that's specific in Arizona okay in California the last couple years what they've done is they made it so anybody that has a backyard can add an ADU in your backyard right essentially doubling how many houses or double density yeah yeah there you go guess what they did in Phoenix just recently in six months ago they made it any house that is within two miles of downtown of Phoenix can do the same thing that LA is doing which is add an ADU with no zoning change okay well there goes regulation so if you're one of those NIMBY's not in my backyard yep if you're a NIMBY and you're like I don't want that happening in my backyard well you better get the hell out of the big metros because things are going to change massively and quickly very quickly Trump comes in and says national emergency on housing it gets rid of regulation it also I think was what's going to happen is I think he's going to start selling some of the state-owned land that we all own as Americans and I think he's going to sell it off and say we're going to sell this at pennies on the dollar and we're going to go create new cities and new affordable housing plans and all sorts of crazy things so what am I investing in I'm investing in anything that somebody can rent a room or a house for under a thousand dollars because I think what's going to happen this is scary to even say yeah but I need to know yes I think that in five okay do you guys know the percentage of people in America that rely on government assistance right now no take a guess 15 percent it's 31 or 32 wow so every third of America third of America so every three people you meet in your life rely on government assistance if they didn't have it they couldn't survive rely on it okay and I think seven years I think it's going to be closer to 80 percent what are people going to do like literally think about what that people are like oh no more jobs are going to be created bridge that gap by the way for those listening saying how that's impossible bridge that gap okay so let's let's go on just one job that's going to be decimated um how many people drive uber and lift in the united states arms it's a little over three million people okay full-time it's a full-time income is three million people uber and lift wemo and tesla tesla taxi yep and there's three other companies that nobody ever talks about as well that they're all making a surge as well will does not take all those jobs yeah because they're autonomous there's no driver in it what's crazy is people are choosing to take a waymo over an uber right now even though way most twice as expensive why because i don't have to talk to anybody and honestly it's safer for women yes my personal opinion it's creepy i don't and i want to scroll through instagram and look at what i want to look at without you judging me i don't want a human being around so this is just in an uber when we went to the airport to come here and the guys like here take my business card and here is my instagram i'm like i don't want that experience yeah we're going to do that and guess what they're doing in starbucks right now in korea they've already replaced three stores in korea are fully autonomous starbucks they're proving it in korea tech is just a little bit better over there they'll start doing it here we have a sweet green right by us fully autonomous and i hate even saying this my salad is perfect every time yeah have you gone to starbucks okay and people at starbucks give me some attitude and some bullshit which is okay you you're entitled to have a bad day but i go through drive through and i go hey i want to talk to the nilabee and frappuccino great would you like whipped cream on that yeah sure that sounds great cool next day i come back through and i'm thinking i'm doing you a favor i'm going to go the nilabee and frappuccino with the whipped cream so you don't have to ask me so i say that the second day through and they go sir it comes with whipped cream it's part of the ingredients shit okay can i talk to a robot please yeah because i'm sorry from a former barista i feel ashamed but it's a hard job yes because you deal with you know 300 different personality types on a daily basis right it's really really hard so i think those are gone i think the one that's going to be the scariest one are people that are working any sort of trucking or transportation there's seven and a half million people that work in that logistics and trucking those are gone you got seven years okay max oh what about roofing companies guys look up rufus r u f us there's already robot replacing roofs last year or i'm sorry not last year last week first autonomous fully autonomous no doctor help no nurse help open heart surgery was performed last wednesday fully by a robot yep okay volunteered for that i don't know but there's people like people that are signed up for to go to mars already right so and white color so people think oh white color jobs are not at all account's gone AI is going to be a better account right um tax advisers travel agencies tax advisors agencies you recently fired an agency not because they did a bad job because you could save 10 grand a month for your company by using chat gpt i just started doing all my emails and it was better people have no idea what's coming and how fast this wave is yeah it's fast and i think the biggest problem will be the adoption of it so there's a lot of people like i live in montana half the year and that valley that i live in half that valley has never even heard of chat to bt i'm not exactly wow so there's going to be adoption issues in certain parts of the country but if you're in a big metro like top 50 metro like chicago la phoenix houston whatever you you will not recognize like the world in three to five years so what will happen well people are going to go they're going to be they're going to go to the trades we don't need more tradesmen that's a bullshit lie that's being told to you i'm hearing that a lot is that not true there's no shortage no no there's no shortage like have you ever heard somebody go no i'm as a roofer i'm sorry i can't do your job that's a good point no now what will happen is what they should be saying is it's the only thing that will like uh work for the next seven to ten years but what's happening is you look at the robots that are already being being done in casagrand right now you guys might not know this  you aren't here full-time, but Cassegrain did a full neighborhood 3B printed with concrete, with plumbing and electrical also printed into the house. And the plumbing, as it was printing the house. Yup, you're right, we need more electricians and more plumber, you guys know we don't. And when you already have, like, you guys know who Boston Dynamics is? Yeah, I do. Holy shit. Yup. Like their robot can do anything. All ready. So we go, oh, nurses are going to be safe. I like nurses. They're nice. We like nurses. Boston Dynamics just came out three months ago with a nurse that does the job of a nurse twice as well. Remember, every patient's name does all sorts of great things, has not missed a beat. It's already being deployed in Boston. I'm sorry. Y'all are going to be replaced. And for a robot that costs $60,000 versus a nurse that costs $80,000 to $90,000 a year plus benefits, plus management, plus training, plus this, that, and the other. And you want to work overtime. A robot is a one-time investment of $60,000. Where are y'all going to go? And so the way I look at it is, oh, my gosh. I scare your audience real fast. That could go for it. I'm so sorry. No. We're here for reality. OK, cool. So I had a friend. I had a friend named Marshall Brain. Marshall Brain is the guy who invented the TV show, How Stuff Works. OK, you guys have heard of this? Yep, totally. He shows, he sells this to Discovery Channel for $250 million a couple years back. And he's a professor. And he loves to teach. And he wrote these amazing books. Go to MarshallBrain.com. Insane. He wrote a book called The Second Intelligent Species, How Human Beings Will Be As Replaceable as a Cockroach in 15 Years. Dang. Great book. You'll Cry by Chapter 1. So he writes that book. He writes another book called Mana. A couple of really great books about the future and what's going to actually happen. Well, I go to Marshall back in, like, I think August of last I go, Marshall, I want you to come and talk to my community. I need you to scare the shit out of them because they need to take more action. They need to accumulate more rental units that the government's going to pay for. If you're in real estate and you're focusing on anything that the government cannot pay for, you're going to be in a world of hurt in five, seven years. So Marshall's like, yes, let's do it. No problem. He kept kicking the can down the road, kept kicking the can down the road. Well, I then lose contact with him for like two months. I don't know what the heck is going on. And then I get a letter on my house. And it was a suicide letter. He killed himself. Why? Because he's so hyper in tune with what's going on. And he knows what's happening. He's like, I don't know why I'm even here. Now, he also lost his purpose. That was a big part he talked about a lot. He lost his purpose once he sold that company. Human beings need a purpose. Yes. And so job loss is not just, there's people watching this that might go, well, it's going to be a euphoria where nobody worries about money. OK, but what about your purpose? Purpose. And being religious, that's a huge conversation is like what happens when people don't have purpose. Yeah, like think about what your dad put you through. And like the work ethic that you acquired and those bits of evidence that your brain absorbed, that you can do hard things. People think that once you're rich, that you stop working? No, every single person I know that's wildly wealthy, like what I call post-economic. Wants to keep working. They keep working because you need purpose. You need something to get up for every single day. And why accumulate all these skills, relationships, and resources if you're not going to utilize them and go and do something more? It's not even about money. It's about the journey of self-discovery. Oh, I'm capable of that? Dang, I did that? Wow, I wonder what else I'm capable of and that becomes this fun addiction. Or even helping people, like what you guys are doing with masterminds and educating people, you get a helper's high when somebody has a transformation. And they go, you changed my life. I want to stay in the subject so that we can get people prepared. Tell them what UBI is. UBI, oh my God. And tell them like you kept mentioning government housing. If you're going to buy real estate, make sure it's something that government housing would pay for, it ties into UBI. Tied this together for them. Okay, so fast forward in the future. What's the government going to do? Well, the government created the nine to five system a year, a long time ago. They created a nine to five system, not to manipulate us, but to handle us. Going, we don't know what to do with all these people. This country is growing so fast. What do we do with all these people? And the country created the nine to five, right? Henry Ford and all these other people go, let's create manufacturing lines. Let's give them a nine to five schedule with weekends off and this and the other. That was invented just in the last like 300 years it was never a thing before that. We were actually entrepreneurs have been with you. You had a farm, you were a shoe cobbler. It was like everybody owns something. Nobody really worked for anybody. You were a farmer, right? And it was like 75% of the whole world's population were farmers. Now it's less than 7% of these robots do all of that. Oh my gosh, you should see the things robots are doing in farms. Anyway, so now the government has to create a new system and that new system to adapt to what's going on is going to be like, let's ask this question before I tell you what UBI is. Do you think that we are going to decouple 31% of the American public from relying on government assistance? Is that going to be a thing? Like once they're on it, are you going to convince them to get off of it? No, no, you're on the tee. You're staying on the tee. Sorry for Boo reference. We love Boo reference. Yeah, so universal basic income is what UBI stands for. Texas has already started deploying it. Other states are starting to deploy it as well saying we don't know how to keep people in these houses. And so what the government is doing, it's like an allowance. Yep, they're giving you monthly stipend. Okay, the average in Texas right now is like 1,400 bucks a month and it's going to get to like $3,000 a month. Where does that money come from? Well, right now they're going to continue to print it. It's tax dollars. People like me that produce tax, like in Texas, I probably spend $500,000 a year in property taxes. That goes to the local government. The local government then pays out UBI to people, a percentage. And so it will be paid for for a couple of years out of state and local taxes, but it will be so significant at some point that the federal government will have to kick in and they'll have to turn the printing machine on at an even higher level. Now I am optimistic. I think in 15, 20 years, I think we reach a critical mass where nobody really has to work. And I think the government or whatever it may be, I think that robots and farming and all sorts of things will basically get to a point where it's nearly free. And we'll all get some sort of basic stipend. And less than 10% of the population will actually have to work or want to work like all of us. But 90% of people will basically live, I'm not exaggerating when I say 90%. In 20 years, guys, 90% of people will not have a job. And the growing pain will be this time in between. Yes, there's going to be a 10 year dystopia. 10 years of like, holy shit, we're in the worst recession of our lives. We don't know what we're going to do. People like me, how do I survive? Well, I'll give you one example. I have 160 unit multifamily deal in Tucson, Arizona. Not one person in that 161 units that I own has a job. They all live on pension, government pension, government assistance, Section 8, one of those three things, 100% of my tenants do not need a job to pay their rent. So I'm buying assets like that that I don't have to worry about it. So look, I'm a greedy son of a bitch. When you realize that you need money to help people and you need money to expand, you will also be somewhat, I shouldn't say greedy. I know how to use resources better than the government. You understand the importance of accumulation. Yes. And if I want to hire people, I need money. If I want to go do cool things, like a big tour and help people out, I got to have money. I can't just do that stuff for free. And I don't want to stay in my house playing video games all day long, which I think most people are going to be doing. I love to leave people better than we found them. So teach them if they're scared now, I have to hear in all this, what should they be doing tomorrow so that they have a job or an investment or a cash flow opportunity that allows them to end up on the good side of this dystopia that we're going to go through as opposed to the suffering side. Okay, cool. So I would tell you, the average income in America, average household income in America is like $60,000 between two people. Okay, well, I can replace that with one RV park, with one mobile home park, with one apartment building. Those sound scary and big and management. And oh my gosh, how do I do that? Go watch my YouTube channel, I teach it all for free. But I could also go, all right, the average co-living property is $2,000 a month net. So that's what, $24,000 a year. Most families, if you just had three rentals that were co-living, you literally never have to worry about working ever again. How do I go get those co-living? Couple of good websites to go to that are free and I don't get paid for and I don't own them. A great website, creativelisting.com. You can go on creativelisting.com, take over somebody else's mortgage at like 2% or 3%, fill the other rooms with tenants from Pad Split. You put them on Pad Split, Pad Split fills the tenants, they screen the tenants, Pad Split collects the money, pays you all the money that's left out over, they manage the house and you make $2,000 a month. That's the basics of it. I also have a playlist on my YouTube channel, it's like nine hours long, you can go watch that. It can literally, like a homeless lady, Maddie met me 90 days ago, already owns one. She chose to live in it, but her next one, she'll get probably in the next two or three weeks and then the next one, another probably three months after that and in less than six months, a homeless lady will have a portfolio that replaced the average income of a family in America. Pretty simple. And that kind of brings us full circle to put a bow on this thing. What you did with Maddie and what you're about to do on this 109 city tour is really a demonstration to everybody right now listening that might be freaked out about what's coming. That everyone listening can do this. There's nobody that doesn't have enough time, even though I know you're working two, three jobs. There's nobody that doesn't have enough money because you can do it with no money down. And you've proven this, not just to the people that can afford a $10,000 course, you've proven this now to the Maddies of the world. And you're about to show another hundred and some examples that anybody can do this. So this doesn't have to be doom and gloom. If you're willing to roll up your sleeves, watch the free YouTubes for crying out loud, put some elbow grease in and do the damn work. Yeah, it's interesting. Last couple of things I'll say. I listened to a podcast you did recently. I was out on a run, this was probably a week ago. And it was talking about how your brother has ran 3,000 days in a row. That's the most insane shit I've ever heard. Pure discipline. People don't understand what it takes to run 10 days in a row. Let alone two, bro. I'm painful from day one, I'm going into day two running with pain. I don't even get my body any time to, he's on day 3,000. And he's like, well, we're on vacation. And I guess I just gotta wake up at 4.45. Everybody else on the planet is like, well, I'm on vacation. Right, it does require effort and it requires a mindset that you're gonna go get it done. So that's number one, you are right. You might have a time issue, but you still have to make that work, right? Just like what your podcast said, it was such a great podcast. Number two, here's why I think fear is one of the greatest things on the planet. Okay, Harvard Study talked about how they were trying to figure out the best rat poison flavor on the planet. Interesting. They're like, how do we make this rat poison the most flavorful thing? Delicious to rats. To make the rat run through the maze as fast as possible. So they tried like 2,500 different recipes. And they ultimately found that the thing that made the rat go through the maze the fastest was like a thing between syrup, honey, and some rotten like cabbage. Okay, just to give you the punchline. Cause we were like, wait, what is it? Yeah, like is it bacon? And now it's sold in stores, right? This is how they come up with these things, right? Tomcat, I think was the name of the company. You go to like Home Depot, you go to Tomcat, like on the aisle, you'll see that came from a Harvard study is to figure out what do they put as a scent in these, these paints. Okay, well, they had the whole setup, right? And they'd been spending all this time together. And one of these scientists had this idea. He goes, let's try something crazy. I got a crazy idea. I want to see if I can make these mice run even faster. These rats run faster. And what his idea was, let's take the scent of a cat and let's pump it into the maze. And let's see what happens to your fear. They pumped the scent of the cat in the middle of the maze and it just, you know, went through the whole maze and it hits the rat. And what did the rat do? The rat froze in place. Why? Because the fear was in front of them. The cats that way, I'm staying here. And then the scientists go, oh, this is simple. Let's put the scent of the cat behind the rat. And let's see what happens. So the rat standing in the maze in the starting position, the scent of the cat comes up behind the rat and he goes, holy shit, there's a cat back there. And then all of a sudden, literally it was a three, they tried 2,500 scents, flavors, everything else. The fear of the cat made that rat run three times as fast as any combination of food ever did. So why do I say this? I say this because guys, if you use fear, it can propel you full. That's what I choose to do. I go, I have no choice. And why have a lot of us had transformations in our lives? Because there was probably a moment in your life, you're like, I have no choice. Yeah, right? Multiple. Okay, so that is, you got to look at yourself. If you're taking notes, I would write down, I have no choice. I have to go and do something to put a moat around me and my family. And what's happening in the future is the greatest gift on the planet. I had this theory the other day, I said, I think God invented AI and robotics because he's sick and tired of people saying, please God, please make my life better. And then those people not taking any action, right? Heaven helps those people that help themselves. I think God is like, you know what? I think I'm gonna put the fear behind you and I'm gonna make you so afraid of the future that you actually finally go and do the thing you pray to me about every single night. And so I hope that you guys go figure that out because you really don't have any other choice. That's great. That's great. I mean, that's for sure. When people listen to you and I, that's 100% why we've done anything is because we've lost to avoid pain. To avoid pain. And it's such, it's so real to both of us that we're like, oh no, that could happen again. It gets so real. That is a good point. It motivates us. Going back to what you said a little bit earlier, like people want to keep working because they don't want, they don't want to have purpose. I think that's probably 90% of it, but there's that 10% of you that says, I could lose this all over again if I stop. And that fear of, oh my gosh, like I was at dinner with Dean Graziosi a couple months ago and I go, bro, like you're 55. You've hit the top of the world. You're CEO of multiple Tony Robbins companies. You're building a $30 million home in Paradise Valley. You've made it. And he goes, no, I've lost it all before. I know exactly what it feels like and I could lose it next week. I will not stop. I will continue to build momentum because the worst thing when you've lost it all is you've lost it all and you have no momentum on top of that. Like this is part of that same thing to me. Liquid nine figures, afraid it could go away tomorrow. Yeah. If my pipeline is not always getting full somehow, I'm anxious and I don't think that's a bad thing. I also think we're always choosing between, you know, one form of pain or another. We were just listening to a podcast. He was talking about like the rule of thirds, like a third of the time in your life, you're gonna feel great. Third of the time you're gonna feel mint and a third of the time you're gonna feel terrible. And I'm like, if we all feel that way, you might as well feel that way, building something. Yep. Then avoiding something. Then avoiding something, you know? Take us home. Final parting words for people that just listen to part one, part two, they got excited, they got inspired, they got scared. What's your message for them? Get around people that are doing things with their life that you want to do. So I would join their mastermind. If you guys been listening to them for a long time, why are you not part of their mastermind? By far, and look, they're not telling me to promote them. I'm promoting masterminds because I spent 400 grand last year on getting into the right rooms. You would think, right? Like I was on the phone with Gary Vee this morning. I was on the phone with Tony Robbins a week ago. I was on the phone with Lewis Howes a couple of weeks prior to that. I have some pretty cool friends that are doing cool things. I still buy myself into the right rooms. One, I can meet some of those people in those rooms, but two, I want to be around people that are changing their lives and doing what they say they're gonna do. Masterminds are the number one way for that. So I would tell you guys, if you guys been paying attention to them listening to their podcasts and following their content, get in the mastermind with these guys. How did they get there again? Chrishutter.me.forwards-mastermind. By far, not even remotely close to any second place. By far, that's the number one thing that will change your life. Man, I appreciate that. Of course, yeah. We're so grateful for you. Thank you for coming on. For being an awesome storyteller. You should thank that person who's mastermind you were in or whoever you worked with. Myron Gold and his mastermind's $55,000 worth every single day. Absolutely. It's so good. And I will say, we learn the most through story because we can get in the story, we can feel it. If we haven't had that personally happen, we can get in the shoes because of how you told the story. So thank you so much for that, for being here with us today, for doing a two-part show with us. Of course. We've been so excited to be able to sit down with you. So it means the world that you've come to spend this time with us. And you guys make sure that you go to the show notes and go and check out the tour, but pay one more time for your tour. CreativeNationTour.com. Nothing to sell unless you want to buy a taco at the end of the meetup. I mean, and that's why we're all going. That's our turn that. Thanks for being who you are. Thank you. Thank you. I'm leading by example. Thanks for being a great human being. And it really, really inspires us. Thank you. Thank you so much. And you guys definitely go check out those show notes. Go click on the links below for PACE. And we will see you next week. Bye everyone. Thanks guys.

=== FILE: How to Nail Your 2026 Health Goals (Fasting, Hormones, & Cycle Timing) with Dr. Mindy Pelz (Part 1) [Izaz56u9_yk].txt ===

 growing up, it was like, that's all I heard my mom talk about, like, oh, once you hit your 40s or your 50s, it's kind of like, nothing's left for you, you don't feel good, like, you don't feel good in your body, like, there's just so many things that are happening. And I've been having this conversation with a lot of my girlfriends that were like, maybe our moms, like, weren't crazy. Yeah, right? Oh my god, that's the harsh reality. Maybe they weren't getting the support that they needed, and they didn't know how to support themselves to eat and do the things that we're going to chat about. Mindy, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Yeah, thank you. Thank you for having me back. I really loved our first conversation, so. I loved it. No, I literally was just like, when can we get Mindy back? Oh, she has a book? Yes! It was like the perfect time to ever met. Yeah, it's the only time I come out of hiding. Yeah, you have such a beautiful way of giving science, giving information, but also, I think, because you are probably also your own student, yep, like, practically in the world, that I really love talking to you because you also just, you combine the actual human. And that is why I love having you on this podcast, is because, yes, I love talking about business, I'm obsessed with talking about building something big, and going after your dreams. But none of that, none of that even works at all, especially for women. I'm like 95% women on this podcast. We know none of that works if you don't take care of yourself and you don't figure out how to feel good, how to eat well. And I don't know about you, but this for me, I'm an 80s baby, 1980. I was not taught how to eat. Nope. I learned the opposite of how to eat well, to feel my brain and my dreams and all the energy and relationships and all the things. So I love that you are now bringing this conversation into a whole different realm. Yep. So first was Fast Like a Girl with your first book, which sold 1.3 million copies. I'm like, can you even wrap your brain away? No, I can't. In fact, it still freaks me out when I go out in public and people recognize me. Like, I still, my brain's like, how do you know me? And then I start to think, oh yeah, 1.3 million people read this book. Like, like how many stadiums is that? That's what my husband always says. He's like, think about how many stadiums that filled, but that's still hard to quite wrap your head with. It's like all the NFL team stadiums, I think filled all it was all together reading your book, like opening your book and reading. Wow. Thank you for that. Really, really insane. Okay. So I just want to quick recap for everyone. And first of all, I'm going to put the first podcast back down in the show notes. So you guys, I think you need to also go back and listen to this. But let's do a little recap of Fast Like a Girl, where you were, why that conversation felt really hot for you in that moment. And then I want to fast forward. Yeah. Ooh, I love that question. Nobody's asked me that. So thank you. So what happened with Fast Like a Girl is that I was doing integrative health in my clinic. We were doing functional health before functional health was even a word. And so we were detoxing, we were hormone balancing. I was doing a ton of lifestyle. I was taking my patients to Costco and showing them how to read labels and how to buy organic. And so I was kind of this hands on clinic. And when I discovered the research on fasting, I was like, wait a second, I can teach people how to detox without taking a supplement. I can get people into this fasted state and their body will go find stored glucose in belly fat and booty fat, like that glucose they stored years ago. Say less. Right. And we can talk about that. And it just excited me. So what I ended up doing was going to my YouTube channel and starting to explain the science. And in my office, I was playing with a whole bunch of different principles around fasting. Now at that time, you have to remember that Jason Fung had come out with the obesity code. Dave Asprey had come out with fast that way. Will Cole had come out with intuitive fasting. So there was a lot of fasting manuals. But because my audience was women, I started to see that there was a specific way that women should fast, that there was a trend that that was happening where women who weren't following a pattern, according to their menstrual cycle, were losing hair. They were gaining weight. They were having the opposite experience. And the women in my clinic were not having that same experience. So fast like a girl was like a gift to women. Like here's how you fast if you have a menstrual cycle. And I think that might be why it did so well, because it allowed women to step into a trend that was working so well for men. And now they could have it work well for them. So last time we had spoken, I definitely come from a bit of a fasting background, not for a long period of time, but I'd say like, probably like six, seven years, I had like really fasted. But every day I didn't do it in the way, you know, that you had that you talk about and you teach. And now I feel like I do it more, way more intuitively, like especially after our conversation and how I feel especially around that time. But I want to talk about why that is important fasting. And you know, I was raised in a very restrictive religion, which also like kind of makes you learn that the Bible had a lot of fast. Oh, yeah, built into it, quote unquote, for religious purposes. But looking back, I mean, that's from God and kind of like how we're supposed to be built and how we're supposed to be. And then anyone who's watching any, you know, Netflix documentaries on blue zones and all of these places where there's calorie restriction, there's natural fasting and they're living to be over 100 in a lot of these areas. So can you tell me a little bit just about like, what why, why are you so intrigued about fasting? And I would love to know for women, if you could just tell us kind of if we're if we're going to dabble in it, what does that look like? Yeah, okay, great question. So the first reason why is I'm so fascinated by all the ways the body heals itself. And I think we have really outsourced our health, we've outsourced it to medication, we've outsourced it to piles of supplements, we've outsourced it to doctors and health gurus, like we are chronically like somebody else is going to heal me. And what I loved about fasting is I could take a woman in my clinic who was an overeater. And if I put her on an exercise regime, or I put her on a diet, or I put her on a supplement and she got a result, she would come back to me and she would say, Oh my God, that supplement was amazing, that diet was amazing, the workout was amazing. But she never said, I'm amazing. Like this is really key. She never gave herself the credit. The credit always either went to me for delivering the information or to the spectacular technique that we did. Fasting didn't do that. With fasting, when I taught a woman how to go a certain amount of time without food, and we watched her drop weight, like I would literally see these women come in my clinic door, they would open the front door, and I would be sitting behind my desk, maybe talking to my front desk out, and I'd look at them, and it was like a coat of fat had just come off them in a matter of weeks. And they would have these big smiles on their face. And I would say, Oh my God, look at you. And then their response would be, I didn't eat for 15 hours. I did what you told me where I tried a 24 hour fast, or we started guiding people through three day water fast. And they gave themselves the credit because they're the ones that had to not eat. And in the not eating, they got to experience how miraculous their body was. So that excited me because we as women, we give our power away all the time, especially when it comes to our bodies. So I started seeing these really like fired up women that were like, if I can do that, what else can I do? So it was like the door into self confidence. So by giving themselves these these windows, sometimes it's 15 hours, sometimes it's 24, 48, whatever, 72. Their body was essentially just doing what it was built. Built to do. Yeah, going back to what you were saying about the Bible, that you know, every single religion has fasting in it. And when you go in the blue zones, we've been like taking the Okinawa women and putting them up on a pedestal. And we say, Oh, they eat less calories. But we never asked in what time period they eat less calories, because they leave a longer period for fasting. So fasting is is been a tool that has been a part of our culture for years. And in fast like a girl, I went back and talked about even the hunter gatherers had the fast. Yep. So I laughed to myself when people say fasting doesn't work, or fasting is dangerous. And because it's part of the human experience, if you haven't experienced it, try it, research it, understand it for you before you knock it. Okay, so what is let's talk about women now, what's the difference between men fasting and women fasting? I know we have different cycles. What does that look like? Yeah. So the thing to know is that women operate when they're when we're menstruating, we operate off a 30 day cycle around that 20 to 32. And men operate around a 24 hour cycle. So in a man, testosterone is coming in every 15, 20 minutes. And so they're getting pulses of hormones. So lucky. I know. I know, right? Just testosterone just like energy, drive, energy, drive. Yeah, I like, I don't know if you've dabbled in testosterone. I haven't yet, but I'm I'm curious about it. It fascinates me because I've been dabbling in like, okay, where does testosterone hormone replacement therapy work for me at 56. And the first couple of times I took it, I turned to my husband, I'm like, Oh, this is how you feel all day long. Wow. This is cool. I can do stuff. Yeah, anything. Exactly. And then the rage hit. I had, and I was like, Oh, now I understand you even more. So interesting. Yeah. So if you want to understand men, totally try some. So but what's interesting is that's their main sex hormone. Like that's the hormone that they have to when it comes to lifestyle, all they have to do is line themselves up with making more testosterone and testosterone will go up into a male's brain and it'll turn into estrogen. They don't have the hormone progesterone, which is the outlier for women. So let's go over to women. We have a 30 day cycle. The first 15 days, our body's making estrogen. Estrogen loves when we're glucose sensitive and insulin sensitive. So estrogen will loves it when you work out hard. Estrogen loves when you go on your keto diet. Estrogen loves when you fast, like estrogen can really flourish in that environment. Estrogen is also very stress tolerant. So if you're stressing out, estrogen is like whatever, I'm fine. She can really do her things in those first 15 days. And what are the drivers? What is she making us feel? So everything. Okay, great. Because this ties into age like a girl. And this was sort of where my research went. So we have estrogen receptor sites throughout our whole body. So I don't know if you've heard that a lot in this ties into your fitness background. A lot of women when they go through menopause experience, frozen shoulder, because we actually have estrogen receptor sites in our joints. Interesting. So what happens is when you go into ovulation between day 10 and day 15, estrogen has to peak. And then that's what releases an egg. And then, but she's not done there. Once she peaks, she goes into all your joints, she goes up into your brain, she goes into your cardiovascular system. I even found some research for age like a girl that we have receptor sites in our bones for estrogen. She'll go into our bones. She stimulates over 12 neurochemicals. So she stimulates dopamine and serotonin and acetylcholine. The good stuff. Huge, right? So she was wickedly powerful and she likes when you keep glucose down. A good example of this is the number one hormonal problem for women right now is PCOS. And that is an insulin resistance issue. When you go insulin resistant, you throw estrogen off because your glucose is high, your insulin is high and estrogen is like peace out. I don't know what to do with that. So infertility is another one. With fast like a girl, we probably, I wish I could count how many babies we made because once women figured out, oh, when estrogen is around, I need to fast and do keto and keep more glucose down and insulin sensitive. So it's a really, once you start to understand the patterns of this, it's quite profound. Then when you get to that week before your period, that's where everything changes. And we innately know this, right? Like what happens to us the week before our periods? I mean, I feel, I feel great. I personally feel crazy. Yeah. I feel more emotional. Yep. Yeah. So here's why. The week before your period is when progesterone comes in and progesterone hates cortisol. The enemy of progesterone is cortisol. So if you're working out hard, if you're fasting a ton, if you are working, you know, in your business really hard and cortisol is really high, you're going to see worse PMS symptoms because you can't have, you can't make progesterone. The phrase I always say to help people remember this is that when cortisol goes high, progesterone becomes shy. And if you don't make enough progesterone, then that inner lining of your uterus won't shed. So we see this with athletes, extreme athletes, they women lose their cycles. It's because they're just pushing their bodies so hard that progesterone is like, I'm gone. Yeah. When I was competing, I think I lost it for like three years. Right. It was bad. Right. Maybe one a year. Perfect. Yeah. That's a perfect example. But so this is why we don't fast the week before a women's cycle because really, if we go back to primal, our primal ways, we were meant to rest that week before our period. Everybody thinks when you actually start your period, you're supposed to rest. No, you're supposed to rest the week before. And then you won't have PMS the period when your period comes, it's much more smoother because you let progesterone do her thing. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more, when you're starting a business, you need Northwest registered agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer-drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale, and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it, like operating agreements, meeting minutes, and thousands of how-to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you, this is life-changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand, and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you've become the leader, that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify, 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built in too. You can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. The last thing I'll say on this that frees a lot of women is the other thing that we do the week before our cycle is we crave carbs. So that's not because we're undisciplined. That's because progesterone needs more glucose in the system. You can't eat enough sometimes. You're just like, what is it? I can't eat enough. Yeah. Because if progesterone could talk to you, she would be like, hey, stop the dieting, stop the working out, stop the fasting, chill out and give me some good, nutritious carbs. So that I have the ingredients to be able to make my appearance. But what do we do as women? We're like, oh, I just can't stick to my diet. Yeah, you feel bad. You feel bad. Then you start to shame yourself. You turn on yourself. You think it's you. So funny how after years and years, every month, I'm still like, what's wrong with me? Right. And then I'm like, oh, right. And I don't know if you've found this, but when we've been really regimented with our diet, it gets really hard to let go and eat more carbs. Yeah. Because we're like, I don't know. I wasn't supposed to. I've been staying away from that and I've been losing weight. And now I'm supposed to eat this thing. But the week before your period, yes, you're supposed to have more carbs, not the ultra process carbs. I call them nature's carbs, these fruits, vegetables, potatoes, those kinds of carbs, not our standard American diet. Yeah. So when you're talking to someone, when somebody's listening to this, what's a great way to kind of start, if you were just going to do the basics, you're like, okay, I want to kind of start wrapping my brain around it. First of all, tracking your cycle would be good. I should probably start doing that someday. I didn't start tracking my cycle till I was like in my mid 40s. This is great. Good. Good. I've got, well, I'm 44. So I'll start this year next year. We always joke about this because my brand coordinator and I, because I'm always like a little surprised. I'm like, why do I feel this way? Oh, that's right. Okay, got it. That's right. Which is that, that alone in itself, you guys, if you don't track, like I literally am going to start tracking just because you can actually feel so much more empowered around anything you're doing. Like why don't I feel motivated? Oh, this is very normal. Like give yourself a break, have a little grace. If I've learned anything in life, it is like giving yourself grace is the only key to getting through anymore. Like mean coaching to like stops working at some point. So tracking cycle, what are some like basics? Yeah. So, okay, so let's start here. Yeah, you have two energy systems, one that you ignite when you eat and one when you ignite when you fast. Okay. So I always say when you start to fast, we got to clean your food up first. We want to make sure that what you're eating is good quality food. And I'm sure you've talked about it here, but it's not that hard. You don't even have to count anything. Just eat real food. Yeah. Like literally when you look at something go did that come from the earth or did that come from a lab or a warehouse? Did it sit in a warehouse for weeks and weeks and weeks? Because fresh food doesn't sit in warehouses for weeks. So we want people to clean the clean up there and eat the good oils, not the bad oils get off the refined flowers and sugars. So that's that's the first goal. Okay, second, you're going to want to work with this what I call a metabolic switch. You're going to want to learn how to create a fasting window every single day. And for most women when they first learn this, they've only been staying away from food for about eight hours. It's not long enough. Isn't that crazy when you think about it? Yeah. So we eat late at night and then we wake up and they're like, Oh, first meal of the day is supposed to be the best meal of the day breaking that cycle. Okay, that's right. So, so let's start to move your breakfast back. Okay. The first question I get there is coffee. Of course. Yes, you can have coffee. Great. And what about creamer? Right. Careful what you put in it. So anything that's a fat is going to stabilize your blood sugar. So we don't want sugar. We don't want honey. We don't want even oat milk or almond milk, because those have a little bit of glucose in them and they're going to spike your blood sugar. Okay, that's not good. But heavy whipping cream, grass fed whipping cream. Amazing. Amazing. I put raw milk in my coffee every morning. A little bit of MCT oil can be really helpful for keeping the blood sugar stable. So some people are putting creatine in their coffee now. Some people are putting collagen in their coffee. So there are a lot, there's a lot you can do with that coffee that will like that's great news. That's right. I feel like once you get off the sugary creamers, trust me, I know it's hard that used to be like my little treat morning, but it is it's almost like once you're off of it for about a month or two and just on the with the fats like a good fat cream. I don't know some people put butter in their coffee. What do you think of that? Yeah, it's all like fatten up that coffee. Yeah. Now the butter is fine. That's why I say whole whipping cream is the best. Don't go and here's something for people to understand the non fat milk actually spikes your blood sugar greater. It has more sugar than of milk with fat. Exactly. Because they've taken all the fat out of it and they've highly processed it. So now now it's just a little bit of a sugar bomb. Yeah. And you can do that. If you like butter, put butter. MCT oil is spectacular. And it MCT oil is a fraction of coconut oil. And so when you put it in your coffee and I always tell people to start slow, do like a third of a teaspoon because it'll get your bowels moving. Also great news. Right. Which is also yeah. It could be just don't just try it on your camera before you leave the house. That's my recommendation. But what MCT oil does is it helps you flip over into this fasted fat burning energy system much quicker and it kills hunger. So this is why you saw everybody doing the bullet proof bullet proof coffee. Yeah. And you know now it's morphed into a lot of different names. But that actually helps you because it's almost like a meal. Your coffee becomes like a meal, which for fasters is incredible. Okay. So we're creating a longer window. What is the ideal window for women? I think the first place I want women to get to is somewhere between 13 and 15 hours. And let me explain why. One of my favorite studies on fasting for women was done on 13 hours and it was done on women who had gone through breast cancer treatment, traditional treatment. And what they found is if they came out of traditional treatment and they just fasted 13 hours every single day, they had a 64% less reoccurrence of that cancer. So we, I mean, even if you don't have to have cancer to want to benefit from that, something was happening there in the body. So 13 is good. Most people, once they get to 13, they can get to 15, which is where you'll start making growth hormone. Now growth hormone is the precursor to every other hormone in your body. And so when you hit that 15 hour mark, your body starts to upregulate growth hormone, which we lose at 30. Growth hormone slows down aging. It helps you burn fat. It's like the Fountain of Youth. It's the Fountain of Youth. Okay. Helps you burn fat, slows aging. What else? And it helps you make the other hormones like testosterone, progesterone and estrogen. So people pay a lot for that. Oh my God. So much for growth hormone. But even I'll tell you a really fun thing we're doing right now is we're playing with peptides that have growth hormone in it. This is just in my community and with some of the people that I've been coaching and seeing if we can get more growth hormone into their system. Will they actually make more during perimenopause? Will they make more estrogen and progesterone? And the answer right now is yes. I mean, I'm a great volunteer. I really am. 44, I'm great for you. Yeah. Okay. I love this. So you're, so, you know, you started talking about fasting, which I know, of course, affects hormones. Then you're, you know, that affects perimenopause. It affects menopause. And you're really starting to change the conversation because you have discovered so many different things about what is happening in like the menopause phase for women. And, you know, I think about there's so much amazing research around it now that's making us feel more sane about this change and also good about it. And I think, Mindy, that's why I'm so excited about your next book, because I think you're getting women excited about something that felt like kind of like a death sentence. Like your life is done. Like I know growing up, it was like, that's all I heard my mom talk about. Like, oh, once you hit your 40s or your 50s, like, it's kind of like nothing's left for you. You don't feel good. Like you don't feel good in your body. Like there's just so many things that are happening. And I've been having this conversation with a lot of my girlfriends that were like, maybe your mom's like, weren't crazy. Yeah, right. Oh, my God, that's the harsh reality. Maybe they weren't getting the support that they needed. And they didn't know how to support themselves. Yeah, eat and do the things that we're going to chat about. So I'd love for you to tell me about like the idea behind this new book and just like the rewiring of the brain and all the things. Yeah. So this book actually started 10 years ago, even like as I was tinkering with fasting and for women in my clinic, I started to see a trend in women that were hitting their 40s. And the trend looked like this. They would come into my clinic and they'd be like, listen, here's the thing. I'm gaining weight. I'm totally fatigued. I can't remember anything. I can't focus. I'm depressed. I'm anxious. And yet if you look at my life, my life on paper is amazing. My husband is incredible. My house is amazing. My kids are incredible. And all I'm experiencing is depression and anxiety and suicidal thoughts. A lot of them were having or a handful of them were having suicidal thoughts. So I started to see the pattern and I was like, what is going on here? And so I dove into the research and I found two really interesting stats. One was that the most common time for a woman to kill herself is from in during the decade between 45 and 55. Oh, wow. I was like, what? Like these are not teenagers that don't have a well formed life. Yeah. These are like moms. These are these are grandmas. These are community leaders. Why are they killing themselves? Yeah. And then the second stat that I saw was that 70% of divorces over 40 are initiated by women. So I looked at those two. I looked at my patients and I started started to answer what's happening in menopause. What is the purpose of menopause? And I found a statistic that said if a woman is lucky enough, she will spend 42.5% of her life in her post reproductive years. Now, if you look at that, that stat might not seem that amazing until you realize that every other mammal on the planet, the minute of the female loses her reproductive cycle, she dies. Oh, yeah. Interesting. So it's only us and a couple of whales that live like seriously that live that long. So I was like, what is going on here that is there's something that the body and the brain is doing that's changing us. But but we're not left to live and suffer. There's a reason we're left for 42% of our life. Yeah. And so I found two things from there. I found one was an article that said a peer review journal that said estrogen didn't act alone. She had what I call the estrogen girl gang. She had these 12 neurochemicals that she stimulated. So when she goes away, dopamine goes away, serotonin goes away, acetylcholine, GABA,  glutamate, BDNF, oxytocin, melatonin, you become insulin resistant. She was that powerful that this whole neurochemical shift happened. I was like, well, there you go. That's why women are killing themselves. They're not just losing a hormone. They're losing a whole neurochemical system, which was the first piece of the puzzle for me. Then the second piece of the puzzle is I stumbled upon something called the grandmother hypothesis. The grandmother hypothesis says that back in the hunter and gatherer days, when a woman stopped having a reproductive system, the tribe actually moved her into a place of leadership. She was needed by the tribe in a new way. Here's what this tribal life looked like. The men and very strong, I've been doing a ton of research on this and I think also the very strong teenage girls went out to go make an animal kill. They would be gone for days. Back in those tribal days, they only came back with a big animal kill about 3% of the time. That's one out of 30 days that they came back with food. Those stats are not real good. They're not really good. Back home at the tribe, you had the pregnant women, you had the nursing women, and you had the little kids. Who was going to feed them? It was the grandmothers, the post-reproductive women that no longer had a cycle. The concept of the grandmother hypothesis was that she had energy given back to her. She now had energy for fitness. She had energy for mental clarity and she had energy that was built for social leadership. Every single day, the grandmothers would gather around the tribe and they would go forage for food. They would go bring food back every single day and feed not only themselves but the children and the fertile women. That is how we were designed was to move to this place of leadership. Now fast forward to today, we're not foraging for food. We can just stay on our phone and have door dash. We don't need a pack of grandmothers come in and give us food. What I started to connect all these dots and say, why does our culture toss women aside? If we look through a primal lens, we are meant for leadership. That question started haunting me and then I talked to Lisa Mosconi. Have you had her on your podcast? She's the top female brain researcher. What she showed is that when we lose estrogen and we lose all these neurochemicals, the brain actually rewires itself. What it does is it prunes away the neurons you no longer need. I looked into what those neurons were. They're the people pleasing neurons. They're the neurons that kept us addicted to everybody else's opinion of us and that kept us addicted to being looking good and acting a certain way so we can be loved by the culture. New neurons grow in the brain that actually help us start to stand up for ourselves, tell our truth and become amazing leaders that our brain rewires itself for leadership. The first person we lead is ourselves out of an outdated societal conditioning that had been placed upon us. Wow. This is mind blowing.

=== FILE: Inside Shark Tank Prep, Making Your Customers OBSESSED & Mom of 5 CEO Routine with Lindsay Mullenger [Gc21pN7nSzI].txt ===

 you were on Shark Tank. That is a crazy experience. You're a founder who's creating this thing that you love, and now you're supposed to go and pitch and know your numbers inside out, upside down, and backwards and stand there so confident. At the beginning of the process, I was nervous, but when it was go time, it's almost like that mindset of I have been given the most wild opportunity to go share, this company that I'm obsessed with. You kind of have to put your binders on. And go. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Actually. Lindsay, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for having me. I'm really excited to dive into your business. Number one, you have such an awesome story. Number two, you have such an incredible product for people who love giving unique gifts, getting unique gifts, and people who are really just sentimental, who want to have a beautiful space for keeping their memories. I just love that this is a new spin on such a beautiful old tradition that we'll talk about you guys in just a minute. But Lindsay, I'm really excited to dive in because you have had a pretty wild entrepreneurial journey. I can't wait to hear where it all started. So Lindsay, I want to go back to the beginning of before you started Petit Keep, which we'll tell you all about in just a minute. But what were you doing like the two-year period prior to Petit Keep? That's a great question. So two years prior, I was working in corporate America, was working in marketing, business development. I was at P&D in Berkshire Hathaway out of college. So I was really deep in corporate life and this dive. You were in corporate America. Did you have kids at this time? What was this all looking like? Yes. So I had two years before I launched Petit Keep. I had one child, one on the way, really got the idea basically two years before PK started because as we all know, it takes time to launch the company, like really get into that zero to one mode. So yeah, I was knee deep in all things like building a new family, figuring out how to do that with a career and kind of juggling it all. Okay. So you started Petit Keep. Let's talk about what that is because I want people to understand what we're talking about and then we're going to dig into how this all started. Okay. Great question. So Petit Keep is a keepsake company. We make keepsake chunks that people personalize for the highest high moments of their life. So weddings, babies, graduation, you name that big life milestone and we've probably embroidered a trunk for it. We sell on our website, which is 100% e-commerce, but are starting to roll out some in-person events and kind of meet our customers where they are. Okay. I love this because when I got to see your product, I was like, this is so genius because it's a modern spin on like a keepsake trunk, like a cedar trunk. My mom had a cedar trunk growing up that she kept in the basement and it had like all of our baby blankets. It had some photos in there, like all of these different keepsakes and it was, I remember it being so special because we wouldn't open it all the time, but she'd want to make it like a thing when we would go and open it and she would tell us like, what we were like when we were babies and what we were like when we were wearing this particular outfit and why she wanted to keep it. I think that a lot of that is missing in today's family and I think that it can be something so incredibly special that we not only get to have it now with what you have a modern spin and they're beautiful. You guys, they're like these stunning smaller trunks or how would you describe it because I'm not putting the right words to this. No, you said it perfectly. They are truly personalized trunks. Everyone comes under a website and they choose the trunk color, the fabric color, their embroidery, whether it's a saying, a monogram, a name, the font, every single piece of it is personalized to the story that's being created for, which is the really special part. I literally stand in our warehouse like every day and I'm like just in my mind, I'm like, where's this trunk going to? What's the story for that? What's the story for that? It's really special. Wait, that is so special. I feel like I want to step in there all the time to see like, I can't believe that you get to create these moments because that's what they're going to be when they go. Whoever gifts it, it's going to be an incredible moment for them. Whoever gets it is going to be such a special moment for that person. Really being able to take the time to personalize something and give it to someone that you really love. I think it's really, really special and I know that's why you've already been successful and you will always be successful. You guys definitely have to go and immediately if you're not already looking at the website while you're on this podcast, go pop over there because you'll get the feel of everything that we're about to talk about. Where were you? Have you always been sentimental? Was this something that you had in your family? Kind of tell me the origination of the story. Absolutely. I've always, family's always been core to me. The family I grew up in, when my husband and I, we met when we were 19, we always knew we wanted a big family. Family has always been a constant theme in my life and really experiences have been the other thing. I crave experiences. I think Petit Keep is built off of the memories that you have and the experiences you have and there are pieces that go in a trunk because you want to recall those experiences and memories. As far as starting Petit Keep, I'd say those were two constant things that are just who I am as a person, but definitely an entrepreneurial itch. I think when I saw, long short, short, I had my first daughter who was looking for, I was organizing the nursery for my second daughter and could not find anything that felt like a place to drop a couple of keepsakes. I was looking for a function that felt worthy of passing down for generations and I could not find that. Talk to some friends across the country, no one had a good solution and that's really when Petit Keep was born. Wow. Okay. Just out of your own need, there's nothing, you were not buying cedar trunks anymore. Ain't nobody doing that. You have five children, so we're certainly not keeping five cedar trunks around you. You created it. Tell me a little bit about when you said the entrepreneur itch. What did that look like? I want to tell you who listens to this podcast. This is a lot of people who maybe already have an idea, are already entrepreneurs, but we have quite a few people who are either looking for their next thing or listening to this for motivation on potentially leaving their career or getting a side hustle. I really want you to expand on what that journey actually looked like from corporate America to, oh, I have this little idea. It definitely became something I didn't expect in so many ways. I loved my job in corporate America. I feel like I was stretched. I was pushed. I got to work on brands I loved. There was always something missing about the depth of impact I was making a difference on and I think that's where the entrepreneur itch came from. When I launched PK, what I will say is that zero to one phase, and I always share this with people who are starting off, that to me was the most challenging. Everyone has different skillsets, but I didn't realize and appreciate in corporate America how I was generally being handed a concept, a product, what not, to then figure out how to go grow. That's really what took a lot of the ramp up from ideation to launch in 2020 for PT. There's something exciting about betting on yourself. I am a risk averse person, but the idea of being able to find that intersection of personal interest and passion alongside fulfilling my dreams from a career perspective was really what that journey felt like. Are you, would you say that you're more of a, it's funny how everybody's hard part is at different portions of the journey and yours is the beginning. For me, the beginning feels quite easy and then the middle after that feels very challenging. I'm a fast start. I want to start 500 businesses. I have a million ideas. I feel like the ideation portion is my favorite part. For you, would you say that you are more of a, are you more integration, operations, what type of CEO are you or are you more of the creative visionary? What do you lean heavier towards? It's locked a little different in each stage of the business and where the businesses need. I launched in 2020. I did it the first two years. It was just me, myself and I and my husband also at nights and weekends was helping. I think then when we started growing a team, I think you naturally gravitate towards things that bring you energy and brand and costumer definitely bring me energy. I'm obsessed with our customer and I'm obsessed with brand. For example, this year, we opened up the brand new warehouse and have been really getting to grow and scale and be in the weeds of operations. I think that's just another muscle that I'm learning and really trying to lean into. As a team has grown, I think that's the other thing that how has my role changed and evolved is I now have this leadership team that's incredible and that I am so motivated by and learning from every day. Now it looks a little different on being in the weeds versus not being in the weeds in different parts of the business. Tell me about the exact moment that you were like, okay, we're turning this into a real thing. What were the first steps? When I launched in 2020 in February, that was off of about 18 months of R&D. Me just trying to figure out, I want a keepsake trunk. I want to personalize it. What does that need to look like? I literally want to like the makers in St. Louis. I went to a sewing room and worked with this lady who sewed some of our first prototypes. When I use the word bootstrapped, I could not mean it more. This business is so bootstrapped. We launched and made, I don't even know if I've ever broadly shared this, but we launched in my first sale. This person, the shop if I still came on naturally I freaked out. This person emailed in and was like, I wanted to buy two, but it says sold out because I had bought the website myself and I didn't have, like I had just had one in the quantities. They emailed, they got you emailed. Paige in San Francisco, my very first order who got us the Instagram. That was an interesting part. So I kind of, it snowballed, right? It was like sell these trunks and then make them. And because they're all, that really helped with, I would say like bootstrap, we were able to like take the order and then make the order with an artist here in St. Louis. We made, we sewed everything here in St. Louis. My husband and I built the trunks and our attic, like, and then we would ship it out. Fast forward to like making, you say like making it a real thing. I think, you know, that first year in business, it was me trying to prove that there was a product market fit. So it was nights and weekends. I was still working on my job, but we hit six figures that year. And I was like, okay, if we really did six figures, like what I'm doing this on the side, I need to give this a go. So January, 2021 was when I took a step back for my corporate career and said, I'm going full time PK. Wow. Okay. I'm so curious because you guys were working with like artisans and you're doing like one trunk here and there. Obviously you did pretty well your first year, but what were your margins like in the beginning? Like, did you know, okay, once we start scaling, these are going to be better or was it like really expensive to make the products in the beginning? So I started the business with $3,000 and it was very frugal. I, my parents actually came over and helped pack trunks like on the weekends and nights, like they'd help my husband and I pack. And so we called them our shipping department and I remember they asked me to like get a table and I was like, we can't afford a folding table. Like we're like, we're like kneeling on the ground, you know, so very frugal because I, what I didn't want to do is like over commit, you know, I wanted to prove this out. So when I was in that, I think I was so focused on just this product market fit, improving this out, knowing we weren't lopsided because I was able to take that first initial $3,000 and continue to propel the business. That being said, as we've scaled, we've obviously prioritized financial argument and grown the business in a way that makes sense and is sustainable. Okay. And what did, what did it look like? How long did it take for you to start catching? I know you caught some momentum in that first year, but when you started to really go, oh, wow, what, and what happened? Was it something, did someone catch onto it? Was it influencers? Was it just natural? Like how were you getting out there? What has been Korda since day one has been influencer marketing art, influencer partners, our content creator partners are like, I want to give every single one of them a hug in person. They took a bet on us in the early days and they invited us into their deeply personal stories. They shared us with their communities. And I think, you know, for a brand like Petit Keep, it does take that explaining of like the connection and the why and the meaning behind it because there is depth to the product. So we continue to lean heavily on influencer marketing as a whole. It's a very core part of our marketing strategy, but that's definitely been what, especially the early days before we did ads, et cetera. So were you reaching out to them personally or how were you finding your influencers? I was. Yeah, I was reaching out. I was DMing them, you know, saying like, hey, I love to send you a trunk. Like if you love it, I'd be grateful for a share, but you know, we just love to send you a trunk. So it was in their DMs and sometimes it'd be moved over to email, but it was a very, a lot of times it was very like a natural reason to like Katie McFarlane the first year. She was like sharing all about Keepsakes and how much you love them. So what's like a reason for being for the conversation? Okay. And you were gifting these at first? Okay. Yeah, exactly. And then just for people who have products, I know I have a product myself, like what was your frequency of gifting that first like year? How much product did you kind of put aside to be like, okay, these are going to be gifts for people that we know could potentially fall in love with it and share it. Do you remember? I wish I could say it was like incredibly intentional about the percentage. It was more just like, I'd find someone I'd offer it to them and if they took it. So we probably did, you know, first year that like 2020, maybe August to December, we probably gifted like 15. Okay. Full, which felt very meaningful for a $300 item and yeah, totally. And frankly, they literally all moved it. Like they were all like the way that they talked about it, the way that they all had such an amazing impact. That was huge because I think storytelling, like they can storytelling the brand. So now we're more intentional about it. And even with like launches, we'll say, okay, we're going to set aside 5% of like a volume of a launch for our influencer partners, things like that. Yeah. Okay. I love this. I think also for, I think you have a really unique special product. So more people are probably willing to share it. But for anyone listening, was there a way that you approached it when you were chatting with them? Like, what did that conversation look like? So I was very, I mean, like very friend to friend, you know, sending the DM, if they were something like very authentic myself to, and that like, if they were someone I had been following on on their journey, being like sharing that offering to share with them. And I think just leading with gratitude is like always an important thing. Like every single influencer has a business, a massive business they've poured their heart into they are the, like they are putting themselves out there. And I would play, I just don't take any of that for granted that they're willing to give us a slice of their, the eyes of their audience. Yeah. Okay. Love that. All right. As your business has grown, how has your role changed? So tell me from kind of like start to where you are now, like where have things shifted? Kind of want to also know like what's been some of the most challenging roles that you've had to take on? This is a very timely question because this year, our team has grown in a big way this year because while the business has grown also like the way we've managed our supply chain and apps and bringing things in house like that has also grown in our team. And it's been learning for me because I am someone that's so connected to like the weeds and I love the weeds. I love the build. Like I get so much energy from it, but I also have this incredible team where fully female team, there's 15 of us and I feel so energized by them that I also need to like take a step back and you know, so it's been a really, it's been a really good learning. So I'd say my role early days obviously was just you know, in like doing CX, building the trunk, sending out the trunk, X, Y and Z, the whole thing. And now there's while I'm still in the build, we have infrastructure that we've got really strong just incredible team members that are leading each one of their channels. Okay, so for you now, when you say you know it's been challenging, you have to kind of step out of it. Is it because you want to be a part of everything? Like what is the role that you do day to day now? But I also want to know what roles did you know right away you had to fill because you were a major bottleneck? So my first hire was like kind of this like operations, like smorgasbord, like led CX, they led you know, someone you say what was CX? Like customers emailing us asking about like shipping updates. Okay. Anything customer like someone emailing us. Okay. So that was my first hire. Ironically, some of my next couple hires were marketing, because we are we're a social first company. So that needed to be focus area. I love marketing and branding like I shared, but I don't have a design bone in my body. And so I needed to make sure we brought talent onto the team. And so we have like the most amazing marketing team that's we're doing design and house brand, like everything in house. So really built up our marketing team. And now really right now, where this year has been we call it the year of ops and like building out our supply chain in the same passion. So it sounds like you have opened your own warehouse. So like you've vertically integrated did that like, obviously that has plans to save a lot of money. But in the beginning, how did that feel? Was that scary? Or did that feel like a clear yes, this is going to be great? It was literally all the things I I so we there was a lot of reasons why we did this and we still work with like our sewing partners are in Arizona in Virginia. And we still have like partners that were you know that are sewing for us and things like that. But the reality was we you know, customer obsessed always is our number one core value. We talk about it all the time is where our North Star needs to be to be able to do that in a customized business like three pills are really good at like sending out product right like repeated product. But we wanted to make sure with this customized core that we were having our stamp on on that. So that also I think in the digital social first world, like being able to create content and like showcase our product and like have that on a daily basis is really helpful from a brand perspective. Oh my god, yes, because you can like go get in there and really create BTS like behind the scenes. And yeah, I think that is absolutely huge. That's for anybody listening, like most companies do not have their own warehouse. They have three PLs where they are there, you know, packed out and sent out. And a lot of times they're not where the founder lives. So you can like I feel a little disconnected from mine. It would be absolutely amazing to do that, but it's not like monetarily feasible at this moment. But I love that like when you get to that place to be able to do that because I think especially for you, and it should be for every brand, but you have such a personalized brand that just like adding that extra personal touch is huge. So that's so exciting. That was this year. Yeah, it was earlier this year. It's been really, it's been really fun. Like honestly, it's been really special and just being connected to product like that is very it infuses in everything we do. Okay, I love that. All right. So petite keep is all about celebrating memories. What personal memory or keepsake inspired the heart of your brand? The heart of my brand. Well, it was absolutely my first daughter's keepsakes that was why I launched the brand. So she was one at the time. So it was kind of like big first like Jones like first birthday. Hmm. Hospital visit things like that that I wanted to tuck away on that being said, I have a bridal trunk. I started creating a trunk for my husband has a trunk that like some stuff lands in from his military career. So there's there's like several trunks around my house, not too many, but several that have important pieces to the puzzle. Okay, so have you ever wanted to like upgrade your trunk when new trunks come out as the founder? You're like, you know what? We launched a hot pink trunk this week and I have four girls and I literally was like restraining myself last night from ordering four hot pink trunks. You're like, okay, so I know the keepsake, but we're going to rotate because we have the company so we can better. Exactly. Okay, can you share a couple like just experiences or testimonies or moments that you've been able to give them or see what it's done like in friends or family or anything like that? So one of the things I mean, this is an SLI friends and family and I can share with that. But one of the things that we are obsessed with that we love getting to share and be a part of is like gender reveals and bridal showers. They're used very often in those situations and our customers are amazing and they send us the pictures, they send us the videos like daily we're getting pictures from bridal showers and gender reveals and that is so wild to see the reactions on people's faces and they open because it's, you know, if it's a bride, it's them, you know, kind of like fast forwarding over the years of like maybe it's a new name they're taking or a future that they're thinking about. If it's a gender reveal, it's like, oh my God, having a boy or girl when they open up the trunk. So that has been of lately like one of the most impactful things. Oh my God, how fun. It's that would be so you have such a fun business to follow along. Anybody thinking of starting a business, think of what you want your day to day life to look like. Yeah, exactly. Michael, what is it you want to be a part of? Okay, well, we we chatted about this, but you are a mom of five. That's insane to also be running a business. So I'm sure that you have help. Can you kind of break that down for us? 100% it takes a village through and through. And so I have five kiddos that are eight and under. The only way that we survive is with a village. So my mom actually recently retired and now has now stepped into doing a lot of whether it be school pickups or watching our one year old little boy, helping us grocery shop. But I would say that like, I'm learning in this in this stage of life, like, just to like relinquish and like, and accept that any kind of help because to your point, it is a lot like running a business and having five kiddos that feels like, that's a a lot of little bodies and minds you want to continue to empower and support to your full, your full capacity. How do you kind of take care of yourself? Do you are you what phase of the business are you in right now? Is it is it pretty stressful? Does it feel like you have things on walk? Like tell me about those different phases because obviously we know there's periods where it is like super intense. It's really hard. You want to quit like, or it's just, you know, in some cases, it might be such fast growth. It's so overwhelming. You don't know how to keep up with it. So what phase are you kind of in right now? And how are you managing that personally for yourself? I think it always has felt like a lot because of the growth that we've experienced over the last five years. But what's really special and exciting about right now is being able to share that feeling of excitement and pride and all the things that the positives that come out of that with a team, right? And so that versus like three years ago, you know, sometimes when it's just you in the build, like I remember how much heavier it felt. So it's become so much bigger than myself, which is exciting in so many ways. As far as myself and I'm just I think movement for me like working out and making sure I stay true to that is like my number one, my number one hack. I feel like that to me is directly related to my mental energy and ability to show up for my family and my business. Okay, what do you do? What does it look like? So I'm a big boot camp. So whether it's like fitting it in at 530 in the morning on my Peloton tread, or there's classes at my gym that I love that are like boot camp style. And then actually this summer I started taking up reformer Pilates, because after having five kids, I was like, McCore needs this. It's tough. So I'm a newbie like 100% newbie into that world, but I am excited to continue learning. I love it. I'm like two months into LaGrie Pilates. Okay, ever of all time. And I was like, I'm such a fitness girl, but I am two months in and yeah, it is no joke for core like it's it's the in two months, it's like the strongest my core has ever been and I've been away, lifter my whole like almost my whole life. So yeah, it'll help you. I mean, I literally was yeah, it feels like such an ambassador myself to do. Yes, it feels so I've been loving it. It's such I get why I get the craze. You know, I feel like whenever I talk to founders like really the ones who can feel I feel like who feel pretty confident and somewhat balanced, which is obviously a myth, but like feel good with what is on their plate for the most part. They are movers, like they're walkers or lifters or all of the above, but it's like a priority, because I don't know how I would deal with the stress or channel the stress of it without it. Yeah, I can tell like if there's a week with for whatever reason, like xy enzema has been traveling core or whatever, like it just doesn't there's been several days in a row where it doesn't happen. My stress levels are directly correlated to my movement levels. And so I think that that's the huge thing that like is just a has to be a line item in the day. I totally agree. We're having this conversation today, literally at Pilates talking about how even just like, like if you can do hard things physically, it does translate in your business. It truly, truly does. Like there's something about understanding that the benefit will always come after the challenge, like stay in it, stay in it, stay in it. And it's, it's like so it runs parallel to entrepreneurship. And I, I love that being able to see that. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. Okay, so you were on Shark Tank as well. That's how I  guttinoaview, through our mutual friend, Jamie Karanlima, and she set this podcast up, she's so amazing, I'm so grateful for her. But I would love to hear, because that is a crazy experience, truly. Like, you're a founder who's creating this thing that you love, and now you're supposed to go and pitch, and know your numbers inside out, upside down, and backwards, and stand there so confident in something that you're fairly new in, at the time, you know, maybe not, if doing that, you're fairly new in, or you've maybe never pitched like that. I wanna know all the thoughts, like when you first got like this, you know, whether it was an invite, I'm not sure how you got on it, or how you get on Shark Tank, but I kinda wanna know the roller coaster of emotions that got you there, and how you prepped for it. Yes, it was wild, and actually the filming was a year ago this week, which is bringing back all the excitement. So I applied actually a couple of years ago, like two or three years ago, and made it pretty far in the process, and then fell out of the process, like just didn't make it further. And so really had kinda hung it up on the shelf. It took a lot of time and frankly, a lot of energy away from building the business, so never thought I would do it again. And then fast forward to last summer, this is gonna sound like almost not real, but I really don't even remember, but I must have applied again on abc.com, something like that. A producer called me in July, and I was five weeks both part of him with my fifth child, and was actually in a place where my team was so amazing, and I was gonna take off a month or two of I hadn't had a mat leave with the last couple of children. I was so excited, and Shark Tank reaches out. And of course it's a yes. Like of course I won't do the process. So really doubled down, went through the interview, like the phone call went through the application process, filmed a couple like audition videos, Ian was accepted, flew out in September. A lot of people have said something similar to you, like going up on stage, knowing your numbers, and by all means, at the beginning of the process, I was nervous, you know, well, before I was out there, but when it was go time, it's almost like that mindset of like, I have been given the most wild opportunity to go share this company that I'm obsessed with, with the world. And I just, you kind of just have to put your binders on, and like, and go. So it was a really, really pinch me moment. And on top of that, I've watched every episode because my husband and I are like total nerds, and have seen, so we like, it felt very full circle. Wow, so I love that. Did you visualize or do anything like that before you went on? Like, tell me what your practice and everything looked like. So, funny you should ask that, the day before you fly out there, there's like a dry run that we did via Zoom. And I was so nervous, I like, actually felt like I was gonna throw up. And that I for sure would feel ill for like a month beforehand. Yeah, I like had to, you know, cause I also like don't have a theater background. Like I didn't, like, I'm not used to like going up and like giving a pitch type thing. And I was like, I was absolutely writing affirmations at my desk. Like, I know my numbers, I built this, this like literally writing out, I can do this, I can do hard things, you know? And then like after I wrote those out and like had the dry run and went while of like giving the pitch, I actually like took them to my children that night, when my girls came home from school, I was like, I just wanna show you this, like I was so scared today. And like this is how I overcame this. And at the time my daughters were in first and second grade, so like my oldest too. So they were like obviously very young, but like, I think it's fun to bring them into the process, show them that I was scared. And then like grownups can be scared too and figure out how to overcome it. I love that. Do you feel like you brought your family kind of with you through this? Like, were they really aware of what mom was building? They are so much of the process. It's been really special. Whether it be, you know, them coming with me to the warehouse to, and you know, getting to make a padlock and things like on the actual, like the early days inspiring prints, it's been a, they've been part of the build for sure. Do you feel like you notice anything? I know they're young, a lot of them are pretty young, but do you notice anything in them as far as creativity or the way that they talk about what they wanna do in the future because of what you do? I do. I feel like they're acutely aware of like, like the building and business, which then on the folks, and I feel like sometimes I'm like, how do we make sure to expose you to like, all the professions versus just saying like, I wanna work for Petit Keep when I grow up. Yeah. So I, you know, representation is everything. Like them being able to see this is what they see. So this is what they want to see. So, which is great. Like I'm so excited and if that's something that they're interested in, but also want to make sure they have all the, in front of them. Okay. Did you have a moment where you did not know if you were gonna be able to continue or was this just like, how am I gonna keep up with this rocket ship? On a macro level, no. Like this is like, there is so much runway for Petit Keep. There's so much passion from our entire team. I am so obsessed with it. And I know our customer, like she continues to show us that there's continued opportunity for growth on a micro level, like absolutely. Like they're like, the low lows are 100% there. Every entrepreneur has that. You know, we definitely showcase the high highs a lot more than the low lows because they're more fun to talk about. But that's where resiliency hits in. And you remind yourself like why you're doing it and what steps you need to take to overcome it. And kind of just taking that deep breath and going back to like grounding yourself on your why. Can you share any like major moments for you that really sucked, that did not go well? Sure, I can actually share with you on that happened like last week. The warehouse next door to ours had a fire and we obviously have a fabric-based business. And so, you know, get a call at six a.m. Saturday morning. I go meet our property manager, 6.30 and we're literally moving product out because we need to make sure that the integrity remains, you know, absolutely perfect for our customer. So luckily we were able to act fast and we were not like gravely impacted, but it was like an out-of-body experience because what I think it reminded me of is like nothing is certain and guaranteed. And like in these situations where you feel like you've literally dotted your eyes and crossed your teeth, like the most wild thing can come in and kind of not going your feet. And so I would say our team is so agile and that's the type of thing that you just have to be in entrepreneurial and building a business. There are so many variables, especially in a product-based business. I used to have just like digital-based businesses, but that even in digital, like you just, you don't know what's gonna happen in history on the day of your launch, you know? You don't know what is like, you don't know if technology is gonna crash. You don't know, you have no idea. And I think that what you've shared just about you have to be ready to pivot, you have to be ready to say, okay, we can't get stuck here, we can't get stuck on this. Like we need to create the next step or the next plan, but especially with product, like I almost can't think about it. You have to just do what you can do and not think about all the variables that can happen. It can just be kind of prepared on everything. Yeah, it's definitely, I will say like the way we've grown, our team has been incredibly intentional and we hire off of our core values and the reality is I'm surrounded by 14 entrepreneurs and that has been absolutely the reason for our growth and our success because the mindset of every single person on our team. And so that's just like one piece of encouragement that I like to share is that I think hiring off of core values and being incredibly intentional about the people you surround yourself with that is probably one of the best things you can do for the business. What would you say is one of the best lessons that you have gotten either from another entrepreneur or advice from someone on your team? Like what are some things that really stick with you that you feel like have been really infused into your company? Focusing on the customer, not competition is like number one. And we lead with that as a team. So while there are times where like blinders aren't necessary, like you need to keep things in mind. Like you'll hear us 99% of the time talking about our customer. And that has been shared with me by mentors before and is something that we have infused into the backbone of this company for sure. Can I hear about certain ways because a lot of people have, I mean, a lot of people have customers who are listening to this podcast. What are some ways that you really focus on them that you have felt have really just paid off and that you've loved? Sure. So on a basic level, our customer experience team, it's not super typical for direct-to-consumer businesses to have a phone line to have. And we meet our customer where she is. So if she's DMing us on Instagram, we don't move her over. If she's calling us on a phone, we answer the phone. If she's sending us a text message, we send her a text. So kind of on a very basic level, like we're always trying to do that, and kind of moving up the wrong. Another thing we have is the PK promise. And so that means love it or we'll make it right. So we know that people are coming to us in these highly anticipated moments of life. We don't take that for granted. And we want to make sure they walk away like obsessed with their experience so that they come back to PK. And so if there's something wrong with an order, if it's maybe like sometimes someone will get a thread color and they're like, ah, I didn't like that, you know, you need to make it right. And then the third thing, we actually have a customer brand trip next week. So we're taking six of our top customers to Charleston. And yeah, so and we're doing like a project lab with them and we're gonna, they're gonna help design a future print. And there's just a lot of celebration to be had around that as well. That is so exciting. So how do you maximize that as a brand? Are you gonna do a lot of social media around that? What does that kind of look like? So, yeah, we have such a similar mindset. So it started off with customer obsessed always, like just really living up to our core value and making sure that we treated customers that have some of our highest loyalty in our program. But we wanna lean on our digital social first company. So we've very much activated socially, whether it be like leading up to the trip and taking our entire following along when like our customers who were bringing how we made some decisions, how we planned, we've done that and started to like seed that whether it be email, Instagram, TikTok. And we're also doing a pop up in Charleston. So there's like, I feel like a revenue component there too. So we really are trying to think about it as a flywheel so that it's living true to our brand, living true to our values, but also like from a business perspective, like kind of filling up the full pie. Okay, I love that. What's exciting? Like what do you see for the future of your brand? Like do we see other products? Are we just gonna really work on growing this one line or what does that look like? So we definitely feel like there's opportunity in offering other products as far as like, whether it be higher end products or more opening price point products. So I'm excited for the next few months. We will be having a couple of products that really round out that assortment. So coming up, we know sometimes she's looking for even a more elevated option and sometimes she's looking for something that's a bit more of a quick decision. So that's definitely high on our mind, but we're going to into Q4, which is like our Super Bowl. So I feel like our entire team is like, ready to like jump into the field and we're excited for the next three months. I'm so excited for you. And January is gonna feel so good. Hopefully you get a little break and everyone can have a break as well, but I know it's also so fun and so exciting too. So, cause you are coming up on gifting season, which you guys, this is so exciting because she just made your life so much easier with getting a gift for somebody who you know is sentimental, somebody who you really, you know, just like deeply care about and you wanna show them, but you guys have to go to the site. So where can we learn all about it, Lindsay? And we're also gonna put everything in the show now too guys, so I'm gonna have her tell you, but you can also scroll down and click. Thank you, Lori. So you can find this on PetiteKeep.com. Also, if you on Instagram follow us at PetiteKeep, there's a lot of fun things happening there. Okay, you're amazing. I'm so grateful for you. And I'm excited for everybody to experience this because it truly is such a special unique thing. And I'm so glad that you acted on your big dream and that you pulled through throughout all of the challenges. And I just love meeting another entrepreneur who's doing huge things out in the world. So I'm grateful that you came on the show. Thank you so much. Thank you, Lori. That's such a great praise coming from you. Thank you so, so much. I'm grateful for you. And you guys definitely go and share this with somebody who is interested in going for their big dream or just somebody who maybe you want to, you know, maybe get this gift from and you say hint it, you know? But until next time, everyone earn your happy. Bye-bye.

=== FILE: Multi-Million Dollar Success Starts with Releasing Shame & Owning Your Story with Shoshanna Raven [JvdCCUy_e5w].txt ===

 it's unconscious for so many of us. We're like, I don't have shame. If you've ever hedged, if you've ever apologized, if you ever said yes or you want to say no, what if I'm not lovable? What if he leaves me? What if I end up alone? All of this, this is shame. The thing that shame does is it keeps you quiet. The thing that you need the most in a lot of those times is someone to say, oh my gosh, me too. Everything really large in my life that has been one of the largest challenges I haven't gotten through alone. It's been because someone says me too, here's what I did. ["The Last Song of the Year"] Shoshana, welcome to the podcast. I'm so excited to have you on. I'm so happy to be here. I found you through one of our mutual friends and I'm so excited that I did because I love all the topics that you talk about. We, you know, I'd seen my friend, Amanda Francis, go and speak at your event. And I was like, hold on a minute, who is this person? Because I have a big background of female events and I feel like whenever I meet another woman who does large female events, I'm like, okay, a lot of times our mission, our vision, those things are very much the same because if you feel called to put on an event, which is very, people who have never done them, it's like one of the most expansive things that in my opinion, you can go through as a human. So I reached out because I was like, I feel like I would love to have a chat with this person because I got to see the event, I heard great things about it and I really wanted to connect. So I'm excited that not long after this, we're having this conversation right now and the more that I dug in, the more I'm like, oh, I really, really love your message, where it's coming from, the values, the fact that you're really all about like slaying shame and fear. And continuing on with it. So I'm excited to open this up because that is your battle cry in a way is shame, right? So tell me where that came from. Well, I want to start off. I think we're gonna dive in. You are the peer embodiment of collaborative frequency of more is more. I'm just like, yes, new friends, which is everything I'm all about. I'm like, I want to join a new space and like blow up. If it's a chat box, chat room, I'm like, oh, I want to be a party. I want to connect and you are probably like one of the top super connector people I've ever met. Like it is just amazing. You've already connected me with people who have really like changed things for me. And it's having someone like you in your orbit is just such a dream. So I'm so excited to like collaborate with you to get to know you. It's amazing. Okay, I do have to tell you that that is my, it's my absolute favorite thing on earth to do with the right energy. And I can, you know, I can recognize it now really, really fast. So I will say it took a lot of work of doing wrong connections and collaborations to learn the energy that I understand is something that I actually just call it girlfriend energy. But that means a lot to me. It means like my solar plexus feels good. It feels very mutual. It feels excited. Both parties feel excited. There's not one that's kind of like, I'm really like, I feel like you're benefiting from this, but I'm not, it's very, it just feels like a very clean, mutual girlfriend, let's be friends, like see how we can help each other. And that's just taken years to learn. And like I won't jump into things as quickly as we did if I don't feel that. So yeah, that's you. Yeah. And you have to make all the mistakes. I think I have to make my Christians. That's something recently like an expert is someone who has made all of the mistakes imaginable and a narrow window. So yeah, that is fit. Like things don't work. Yeah, you see, you learn. And yeah, I'm just, it's such a joy when you see someone who's also creating for the love of creating. I know that we were speaking about that before. Like collaborations, like, yeah, you win and who's winning more. And it just all feels very transactional rather than what I love about podcasting is, I started living brave with a podcast that had no business, that had no offers. I just felt like I had a message that had changed my life. And if I didn't share it with someone, like I was going to pop. Every time I got quiet, I sat in the meditation. It was like, it was kind of like all this creative energy bubbling inside of me that was just looking for a release valve and it was gonna come out somewhere. And so I didn't know what I was doing and I didn't know how it was gonna work. And like I was staying up until like 3 a.m. You know, editing this podcast on GarageBand, just trying to get my voice out. And my computer actually crashed. Like my first podcast and I didn't back anything up. I didn't know what I was doing. I'm like crying in the back of the Apple store. Like so at grief, you know, because you forget like tech just happens. And when you have a media business, you figure this out and I started all over and it just felt good to create. And it just felt good to express. And it just felt right. And I think as someone I never considered myself a creative person, I wasn't good enough to be creative. I was analytical. You know, we get put in our lane at an early age to really claim that we get to make art. Even if I don't know how to draw stick figure and my handwriting looks like a raccoon on crack, like I can make something and then other people can benefit from it. And I think people lose that in their business when it becomes very transactional. And what I like to teach is that we really are co-creating our reality on different planes. Like there's our focus and what we feed, we focus on and energy flows too. And our frequency, like what we are drawing in, vibes don't lie, you can feel it. Like you don't have to get super woo to understand that, right? And then on the material plane. So when you're loving what you're doing, when you're doing it, when you have passion and when you're really playing the game for the love of the game, like you're collaborating with people not to get something next month or next year, but you see that everything you pour in when you are playing to just keep playing because you love it, it comes back like 10-fold. And six months, like in six years, it's just, there a doorway that you weren't even looking at that looks unrelated. It's just like what you pour in comes back. And that's what I love so much about collaboration, what you guys are doing with Glossy and how all the dots on your journey have only connected, you know, looking back. So, Shane's lying. Okay, Shane's lying being the foundation of what I do. And you said, you know, helping people work with their shame and with their fear. We definitely slay Shane, but what I've learned, and I haven't met a single person who has slayed fear. Like I have been behind the scenes of so many successful events, lives, businesses, and I actually love to just give people permission to be human and to feel brave and bravery frequency. It's not like confidence. Confidence is like settled and sturdy and we all want that, but we don't want like the really kind of messy, crazy, what feels chaotic part of the growth journey, which if you're growing at a rapid pace, you're never really settled this place of confidence. There's some things that you feel confident in because you have evidence, and then you're being brave over and over, which literally means you're just with fear all the time, you're with uncertainty. And the greatest thing in my new book, it's called The Limit Does Not Exist, I talk about the four main limits, so hold this back from the sense of, oh my gosh, the limit does not exist, Lindsay Lohan moment. The first limit that makes everything else quite impossible. I love talking about how we navigate relationships and circumstances and societal systems, but the first limit is ourselves, and shame is like the deepest lie that we hold about ourselves. It's so dense and it's so unconscious that it sucks your energy, and you walk around hiding. And so shame, it's okay to have things that we hold private from the world. I think people see me in there, I don't wanna tell the internet about my perp status, thank you very much. Lindsay, you don't have to do that, right? But the idea is that anything that we're holding back, like what if they find out the truth about me, that there's this thing, trauma is anything that we feel happened to us, not for us. And there's nothing from our past that we can't turn into post-traumatic growth, right? So this thing that I'm holding that happened to me that if people found out, they would know, I'm not really who I say I am, I'm not really lovable, I'm not really enough, I don't really deserve to be here. And that just distorts every single layer of reality that we're creating change on. We hyper focus on something that doesn't need to matter, all the energy flows there, and then we make it mean that we're bad, that we're wrong, that life forgot about us, and we start to compensate in our action. We start to try to hide and protect and avoid. And as you know, being someone who's created amazing things, it takes having an approach strategy. I'm gonna run towards what I want to create, but when we're protecting, hiding, avoiding, it leads to very short-term strategy. It leads to building a life that doesn't even feel like our own to prove that we're good enough. And so my main way to break through limit one is through vulnerability. Is there like what my podcast did in the beginning before I had an offer, it was like, let's just talk about the stuff that no one's talking about, because through authentic connection, you will find freedom when you drop the mask, you give other people permission to, am I modeling the way? The rarest thing on planet Earth is not the woman who was confident, that's amazing. It's not the woman who has it all figured out, that's great. It's the person who's willing to be seen and who clearly loves and accepts themselves. Like I wasn't the prettiest, I don't have all the clothes, I didn't have a boyfriend, I didn't have the bank account, I built my business from my parents house, it was like the 90s, 80s decor, it wasn't that, that's magnetic, it's someone who's like, wow, they love and accept themselves, like for who they are and where they've been at and they know who they are and they know, at least not even where they're going, but what matters to them and they're willing to find the gap in the conversation and go places other people won't go. And so that's my passion in the world, all these people liberate themselves and then play all these really fun games and business in the world, like okay, now we get past ourselves, that's just a ticket into the arena. You know, here we can actually play the game. So that is the number one foundation truly. I have so much to say on this and I wanna hear just one or two of your stories as well, but as you're talking, I'm like, yep, that was the first thing I had to get over. I had two really large moments in my life. I actually had hundreds and hundreds of these moments, but some that popped into my head immediately were, I did not graduate high school. I was raised Jehovah's Witness, so like door knocking my whole life and I wasn't allowed to hang out with anyone outside of my religion. So that really caused a lot of like, just kind of like a lot of challenges around even learning, how to like talk to other humans and networking and pretending as I got into business, quote unquote, that I was smart enough. And I had such shame around, how are people gonna take me serious? Which, you know, when I started business, this was, you guys, this was like 17 years ago now when education truly, if you don't remember, if you're too young for this, it was everything. Like, if you are a business, you better have gone to college or you better have something that people will take you serious on, not some high school dropout who figured out how to sell some stuff online. So literally it was like, I was hiding this thing that I thought if people found out that they wouldn't take me seriously. So it just felt like, oh my God, any minute someone's gonna research me, they're gonna find this out, I'm gonna be a fraud, I'm gonna be canceled, it's gonna be all the things. And that was holding me back in so many ways and holding me back in like rooms that I even wanted to be in because I've always felt like I was one deep conversation away from getting found out. So guess what? I never put myself in those experiences because it was always like I was kind of protecting myself and I think people felt that it was like, why can't we go super deep with this girl? It was such a protective layer which doesn't allow your absolute genius to come out which will come out you guys because if you know it, you know it listening to us right now. Like you felt it, you know it when you had heard her open with those first few minutes, you feel it, you know you need to, you know you're gonna burst if you don't get that thing out but the foundation is literally exactly what she's saying is that getting past that. And the only way I got past that was being vulnerable and being like, hey, I gotta like get this out there. I gotta tell the story. And I had to believe, I loved what you said, I've never heard that. Trauma is the belief that it's happening to you, not for you. And I actually had to frame the story. Like if I can do this without graduating, look at what you guys can do. I flipped the story. That's what gave me freedom. And so before that, no freedom after I flipped the story, talked to a bunch of people, got vulnerable with girlfriends, you know started letting that out one person by one person. That's when I freed myself and a whole other level came through. So I have a couple others, but I wanna hear one for you that was like, what was your first foundational, like, oh shit, like this is shackling me. Oh, I love that we all feel sometimes alone in our journeys until we see, it's different content, but the same context. And I think that's really the path of transformation. Why transformation is such a spiritual journey is that you're so in your story, you take everything at face value. And that's really what I did. It's like someone tells me this is good, someone tells me this is bad, someone tells me this is how you get taken seriously. But even when we're talking about success, like people are confused about what success is really about. It's like if we want to get a promotion, get a raise at a traditional job or you wanna get an A in school, like then yes, follow the rules, play the part, look the part, but in real life and love and entrepreneurship, that's not how the world works. You're rewarded by creating something rare and valuable. Like right, like then the more rare and valuable it is, like that's how you gain success and then having the right business model, lots of you just scale it, right? So it's like, it has nothing to do with what you think it's about. And I think when you break free from the box and you realize you weren't even in a box, like right now I feel like I have probably reached one percent of my capacity. Like I don't know what kind of matrix is I'm still living inside of, right? But it's like that whole discovery process. So for me, it was really the whole journey with, I was gosh, what age I was in my twenties and I was traveling, I had quit my job and I felt like this conditional sense of competence on the outside. And I dove into some spiritual work, like, oh my gosh, I'm more than my mind, my body, I am not Shoshana, I'm the unborn, un-dying self. Yes, right? And like in the other part of my journey, but what I did and how naive I was, is I thought that meant I could just suppress my human story and I could just transcend it. And I was in Nepal and I got really sick and I had a 104 fever, nerve pain down my legs, thousands of miles away from family and friends, staying at this $5 night guest house in Bhaktapur, this medieval city, huge New Year celebration, thousands of people in the town square playing tug-of-war over a giant chariot. I'm trying to hold myself up on this Ganesh statue, like, what's going on? You know, the $1 antibiotics weren't working, I'm shivering under piles of blankets, it's like the heat of the summer. And it's really scary that I finally go to the hospital. Like, okay, you know, women sometimes just get stressed. Like, that moment you just feel like angry, but really scared. And so I got back and I just had this feeling, I open up my phone and my hands like start shaking as I'm typing, like I just know and that all the anonymous threads come up full of pain, full of heartbreak, full of shame, isolation, accounts that don't even want you to know their name, herpes, and I just know, in a second, my whole world crumbled. I actually saw a photo of myself and saw someone else. It was like that, it was a complete identity, ego death really moment of like, wow, my life is over. Like, I had it coming to me, I attracted this thing, no one's gonna love me. And it was like all of this like confidence that it looked like I had on the outside, like traveling the world, I'd put my job, like you saw what was really underneath. You saw what I really felt about myself. You saw what I had inherited from women, from generations and generations in our families, right? And so I didn't want to get found out. And so I booked my flight home and I just felt like an absolute victim. And it didn't matter that people told me, that I saw the stats that one in two women will have an STI before age 25, didn't matter. No, because the shame was already there. It's unconscious for so many of us. We're like, I don't have shame. If you've ever hedged, if you've ever apologized, if you ever said yes when you want to say no, like there are reasons why you are not acting in alignment with your truth, right? It's there. If you already maybe felt like, what if I'm not lovable? What if he leaves me? What if I end up alone? All of this, this is shame. And so it finally gave my shame something to grasp onto. And I started running for myself again. This girl who had quit her job to go, you know, find enlightenment in India. I moved to Denver and I start going out all the time. I have no boundaries. I let everything in and out and I'm completely, I'm running from myself. And isn't until I'm crying myself to sleep one night after a party where I feel so alone in a big room. And I just hear that familiar voice, which was our highest self, like who lives in that little, when you're, sometimes she comes to you and it's just, there's nowhere else to go. It is so quiet. There's, you can't hide, you can't run. It's like, you know exactly what to do. You can keep doing this. You really can't, and no one will make you wrong for that. But you know what to do. You can become your own best friend again with the message. And this really starts with, what's a good place to start on any journey? It's like loving, love yourself. Love yourself back to wholeness. And not through really thinking so much about it, but through taking all the energy and focus back onto my life and back onto treating myself while it read the half marathon. I traveled across the country, learned how to pitch a tent. I was like elbow deep and like other people's dishes on the blissware team at yoga festivals. Through that journey, I started to open up. I started to come back to myself and I started to talk to people. I had this feeling, like maybe you're carrying some pain. Like maybe you can heal yourself. It was just, we get these nudges, we get this guidance. I thought, what if I started playing with this, with this thing I'm carrying. And I think with the travel and with all the new adventures, I started to feel space where there was one shame. Started to just play. I didn't know this was energetics, but my focus shifted because there was new space. And then I started entering the field of energetics. Like what if I didn't approach this of the sob story and this victim story? Because often when you're like, I have something to tell you and you're telling a lot of tears, people are like, oh my God, I'm so sorry. And they tell you a scary thing back. So it was like the world will match you. And I started kind of playing with it. So people would ask me like, can I have a sip of your water? I'd be like, yeah, I'm herpes, don't worry, you won't get it. Like I just started playing. Like I'd be like flirty and funny. And I'd be like earnest and sincere and passionate. And say like, yeah, I'm actually really passionate about this. People started listening and I started to really stand out. And I made a lot of new friends and I knew that's when I had to share my story and I was gonna go public about it. But I had this intuition, like before I do that, I'm going to prepare by doing the scariest thing that I could possibly think of. And I call it the vulnerability project. It's an episode of one of my podcast. You can listen to me like shaky voice talking about it. It's like, I'm going to tell the people I'm most terrified to tell who like, including the person I was dishonest with, if I can meet them in person better, I'm just going to do the thing that scares me the most because I'm feeling that'll just set me free. And then what can touch me if I share it with, I'll share it with and it was just the most, I did not want it to end. It was the most liberating journey. Realize I'm the only one holding myself back. People are trying to make out with me as I tell them about my STI doing herpes. You know, like what's going on? And you're like, hey, like I felt like love. I always thought that people loved me for who I was pretending to be. But when I had nothing to hide and people like, how can I support you? Like, can I help you with a website? This is so cool. What you're doing and then opening up about their stuff. Like, I couldn't shut up about this. I was like, I found the magical elixir. I'm free. And I felt all this energy rush into my life. People always tell me how much energy I have. I'm like, I really feel like it's all this weight that you're holding. Every time I told the truth, I felt lighter. Felt like all this energy rushed back into me that I can just tap into. And I just did not want to shut up about it. And that's really how the living brave started through that vulnerability story. So I love hearing about, you know, your journey of this thing that we think is such a big deal. And the crazy thing about that is that when we hide it to belong, it keeps us separate. But when we share it, it builds a bridge. Now we can connect. Now we actually feel like, I know you, I trust you. My defenses are lowered, which for anyone in business or sales for any kind of relationship, I mean, that's the first step. Yeah, I'm thinking about how every time we don't share something that is, and like you said, we're not saying like go and share all of your stuff right away. This comes in levels for sure. You guys like it comes in waves. You get to a place where like over time, when you do this enough, you actually do want to share the thing that might seem the craziest to you right now, because what happens is every single one of those, it weighs something, like it's baggage. And picture like every time you go to do something even challenging, you're like, nope, you got to pick up every one of those shame suitcases and carry it with you. Like there's just no energy for that. And so as you put them down, you're like, oh my God, I had no idea that I'd feel more alive, awake, more connected to people, more willing. Like when I walk in the room, I don't feel as like scared. I don't have as much anxiety because you're just like, here I am. Like, yeah, I outed myself. Like you outed yourself totally. It's just realizing it's just content. And I think that's what putting it out there is. You see it for what it is. You see it's a story. You see it's a valid story. It's a real story, but it's just a story like, oh, I'm doing this thing. Lori, I was feeling this thing, right? Like that, this is what was happening for me. It's like I can observe myself. I'm the context of my thoughts and feelings. I don't get wrapped up and just live as a reaction to my life and to circumstance. I see that I'm co-creating with life and the material that it's giving me. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. I love this because you're flipping even so much of what is happening in my life right now. Like I'm in a fundraise. There's some normal challenges of being in a startup. But if I were to look at them as, wow, there's a lot of challenges right now. I can actually flip it and say, how could this be happening for me? And truly, it's directing me if I really dig into each one of what's working, what's not, who's actually working, who's a lot of talk. I need to move quicker because success loves speed. And it's making me very clear. So there's a lot of challenges that if we looked at them that way, they're actually just trying to get you more clear faster. If there's a whole bunch of shit in your life, it's probably asking for you to sit, get some more clarity and move a little quicker on the things that you know are not for you anymore. And so I know that there's four limits. So we talked about the shame being number one as the foundation. I really deeply feel that the only way to go to a level two in your life is to start confronting these things. So I love your vulnerability project. Before we go to number two, I just want you to share like, what's a mini vulnerability project that we could do for ourselves? Like honestly, what I always share with people, like the practices are so simple that sometimes we don't allow them because they're too simple because that means we have to do them. Amen. Amen. Yeah. For like the, really getting through the main limit us and shame being the number one thing that holds us back, like exploring it. And you can do that through talking about it. You do that with yourself. You start even just through this podcast, you're probably starting to go, hmm, you know, what are some of the things that I tell myself? What are some, and you're just looking at the content. I was like, what comes up for you? What you tell yourself? And so I would say explore it and then name it. So you're like, oh, this is what's happening. This is the shame. This is the story. And then speak it out loud. And so I didn't go and publish my podcast. The first thing I started telling like Uber drivers, nail artists, like that hurt. Like not my friends or someone who I thought would say, don't share that, right? But somebody who I was like, I trust this person. I'm gonna share my story. And then I went and I told the people that would be most frightening to tell, you know, and I've had, I remember had a client start to work with me who, she signed up for business support. And obviously we are at the bottleneck most of the time. When we dug in, she had a lot of, she had postpartum depression, really that she hadn't looked at. And a lot of feelings that she didn't want first to be found out about at all. She was very afraid that people would know the truth about her. She had read this blog article that made her feel really connected. And then at the end it said, but I don't regret motherhood. I'm not a monster. And it was like the second she read that, she's like, oh, nevermind, I have a monster and I'm having, I have that. I can't tell people how I'm really feeling. And so she started opening up to me. And I started to like really hear her and started to see what was going on for her. And she just started a conversation with her community. It wasn't even about what she did for business, but it was just like, hey, why are moms like real experiences? And I started to see that people actually felt, had similar experiences as her. And when you integrate that part of yourself, you realize it's not all of you. You realize it's just a part, you realize that it's just a shadow. You realize it's just fear. You realize the more you try to suppress it, the more you feel like that's what I am. And it takes over your whole life rather than like accept, embrace your whole self. So these are just little like the many vulnerability projects that people can do. I love that. And what I want to say that's like such, the thing that shame does is it keeps you quiet. The thing that you need the most in a lot of those times is someone to say, oh my gosh, me too. And then also to get support. So everything really large in my life that has been one of the largest challenges I haven't gotten through alone. It's been because someone says me too, here's what I did. And so holding all that shame and holding all of those secrets is keeping you blocked from the support that somebody who went through the thing now feels like it's their life purpose. They came out with whatever it is that was shameful that they feel bad about it. And it now is like, you came out about your herpes. Now I can't imagine how many women are being freed of feeling the shame because it is now part of your life purpose not only to free women who have that but so many other women that you're freeing from other things. But it becomes like, it's like this thing that's a deep shame to you becomes your purpose and someone is waiting to help you. Like someone is actually waiting to feel their life purpose and fulfillment for you to speak up and say, I need this help. Like this is where I'm at. And they're waiting to help you. And that's gonna give them purpose and it's gonna help you through the process. And it is like undeniable how I see this in every scenario. I know that you've probably heard this before but like truly when we're in our purpose it's that we're helping the people who are three or five years behind us. We're just helping a former version of ourself. And we don't get to do that until we literally like share the biggest thing that we need to get through. And so it can be small to start but I'm telling you once you start this game I know it's unbelievable to think that you're gonna be sharing the thing you feel most ashamed about or dumb about or if people found that out they wouldn't take me seriously or whatever it is. But that might just be like the pivotal portal to this life that you dream of. Well, there's so much I wanna say about this because there's on the personal side of things like get help, get support. There's also unlike people still think of vulnerability as weakness that I need help, I need support. But when I look at this like you're not asking people to co-sign collapse because then people just start dumping everywhere and they're like, we can bond on this horrible thing that happened to us. Like that's not the point. It's like this thing happened to me and it happened for me and I'm sharing this and here's who I am and here's the truth of who I am and here's how, oh my gosh, you're a, you've helped people in relationships. You say, I got mad at my partner yesterday and I said something I didn't want to say and then I use the tools in my toolbox and here's who I led myself and you're being a real ass person. Like you're inspiring.  amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine, amlodipine and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and Now I feel like I can go have that to you, right? And so that's the bridge that we walk over. I love that. Okay, number two. Let's count number two. Oh my gosh. Well, good part, like the first part of the book is all about life, art, history, magic, and inspiration. And then it's all the shame slayers. So part two is where I think things get really fun. And I love playing here. And I already saw some of this come up in our conversation. So you are the first limit and shame slaying is the tool to move through that. The second one is circumstance. So it's like life, lifeing. So when you said like things are challenging right now in the fundraising round, like events are expansive, like those kinds of things, like, oh my gosh, my tech broke. The Zoom link isn't there. They sent the wrong link. I bombed the speech, like I wanted it to be sunny outside. It's raining, those kinds of things. Like that's often what holds us back. And though the tool is the chill rocket ship. It's all about the chill rocket ship, how we can like expand our capacity, how we can get out of this dualistic world of like good and bad and we can be in a state of active surrender and we can be in a little bit more of a flow. And then the third is social. So we had internal, external and now it's social relationships. And this is really the realm of emotion, like energy between two things, right? Energy flowing is energy emotion, emotion. So how we relate to not just other people but also our relationship with money because our attachment styles show up with everything, our avoidance patterns, like how do I play with energy? How do I shape shift outcomes in my favor and not at the highest good? And how do I learn skills of influence and leadership? Like this there gets really fun. And then the, and that's the Jedi, the Jedi training school. And then the fourth limit is systemic. So I call it rules and the tool to overcome that is the rock star. And this is like, they all kind of came through every year or two in my business as I was growing. And so the rock star is really like my whole, probably since motherhood, but I've always had threads of the rock star but it really coming out and saying, ah, this is a thing is breaking through the old systems of success and wealth. And the way that you're supposed to do things and allowing yourself to stop trying to be taken seriously and innovate and play and do the work. And I think rock stars prove that all you need to be successful is to create stuff that you love that other people want and hang out with other rock stars. It does not matter, even though all of these amazing folks on like habits and making your bed is great and journaling's where all these things are great. It's like, don't get distracted. Don't let your work prevent you from the work. Like make great art that you love and other people want and what they want, they will pay for it and just hang out with other rock stars. And everything else you can just strip away and like have some freaking fun and innovate. So that's like the fourth limit. Oh my gosh, I love this. So I, you know, podcasts allow you to talk to hundreds and hundreds of people. I think I think I've done, maybe it's like 1450 podcasts now. With that, I want to point out some of the most successful people that I have interviewed and things that have gone well in my life is because we've started to turn these things that look like challenges and problems into how could I play with this? Or it's like, it's treating life more like something that we get to interact with in a playful way. And that has been a life-changing thing for me. So I love that in all of your languaging through this whole podcast, it's been like, hmm, how could I play with this? Like maybe it's not what I think it is. Like maybe it's not happening to me. If it, you know, how could this be happening for me? And if so, how could I play with this and use it for something else? It's like life is offering us, yes, life is lifeing, but you just pointed out something that is so important for people to realize, like life will reflect back to you, whatever you need for like your highest evolution and that thing that you want. So if it's fucking lifeing hard for you right now, which there's certain areas for me that are like, I am on the brink of a next level and everything if I assess it is confronting some patterns that are not gone for me yet. Like I have an avoidant pattern that even if I like, you know, think I've gotten better at it, it'll be like, no, but I hid that one avoidant one in the closet. Like I have been avoiding knowing that I have to empower myself with certain skill sets. And that is like blaring me in the face because I'm handing my power over to people in certain ways. So with that, like it's being able to go, okay, but where am I really actually like having that thing still show up? And I hope that you can hear like, I'm not, I was upset for maybe like a week, that's okay. Like I was like, oh God, I can't believe like I let this happen after all this time. I know I'm like, no, no, like you're doing so good here and you're doing great here and good for you and having so much grace with myself. But I had to like work back to that and go, okay, this is like truly asking me, like here's where your power can come back to you in the weakest place. Like that is your biggest offering of your highest power is in your weakest place if you're willing to sit in that. That's beautiful. And self forgiveness, just forgiveness, general. It's like that's one of the bags that you're carrying. And so it's like, can you, healing is bringing dignity to a past version of yourself. And saying, I did the best that I could and I'm moving forward and it all, like it all comes back. So it's like, really, are we back here to self love? But it's like, that's a good starting ground. That's a good place to be. And then from there moving forward, I love what you said about like, you're starting, it's just asking you like, what if, what if, what if, what if? And when I talk about life artistry and living brave being like one of my paths of life artistry, there are many different paths. It always starts with plane one, there's three planes, it's focus and that's usually where transformation starts is just what if it's like you turn the disco ball and you see actually there's like internet fractals of reality. And then comes the energetic and then comes the action, material plane. But it's like, it really does usually, you know, start there. And one thing that I'll bring forward, I want to hear more about your story with Glocky is, like when you were talking and just for everybody, like about some things that are going on for you, a part of the book I speak about is called part of the game. And like you said, like this is the game that we're playing. And people don't realize it. Like part of the game of being human is the stuff. Part of the game of being a leader is that people are gonna, and having a really strong message, people are gonna love you and people aren't gonna like it. That's all part of the game. Part of the game of being in a relationship longterm and coming up against edges of each other's stuff. And it's hard and that's part of the game. Part of the game of having products and services and having some people, I don't know, maybe they even, they don't like you. Maybe they even charge back. Maybe they write lies about you on the internet. That's part of the game. And as this like eliminated the charge on so many things, it's like what we think sometimes is a mistake or we did this wrong or this isn't supposed to be happening or this negotiation went sideways. It's like once you're in the game long enough, you're like, oh, this is just kind of what happens. Like of course I can mitigate this, right? But like these are part of the taxes that I pay and I will have to pay taxes, right? This is it. And I don't think so. Like I try to over compensate or control or fold back. I can be with this, that's happening. So it's really cool. That's something that I find so inspiring about you and all your businesses is you're constantly, you can always make anything successful. And then you're constantly going into new industry and new market and new connections and learning so much. So cool. I'll thank you. Like can you share this more about where you're at with Glossy and even though we're calling it Glocky. That's the biggest for everyone's like, how do you say this? I'm like Glossy, but you know, well, Gloky, Glocky, whatever you're calling it, we'll figure it out with Glossy. And I love, you know, I think the journey of Glossy because it's a physical product to you guys. I started in the fitness world first of all, then I had a big online fitness membership for years. And then I did digital products, I did books, I did women's events, and then we're doing entrepreneurial events and masterminds. So I've been in this game for like, oh gosh, 17 years now, and also did network marketing. So people are like, well, you did a lot of like, that's 17 years of stuff. Like you will blow your mind of what you can do in 17 years. So with that said, it's like every single thing that I just mentioned had a massive one through four of everything you're saying, Shosh, that I had to go through. And I think the reason why I've been able to be successful in most of those, there's been giant failures within there as well. And those were incredible learnings that helped me be successful in the next one. But the reason that I've been able to pivot in that way is because I know that at every new venture, you're starting from the beginning. And I'm not too ashamed, and I've never let ego be my biggest overhead. I've always gone right back to beginner mode and been like, Grace, you're a beginner. You start over. Vulnerability has been my literal default of like, hey, I don't know what that means. Like you can imagine someone who did not graduate high school then going and trying to fundraise and learn the language of fundraising. They're trying to explain to you things. It'd be like trying to learn Greek, except they're explaining it to you in Italian and you know neither language. And that is actually what it feels like. So when you enter into these new spaces, if you do not get vulnerable from the very get go of, I don't know what that word means. Could you explain? Could you actually dumb this down to someone, treat me like I don't know anything? Because I kind of don't. Oh, I'm not sure I'm understanding that. Could you re-say it again? Like this is how my first six months looked. And this was on calls where people, you feel like you're supposed to know everything and you just, you literally know nothing. And they kind of treat you like you do because maybe you've had success in one other thing. And if I walked into these spaces and was pretending in any way, you cannot get to where you wanna go. Like you cannot get to where you wanna go pretending to be somebody else. You can't get to where you wanna go pretending to know what you don't know. Like that is the fastest way to stay stuck. And so I would say that Glossy is kind of like the epitome of all of the lessons that I've learned together and teaching me that even after 15 years, like Europe, I'm a beginner again. Like such a beginner. I had to change the network of people that I was hanging out with. I completely changed it. Meaning I still have those friends of course, but where I'm spending most of my time is I have to be with people who know this industry and who can feed me words of life during this time. People who understand that even though some of these challenges that I'll explain to someone who's never been in it, like you said, they'll kind of match like, oh, this is bad. When you go to people who have been through this before, they go, oh, what did you say? That's normal. That's part of the game. That's part of the game. And immediately. Oh, okay. Exactly. And so instead of my comeback rate going into, like instead of me going into shame, oh, I screwed up. Oh my God, what am I gonna tell my investors? This is so bad. You feel like such a fool. Instead they go, yeah, that's part of the game. What are you gonna do about it? Here's our next steps. Like here's what you have to go do. Like you only fail in this if you quit. Like you only fail if you don't stay in the game and learn from your failures. And so this has been such like a collective moment for me of like all of the bravery and all of the grace lessons that I've learned moving so quickly. There's no time in this type of industry. There's like no time to feel bad, feel shame to get stuck. It literally reminds me I'm really into like big sports analogies right now because all NFL football players, all of those people, they have to have something called a short memory. You can't get stuck on the last play. It's like you could feel so bad. You could completely literally just lose what was handed to you at a game time score. You could absolutely have just completely fucked up that catch. The whole team is pissed. The whole audience is booing you and you literally have to go doesn't matter next play. You cannot get stuck there. And so I think the bigger like the risk and the challenge and other people's exterior money and everything that comes with holding that capacity has just taught me that you have to get even better and better with this. So what it's taught me is that the bigger the blessing, the sharper your toolkit has to be and the quicker you have to tap into them. So Glossy is like the, it's just like the whole collection of the learnings. And I know there's only gonna be more learnings for me as I move into different phases. I love this. There's a chapter in the book that I call champion strategy. And it really is like part, and part of it's like why it's the end of the shame-slaying part. It's like once you've nailed shame-slaying and now you can actually live bravely and start approaching. It's like to be a champion. If you've got your eye on the gold, you've got your eye on winning. Like the highest possible level, you cannot be in an internal war. You can't be asking, should I be playing? Am I good enough to be playing the game? Like you've got, you've got a real level. Like you have to play the game. There's music, I don't have no time. Am I on the right top? Am I meant to be on it? Stop. Like I literally, it's like you should be playing with so much like intensity. I don't mean burning yourself out. I mean like a good level of intensity. Like I am present. Like I am locked in. I am honoring the miracle of my life that you don't even have time. Ask those questions. You don't have time to be at war with yourself. And so I love this. Like, you know, there's Michael Jordan go about, he's missed more shots than like most people would ever take him. Like he's, wow, you know, but that's, you have to. You have to keep going. And that's part of the rock star as well. It's like less thought more action. It's like always a mantra of mine. Less thought more action, less thought more action. Like yes, we use our mind, but then it starts to sabotage, just go. Because in business and entrepreneurship, there was such a benefit of fast action. There's, it's like, you can spend more time on something and get it from 80% to 98%. But the person who puts it out 80%, it's like by the time you did the 98%, they've put out 10 different iterations. So they're not looking at an 18% difference. They're literally in a whole different league because they got feedback, they got data, they've gotten body experience. And that is just so much more than just sitting there at the drawing board. So, you know, I love that Glossy is like, I'm just at a whole new level. And so, obviously we'll talk about in the intro, like what Glossy is and how it came to be, but what's your vision for Glossy? And like, you could talk just a little bit about like what it is, how it came to be. And yeah, you see this growing and what it could do for, for what? You know, a big reason I feel really tied to your message and when I saw some in the beginning, some things that you were chatting about is because Glossy is the embodiment of permission for women, I knew that the category that I was in of just not just, it's insanely amazing, but digital marketing, writing books, there was sort of, there can be a limit on some of the money you can earn, not necessarily, but back in the day, I felt there was a limit. Now, obviously shows you're teaching a lot about no limits and you are blowing the lid off of a lot of things. But a big conversation with a lot of my girlfriends was like, it's hard to keep seven figures and beyond, like I'm getting really burnt out. Now, this was back before 2020, this was like 2018. And there wasn't, there weren't a ton of other ways figured out yet of how to really, really scale a digital company. Now there's like a lot of different things that are being learned, but with that said, there felt like a cap on where we were at. It felt like a cap on your book deals, it felt like a kind of a cap on the earnings that you could do. And simultaneously, we were kind of freshly moved to LA within the first few years, and I was from the Midwest. And so the conversations were very, they were much smaller there in terms of what was possible for you. So when I moved to LA, the conversations got bigger, which was exciting, but in my female conversations, they were still having this like very much felt like a cap on our income earnings. And we very much were starting to feel that we knew money in the hands of women was really important, not just a little money, but like a fuck ton of money. Hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars. And I was like, okay. And at the time it was really only Sarah Blakely who was like, and maybe Alli Webb was just kind of exiting some of her company at the time. And there wasn't a whole lot of people, which is so crazy to say just a little while ago. And so my husband was like, he came home from a few of these dinners with some guys that he went to dinner with who were like guys who were ahead of him. And he was like, Lori, oh my God, this dinner table, like these conversations, they've sold their companies for hundreds of millions of dollars and they're helping each other do these deals. And they're like doing like almost these masterminds, but in like this different way with this large products companies. And I was like, so interesting. And he goes, do you want to come to one of these dinners with me? And I was like, yes. And so I went and I was vulnerable enough to ask questions and say, I don't know what that means. Can you explain that to me? Like I piped up at a dinner where I felt like the dumbest person. And I was like, you guys, I was like, women are not talking about this. Can you take a second and explain it to me? Because I'm getting like some major hits here. Like I need to learn this. And so I had a couple of those dinners and I was walking around my house one day like thinking about something that I wanted to create. I'm such a consumer. I love products. I've just have always been that way. And I literally fell to my knees. This doesn't happen very often, but once in a while my body gave out like in a good way. I fell to my knees, got full body chills and it was a message like you have to be the permission. And the only way to do that is to do it. And so I was like, oh, fuck, I have to go do this scary thing. And so that like unlocked that I wanted to do a products company. And that went down the rabbit hole of figuring out what is that product? What is something that a problem that I really want to solve? What is something that could be a bit of a white space in the industry, but not so much so that I'm have to do like so much education. It just sent me down this rabbit hole. And so Glossy is a daily beauty supplement. It's skin and gut and it's really truly beauty from the inside out. When I was in the fitness industry and I would do cover photo shoots, they would always write me an email before I'd go fly up there like two weeks before and they would say, make sure you're eating for your skin because we don't want to have to airbrush too much. And so then they would write what eating for your skin meant. They're like, you know, when women diet down or a lot of times they don't take care of their skin, you need this nutrient, this, this, this in order for you to look good for the makeup to go on, for your tan to look good. And I was like, well, of course it's like impacted by your gut, your like everything you're eating. So I also wanted this in a very easy deliverable package because guess what? You're busy, I'm busy. There's so much overwhelm out there. I just wanted something that I knew if you only did one thing for yourself a day and you did this that you would feel good, you would feel accomplished. And it would be this beautiful, I call them domino rituals, that if you do this one thing it says to you, it like tips the domino for the day that says, I take care of myself because I did this thing and I deserve it. And so that says so much to yourself and your psyche, like unconsciously that I am a person who takes care of herself, shows up for herself because I did this one ritual and that one baby ritual tips the domino for the day of you doing other good things for yourself, which then adds up day after day. And in a year you're like, wow, I'm a person who takes care of herself and you've got beautiful results on your skin, on your body, in your mind and all the things. So that is really like what Glossy is. And it's permission to say if I can do it with no education and this background that you can do it too. So I really love like slaying shame through the whole story for another time. That's really what it is for me. It's permission, permission, like self love, everything that we've talked about like in this product which for you, I know you shared with me, you're like, I was, if you were saying like, this has been the through line is like health and fitness and wellness and to actually specifically do that for female entrepreneurs, for people who are sometimes, yeah, you're putting your dreams first, are you putting like your bias and creating that domino? And it makes such a difference. Like, oh my gosh, having like your morning like that and you're like, okay, I just got all my nutrients, it just shifts things. And so I'm so excited for more people to like access it and to keep growing because there's really nothing like it. Thank you for starting it. That's just such a beautiful story of when it comes to you. And I think just a little tap for anybody listening that that's how it comes, you know, sometimes that's, you'll know, you feel it like that's the calling and to just say yes and go on this journey and I'm so happy to be, you know, in this, I feel like you're really at an inflection point with Glossy right now and to like be getting really great partners on board. And so I'm excited to share with my community and see, you know, where it goes. So exciting. I'm so excited. I'm really excited that we've gotten to have this conversation that you're excited about the product. I'm excited about your book. Just tell me three and four quick because we want to just leave them with a little, you know, they just got an appetizer today because this book is like a freaking buffet. It's gonna like, I, my brain felt so excited and like stimulated and like, I literally cannot wait for this book literally because if it's anything like the way that you're speaking, it's gonna be like decadent through the whole thing. So tell me three and four and then we're gonna talk about how to make sure that they get the book. Yeah, absolutely. Well, the three limits. So really the book starts and the premise is that we're all life artists, right? We are all co-creating our reality. We talked about the three planes, like our focus, our energy and our action. And so there are different art forms, just like there's contemporary music and there's electronic music. And so the form of life artistry I teach is the art of living brave. We have like four tools, main tools that coincide with the four limits because when you embrace the art of living brave, the limit does not exist. We exit the one plus one equals two world into one plus one equals one which does not exist. And those are you, it's the tool is a shame slayer circumstance. And the tool is the chill rocket ship relationships. And the tool is the Jedi and then rules. And the tool is the rock star. So that kind of takes you through all of that with story and with, it's just, it's to me, it's like this stuff matters to me so much. So I've been going through like every line, like I just spent the whole day on this chapter that I had already written. And I like, it's crazy. I did not know how much it would take because I'm a writer, I was a writer before I was a coach. And I just like, to me, it's like, I want this book to be something that I go back to. And like, listen, I study this stuff, like I need to hear and I just know that, like if I, if this were my last year on earth, that I'd be like, I want this, like this is what I need to be doing, everything, stop and this is it. So I'm so excited to get it out. Thanks, Raphie. Okay, where can we find it? Where can we get it? Cause I'll put it in the show notes. So what should we do right now? So right now there's a, there's a link on my website. So you can get it directly through us as a website. It's just ShoshanaRaven.com, but it's also on Amazon. So the limit does not exist, Shoshana Raven. See, I'll find it there. Amazing. Well, I'm so incredibly excited and I'm grateful for you. And we're going to pump this book out. And yes, I mean, we're going to have an event. We're going to have an event. I want to have you as a part of it. Yeah. It just happened when we launched the book. So look out, that'll be like a big free event and we'll do like a VIP for all the pre-sale buyers and stuff. So I can't wait to get you on board for that. I'm so excited and thanks for doing this work and being brave so we can, you know, have a piece of that in our life that's going to help propel us into everything that we are meant for too. So I'm so grateful for you. And I will put everything in the show notes below you guys. Go check it out. You can go grab the book. You can go follow her from there. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.

=== FILE: Nutrition, Gut Health & Beauty Hacks for High-Achieving Women with Jennifer Hanway Part 1 [tqCIj804nQU].txt ===

 what are some of the biggest mistakes that you see high performers making when it comes to their health? The biggest mistake people are making are underestimating how important it is. That's number one. You guys, this affects your attitude. This affects what you believe is possible because I get a lot of people who are like, I just don't believe I have the energy for that. Some of you listening don't even understand that you have a completely different personality. That is probably very powerful. It is such an underutilized tool in high performance. Jennifer, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you for having me. I'm excited to be here. Okay, I am so excited for this conversation because, number one, I like to consider myself a high achieving woman. Most of the time. But we're going to talk about nutrition, supplements, fitness and lifestyle, strategies for high achieving women. And when I was telling you about coming on the podcast because I'm very into all of this lifestyle, nutrition, working out, all the things, I recently kind of started talking about it a lot again and trying to remind people of what an important foundation it is. I can't remember if I shared this with you, but I started in health, fitness, nutrition, had my own gym, had an online membership, was really, really into it for a long time, stayed into it. But publicly, because I was getting into entrepreneurship and business, I completely detached my identity from it online because I went through a phase of feeling like I wanted to be taken more serious instead of just for body. And nutrition tips, which is great, but I wanted to be talking about business. And so what happened is I went so far away from it that now I'm at a place where I get a ton of questions of like, how do you have the energy to do it? Where do you get the ideas? How are you able to do all this? And I'm like, well, because I have such a solid foundation on fitness, nutrition, supplements. I have been on this journey for so long that I just realized, wait a minute, I need to start getting people back on the podcast, who not only talk about health, fitness, nutrition, but also what that does for your business and for your energy. So today I'm so excited to have you on. So not only talk about that, but I'm super into skin, I'm into beauty, I'm into all the things because you know, you hit 40 and you're like, what else can we do to preserve, enhance, do all the things because it is real. And by the way, you look incredible. Thank you very much. And I, I we're the same age. I think you're 44. We're literally the same age. Yes. Yes. I love that. Okay. So two 44 year old high achieving women talking to you about all of the things, beauty, skin, nutrition, health, supplement, high achieving and energy, which is so huge. So I'm so excited to hear you have. I just read your bio, but you have an incredible bio. You're a board certified nutrition professional, a certified personal trainer, a clinical weight management practitioner, beauty, nutrition expert. You're on the medical advisory board for L'Oreal Paris. And what's the other name? And Johnson and Johnson. Okay. Amazing. So partner with a bunch of dermatologists. You write for a ton of famous magazines or you have celebrity clients, Olympic athletes, A-list celebs. Yeah. Music stars, all of the things. So I was excited to be able to sit here with you because you are kind of the person who is helping these people that we look at and go, what in the world are they doing? You're helping them optimize their nutrition, beauty, skin, energy, all of the things. So I would love to hear a little bit about your personal journey because I haven't met a person who's this passionate about fitness, health, beauty, energy, all of the things who does not have their own personal journey to get into this place. Yeah. We, I think, so many practitioners, so many of us have. It's a deep seated thing. It's for us, but then it's also, we know what that transformation in our lives is like and then we want to give it to other people. So very long story short, because I mentioned with, you know, mid 40s, I am a ex-professional dancer, turned fitness instructor, turned nutritionist. So I was, I was doing all of the things. I was teaching the fitness classes. I was doing the dance performance, the dance teaching, the dance choreography. And I was a mess. I was physically a mess. I had really poor gut health. I'd had gut health issues really from my teens onwards through to when I was about 30. And that showed up in the digestive things, obviously, but also anxiety, depression, all of the things. I was not healthy weight when I was a teenager. I was a very unhealthy vegetarian. Not the vegetarian diets were unhealthy. I just didn't know how to do it myself. Right. Living in London, where he's a dance teacher, teaching fitness, all of the things. And my digestive system just said, hang on. Nope, I've had enough. This is it. So I was hospitalized, morphine drip. The whole, like my digestive system just stopped working. And how did you know that? Like what happened? Oh, I won't go into too many details. Yeah. Everything stopped working. Wow. And solids were coming out both ends. Oh, yeah. Super fun. Not what you want. Scary. Scary. And not what you want. Living your best life in your late 20s and early 30s in London. Conventional medicine didn't hold a lot of answers for me. That was just, oh, it's IBS, which we know is a collection of symptoms, not really a diagnosis. I was offered anti-anxiety medication, all of the things. I was like, this is not the route for me. I am, you know, young. I want everything out of my life. Let me find some answers for myself now because the universe works in wonderful ways. I was also teaching at a bar studio at the time who had a holistic nutritionist. She gave me just a couple of tiny tips. I think it was like give up gluten, give up dairy and take a probiotic. Like nothing major, nothing, you know, hugely scientific. And that changed my life. And I was like, oh, I didn't realize how good I, I didn't realize how good I could feel. I think that's a big part of the journey is you don't realize how good you can feel until you feel good. So I was like, OK, well, selfishly, I want more for myself. And I know there's so many other young women out there not feeling their best, struggling with gut health, struggling with bloating, struggling with the anxiety and depression. So that's when I went back to take some certifications and then eventually I realized that certifications weren't enough. So then I went back to school to study to become a nutritionist and fast forward now 14 years. Yeah, brings me to where I am now, which is working with high achieving women, be that celebrities, be that CEOs and really teaching them that everything high to do everything high achieving your health and physical health, your mental health, your gut health, your emotional health, your strength, your energy. It's not just the foundations. It really is the key tool in your toolbox. Like we spend so we spend so much money on optimizing our teams, optimizing our AI, optimizing our routines, ordering like. There's so much optimization, but I think the thing that makes the biggest change is our physical and mental health. Oh, my goodness. When you're talking about depression and anxiety and how you felt like in your 20s, I think back to pretty much my especially my younger years, teens, 20s, even somewhat into my 30s, even when I sort of thought I started to understand nutrition, but I was lacking in so many things that you're still feeling so much of the mental emotional side of it. And I remember thinking growing up like, Oh, my God, I'm a depressed, anxious person and my whole family is too. Yeah. And my whole family was on medication. I hadn't started medication yet. I started at my 20s and I was just convinced that that is who I was. And it's not that some people don't need it. They absolutely do. But what ended up happening is when I started to understand nutrition, I was like, wait a minute, I'm actually a really happy person who doesn't have anxiety all the time. Yeah. Like, you know, I'm drinking a ton of coffee. I'm eating bad. Maybe I was drinking too much at the time. It just flares up. Like it makes your brain not your own. So much inflammation in your brain and in your body. So I, you know, whether you're listening to this and you're thinking that you need it or not, there's probably some things that are going to get dialed in through this that you don't even understand are going to open up whether it's ideas or making you just feel so much better or unlocking energy like these. I just had a dinner with a bunch of high performing women. And let me tell you, they have their shit dialed in like, like physical wise. Actually, like far more than I even have. And I was like, whoa, OK, maybe that's why you're making that much more money than me right now. And it's crazy. So that's why I love this conversation. It's very timely. So when a new client comes to you, let's just talk about where do you start when a new client comes to you? Yeah. So I always say test, don't guess. So this is I think we should talk about this more in health and wellness in general, but especially for high achievers, we are probably spending the time, the money, the energy, we're buying the groceries, we're getting the organic food, we're taking all of the supplements. But is that optimized for us? So I love to have as much data as I can on somebody. So that's going to be their lab work. That might be functional testing, things like saliva and urine, hair tests. That might be looking at a food diary and analyzing that to see where certain deficiencies are. So as much information as possible on that person, because you can then tailor everything, every bite that they're taking, every workout that they do, every stress relieving supplement they take, we can tailor it to their biology. So that's number one. So they're getting that data. Number two is learning as much as I can about that client. So a lot of my clients, they travel, their CEOs, their celebrities, they are in hotels or they're on the road or they have to show up to red carpet events, and I have to make my recommendations fit into their lifestyle. Because I could give you the perfect food, supplement, fitness, lifestyle protocol, if you're not going to do it, it's not going to work. And I don't want a client of mine to see the recommendations that I give them and they're just going to be like, no, that's not going to work for me. I'm not going to do it. So I have to fit in with their lifestyle. I have to know if they're cooking, if their chef is cooking, do they eat out a lot with clients? What are their non-negotiables? I had really fun client. I can't name names. They've done an incredible turn around with their health, but she was on the road a lot, she was still at school, she was amazing, and she wanted to clear up her skin. She's on camera a lot, but she wouldn't give up her fried chicken. So I had to find some way of like, I'm like, OK, we have the fried chicken, but let's have the green juice as well. Here's, you know, every hotel that you're staying, let me know the name of every hotel you're staying in, and I will find a juice bar that's near you. And we'll get them to make your juice menu, your juice recipe. So really, it has to fit in with their lifestyle as well. And then really, once we've kind of got those pieces of the puzzle, the data there, then 99 percent of the time I'm working on gut health. So that is going to be the first thing. And sometimes I have to get to there in a roundabout way. So they might be like, oh, no, I only want to work on my energy. Or I only want to work on losing 10 pounds. And I'm like, OK, great. And I kind of give them a little bit of what they need. But then we're going to loop back to looking at the gut health as well, because that really is the foundation of everything. And that doesn't have to be you're cutting out all of your favorite foods and giving up alcohol. It might just be some simple things like, OK, we're going to add in some bone broth here, let's add in some collagen in your shake, let's add in a probiotic that we can take on a daily basis. And so slowly, we're kind of getting them to the gut health piece of the puzzle. So really data, lifestyle and then getting in that little bit of gut health to start them off. OK, so just for people who maybe don't understand, because gut health was like such a hot word. It's trendy. It was very trendy. It's still trendy. But when you say, let's focus on your gut health, like, why? What does that mean? Just for anyone who has not started to understand what gut health does for people. Yeah. And I think you make a really good point now of it was trendy. And sometimes when something's trendy, we lose the science behind it. So your gut health is not drinking celery juice every day. Your gut health is not going on crazy fast or taking a million one supplements. What we're really thinking about is you are you aren't what you eat. You are what you absorb. So even if you're having the most perfect diet, if you're not absorbing it at the gut level, we're not getting all those nutrients. So we're really talking about gut health, we're talking about two things. Intestinal permeability or the integrity of your cellular lining and the health of your microbiome and those two things go hand in hand. So are the right things going in and the wrong things staying out? And are we really looking after that microbiome, that population of all of those wonderful bacteria in there? And we use the words good and bad. That's a little bit simplified, but really do we have more good bacteria than bad bacteria and is that bacteria diverse? And that's really what we're talking about when we're talking about gut health. So it's are we absorbing the nutrients from our food? But we also have to think about that nervous system that's in our gut. So a gut has its own nervous system. We have a nervous system in there. We make hormones in there. We detoxify hormones there. So that's one of the reasons why our gut health has such a huge impact on our mental health and our anxiety and our mood, because all of those neurotransmitters and that constant communication between your gut and your brain. OK, explain that a little bit deeper because they say, you know, gut affects your brain, your mood, your energy, your skin, and especially, you know, with my company that I have Glossy just talking about the skin gut connection, too, can you explain just the impact of all of that? Yeah, so really you think of your gut as that is your processing plant, your factory, your detoxifying plant. It is the gateway to the health for the rest of your body. So, for example, if we have what we call leaky gut or impaired intestinal permeability, we know that things are going into the bloodstream that shouldn't be there, and then our body is going to set off an inflammatory response. Now, that inflammatory response could be everything from joint pain to brain fog, to breakouts or redness in the skin. So really, what are we thinking about on that inflammatory level? What are we thinking about on the neurotransmitter level? So 70 to 80 percent of serotonin, that's our feel good, feel calm hormone, is made in the gut. Now, I really struggle with like anxiety is my flavor of mental health. I feel you. Yeah, you know, I think, you know, you have to limit the coffees, limit the true crime podcast, but anxiety, you know, if it's a flare up for me, I know that that's probably coming from somewhere or at least a good part of it is coming from somewhere in my digestion, because my body is not able to make those neurotransmitters that allow me to kind of feel calm and resilient. So that's a big part of it. And then hormone balance as well. Hormones are made and detoxified in the gut. So we see so much on social media about hormone balance. But unless you have good gut health, you're not going to be able to get optimal hormones. OK, so when people think about good gut health, because this is so interesting, if you're not able to make those chemicals, what are some of the main things that when clients come to you like low hanging fruit, you're like, oh, honey, you are blocking the ability to make serotonin because you're eating or drinking this or you're, you know, because clearly it sounds like for gut health, it's like what is going in? Or I mean, pretty much that's all of it. Yeah, what you're consuming and how to heal that gut. OK, so I want to know what's the low hanging fruit that you're always like for anyone, it doesn't matter who you are, let's get this out. Yeah. And then what are some non-negotiables for getting it in? No one loves this answer, but the two non-negotiables for taking out sugar and alcohol. So with alcohol, we are causing inflammation in the body. We are killing off some of that good gut bacteria. We are then making our livers work even harder. I mean, you know, we can't separate gut health from liver health. That might be in whole other conversations. So eliminating, reducing alcohol, that's always going to be a big one. And then sugar. Sugar is going to mess up that microbiome. It's going to feed those bad bacteria. It's going to mean that the good bacteria don't have a chance to flourish. It's going to cause bloating. It's going to affect our brain. It's going to cause brain fog, joint pain, messing up our metabolism. And then we saw then all of the things. So people don't like to hear it, but sugar and alcohol are probably going to be those things where I'm going to say, let's reduce or ideally eliminate. Yeah, we hate that answer, but we also love that answer because it is clear. Like there is a clear difference when I am like not drinking as much or not eating as much sugar, but let me let me let's get clear on sugar because I think there's this whole world where I was doing fitness competitions where they were like, OK, no bananas, no strawberries, no blueberries. It was like so intense that it it caused a major binge cycle in my life. Yeah, I was like not getting any sugar, which actually made me feel awful. So even if it looked like I was eating healthy to other people, vegetables, lean meats, things like that, I was miserable. Yeah. So can we kind of talk about a balance of what that looks like for sugar? Yes. And I was listening to a podcast this morning. Someone was talking about a balanced breakfast and making a smoothie. And then they said, you know, oh, but don't put the don't put any fruit in there because there's too much sugar. And I'm literally like banging my head against a wall because this is where this misinformation comes in. And there's a huge difference of how our body processes the sugar in skittles or M&Ms versus how we process the sugar, the fructose in fruit. So we've got to think about what it comes wrapped in. So it's a naturally occurring sugar and it comes wrapped in fiber. So it's much, much slower to get into our bloodstream. So we don't get that blood sugar spike. And then it comes with all of those wonderful anti-oxidants, polyphenols, all of those things that are so good for us that we don't have enough of in our American diet. So please don't be scared of the banana, the berries, the strawberries. These are things that our bodies needs. And they're wonderful for so many aspects of our health as well. OK, so I want to throw a curveball too. So Blue Zone chats because Blue Zones are places in the world where people live like past 100 and there's a large collection of them. So they go and study these places in the world of like, OK, these people are like thriving. Now, a few of those Blue Zones, a lot of them drink alcohol every single day. Yeah. So let's talk about kind of like off setting what that looks like for people who are maybe like, OK, well, I'm not going to stop drinking my wine. And, you know, I am going to have my pasta. So give me a little bit of info around what you think that is and what that looks like. So we have to think about and this is one of the challenging things with nutrition science and health science is what else are all of those other variable factors in the Blue Zone? So those people living to 100 are probably not stressing out that their latest Instagram posts and get a lot of likes. Yeah, they're probably not staying up all night watching zombie apocalypse dramas. They're probably not stressing out about the things that we stress out about all of the time. They're probably not eating as much processed food as we are. So there's lots of other variable factors in there that means that their bodies can probably handle a little bit of red wine every day. You know, now red wine, yes, it has resveratrol, it has antioxidants, has all of those things. But they're probably not putting their livers under as much pressure as we do with all of the processed foods and environmental toxins. And there are so many other parts of Blue Zone living, being in community, being outside, fitness, circadian rhythms that I think to make that argument, we're losing a lot of the other variables. But if we do want to drink alcohol, so I gave up drinking about two and a half years ago and I am always very honest. It's still really hard and I still miss a great glass of red wine and a glass of champagne, not gonna lie, I think I always will. But for me, the health benefits outweigh the negative effects. But if we do want to drink, we want to think low sugar, we want to think organic. We want to think what else can we do whilst we're drinking? So for most people, I'd say two to three drinks a week at the most. And if you can put those two days in a row, so like a Friday and a Saturday, or a Saturday and a Sunday, you're like done, I can do it. She's like, she's telling me to drink two days in a row. Jenny, I can do that. That is how we do it, though. Like if we're going to have a cocktail, we have a cocktail on Friday, we have a cocktail on Saturday and we try our best to limit it to one and be done for the week. So and then as long as you're having, you know, you having, I say, have water as your wingman. So we have water as our wingman, we have glows here's our wingman. We want to make sure that we're diluting that as much as we can, giving our liver a chance. And then what else are we having in there? You know, it's not just alcohol that our liver has to detoxify. It's all of the junk from processed foods. So if we're eating a pretty clean diet and having a cocktail once or twice a week, then we're not putting that much pressure on our liver. So really choose your alcohol drinks wisely. You know, we don't want the, you know, same as you, you know, I grew up drinking in the nineties and the noughties and it was the sugary alcohol pops and, you know, awful, awful things. So Red Bull vodka, like Long Island ice teas. More. It's horrible. Like they, and we would drink them because they're sweet and they taste nice. Yeah. All of those things. So let's not drink those. Blue Lagoon. Like I don't even know what that was. The color. Sending a fishbowl. I don't know. Yeah. And then you see it come up the next day. Exactly. It's certainly out of anything out of a fishbowl. Absolutely. Just, just, just know. But yeah, good organic red wine, one really nice cocktail that you're really going to enjoy that you're going to savor. And then the next day, lots of water, lots of fiber. Just give you a little bit of a helping hand and then we, so we can include it in that. Don't drink on an empty stomach. Make sure you're having some protein, some fiber, some healthy fats so we don't get that crazy sugar craving. Try and drink a little bit earlier in the day. So we have time to metabolize it so it's not affecting our sleep. So there are ways of making it healthier. I knew I was onto something. There you go. Earlier, earlier cocktails. Then my day is great. I don't even notice I had one now to everyone just because I know some people can actually be so put off by like, well, I'm not going to be able to do all of the things. So I love that we're having this conversation and it is for like, there's something different for everyone. I have friends who absolutely will not drink because they're so affected by it. And then friends who are like, if I can't drink, like I'd rather just, you know, like I'm good, like I want to make sure I can do that. So for me, some things that have really changed because I used to just have such a, I mean, honestly, like not a great relationship with alcohol because it was like, it was with food as well. It was like all or nothing. So I was like all in or all out. And I had to start looking at it like, okay, what I'm going to do is if I have a cocktail, I'm not going to have a dessert. Like I'm truly going to view that cocktail. It's like, this is my dessert. This is what I'm going to get to enjoy. This is like the little sugary portion I'm going to have for the evening. And then it made me slow down, savor, be a lot more present. My husband and I also try to create rituals around our cocktail where like instead of just drinking mindlessly, it'll be like, you know, we're at dinner. It'll be, okay, what were the wins of the week? Let's like have our cocktail and really talk about like the wins and enjoy and enjoy this time. Then when the food comes, we're done. Yeah. You know, and then maybe we get sparkling water or non-alcoholic beer or something for the rest of the meal. So this has been, I'm sharing this because this has been such a journey of like trying to learn how to trade joys in your life. Cause essentially at the end of the day, that's kind of what we're doing. Yeah. We're learning how to replace these joys that feel like without them, we don't know who we are. Like their, their identities. Sugar and desserts are an identity. Cocktails are an identity. Like it is a hard joy cycle to break to just be like, my God, now what do I do? What do I fill these things that I looked all, you know, we have forward to. So for you, what's something that helped you replace that? Like when you quit? Yeah. And it's really interesting that identity piece because that was huge for me as well. So growing up, the drinking culture in the UK is different to here. So we drink a lot earlier and drinking was my way of connecting with my girlfriends. So I have great girlfriends who we've all been friends since we were 12. So very, very long relationships. And then as I was growing up in my tea, you know, as a teens and my twenties and in my thirties, somehow managed to always live within like 10 minutes of my best friend, wherever we were. Wow. So our Friday nights would be Friday nights we would drink. We used to meet for dinner on a Friday night, dinner and wine. And then we'd have cheese and wine afterwards. And then we kind of skip the dinner part because we love the cheese and the wine. So that would always be when I moved to the US and I miss my friends. I would find myself drinking on a Friday night because I was like, oh, this still connects me back to my friends back home. Yeah. So even though I wasn't doing it with them, it was still like, oh, this is still a little bit of a nostalgia, a little joy. Yeah, exactly. I felt connected to them through it. And then, you know, I think we probably all drank a little bit too much during the pandemic and coping mechanisms and fine, we needed to do what we had to do. But for me, I was preparing for a surgery and then recovering for a surgery. And I wanted to do everything I could to be optimized for that surgery. So it's like, okay, I'm going to give alcohol a little break. So I had the surgery in November and then I didn't drink until Christmas Eve. Now Christmas Eve, we do a Zoom call with all of my friends. So Christmas Eve in the UK is lunchtime in, you know, on the East Coast. So I swear I had like half a glass of prosecco, like nothing at all. And a couple of hours afterwards, I felt terrible. I was like, I have a hangover already, but I knew I couldn't go cold turkey. So again, it was that ritual piece of the puzzle. So for me, Friday, four o'clock, kind of, I would down tools and that's when I would have a drink. So I had to replace that with, I did a non-alcoholic gin and tonic to start with. And so that would be like my little ritual. Okay, this is it. I can cut, like I can feel the stress leaving my body. And then that changed to a herbal tea or something similar. And now I don't even think about it, but I had to do that stair step to get to where I am now. And I think that can be a really great way for, you know, we're talking about optimization and, yeah, for optimization, we absolutely want to do the pinnacle of what's best, but we have to get there first. So maybe for someone that is they don't want to give up sodas. Okay, so we're going to go and do a La Croix or we're going to do some sparkling water with some fruit juice. I'm not going to make you give that up. Or maybe it's even just you go from full fat Coke to Diet Coke to start with. Then we go down another level. So I think the identity piece is a really big piece of that. And then you mentioned something about what I call the either or method. So no, we don't have to give up every glass of wine, every dessert, every fries, every bread basket, but it's finding that either or. So what's the thing that feels the best to you? Is that another cocktail or is that dessert? Is that the bread basket or is that fries? And I think that way we can still feel like we're having a treat, but not feel terrible the next day. And that's something I use a lot if people are traveling or traveling for business, is that they don't want to be that person. But if they have a cocktail or they're sharing fries with the table, then they're still getting a little bit of something, but they're still going to be able to form the next day. Mm hmm. What little things like that have been huge for me. Like what feels really indulgent for me is with girlfriends instead of going out all night long, it'll be like, you know what, let's actually meet for like a later lunch. So we have one glass of wine. You don't really want to. A lot of times I don't want to drink a ton of. If I know I have to like still walk my dog or go home in the evening. You know, so it'll be like a glass of rosé truffle fries. And maybe we order a salad as well. You know, and it's like that feels so indulgent and so nurturing to me. Actually, that it's like, whoa, this is so different than what I used to do. Like huge dinner, bread, basket appetizers, cocktails, like the whole thing. And now it still feels that same way, but completely different. Like I can move on from that. Yes, still feel great. Yeah, felt very indulgent and fun and like something that I look forward to. So all right, let's talk a little bit about, you know, because so many people are wearing blood glucose, close monitors and like they're doing all the things for blood sugar balance. So I kind of want to learn about blood sugar balance, protein intake. You talk about, let's see, nutrient density. Let's talk about that framework that you have. So really, I see blood sugar balance and protein optimization kind of going hand in hand, so we can't have good blood sugar balance without protein. So really what we're taking out, I call it the five to full and the five to fail framework. So the five to fail are the things that we're going to be taking out on an everyday basis. So it's going to be our sugar, it's going to be our refined carbohydrates, it's going to be our inflammatory fats, it's going to be our alcohol. And then the five to full. So if we're thinking about blood sugar balance, then number one, we're going to be thinking protein, we're going to be thinking fiber, we're going to be thinking healthy fats.  polyphenols, so lots of things have their moment in the spotlight, so proteins having a moment in the spotlight, fibres having a moment in the spotlight, mark my words, next year, polyphenols will be the go-to word, and then probiotics as well. So I'm really making sure that we've got our blood sugar balance, we're not having that sugar in there to spike things, to get those dips and spikes, to get that hangry feeling, we're having protein for, you know, it's funny, we were talking about protein in the functional medicine world 15, 20 years ago, and just wishing it would have its moment, and now it's having its moment, and unfortunately when anything has a moment, there is always a backlash to it, but protein really, if you've got that protein in there, that's going to be the foundation of your blood sugar balance, it's almost satiating nutrient, it turns on our satiety hormones, it turns off our hunger hormones, and just keeps us feeling nice and full, satiated, level, calm, grounded, I was more grounded when I've got more protein, now that's apart from its wonderful benefits for our metabolism, for our lean muscle mass, for our skin, for our brain health, for all of those things, but blood sugar balance, really we want to be taking out those ultra processed foods, making sure that we've got enough protein in there, lots of fruits and vegetables, people always say to me, should I take a fiber supplement, I'm like, let's hit our eight to nine servings of fruits and veggies a day, then we can add a fiber supplement, we're having eight to nine servings of fruits and veggies, let's make sure there's lots of brightly colors in there, because then we're going to get those polyphenols in there, and then probiotic foods, maybe not at every meal, but certainly at least once a day, and that's a really, really great framework. Once we get to, now that's going to be a nutrient dense diet anyway, now once we get to that part, then we can get into the fun part, which is really optimizing for that person, or for an event, or for a big conference, or a keynote, or then it's like once we've got this really good foundation, we've got blood sugar balance, we've got our protein going in there, we've got nutrient dense foods, then we can get to the fun part, which is where I come in, which is what is that smoothie that we can give you before you have to do a keynote, so you hit all of your marks, what is that soup that we can give you that is full of bone broth and things are going to make your skin glowing before you have a photo shoot, so that's really where I come in, that's where I think it's really fun, because we can really optimize every single meal that you're eating for whatever you've got coming up in your schedule. I can imagine for people who get to that place, which we'll talk about, you're like, okay, well, now I look this good and feel this good, how do I do this every day? Yeah. Okay, so let's go back a little bit to why poly... My polyphenols. Phenols, yeah. Phenols, yeah. Okay, so polyphenols are plant compounds that give plants that richly color, so we have polyphenols in red wine, we have polyphenols in coffee and dark chocolate, those are two of my favorite sources, in our pianos. Oh, great, I'm getting them, perfect. We have them in berries, we have them in red cabbage, so they are their antioxidants, they're polyphenols, they are wonderful for our brain health, they're wonderful for our skin health, they also help to produce GLP-1 hormone, so again, GLP-1 is a whole other conversation, so what a lot of people don't understand is that GLP-1 is a hormone that we make naturally. Naturally. And polyphenols are one of the food compounds that we can eat more of to help us make more GLP-1. So we're seeing a lot of supplements these days rebrand as natural GLP-1 enhancers, and one of the things that they're going to have in there is polyphenol derived ingredients. So polyphenols, I really think they're going to have their moment in the sun, but really we just want to think about to get those into our diet, how many different plant-based foods can we have of different colors? And again, organic coffee, dark chocolate, berries, extra virgin olive oil, matcha green tea, you know, just having a couple of servings of those a day, which we probably are anyway, but just being a little bit more deliberate about it, can be a huge, huge difference, especially for skin health, so I see a huge amount for skin health, and then also for our gut health as well, because they helped feed our good bacteria. So protein, obviously protein is having a moment. I have a really great friend who I feel like helped make protein a moment, Dr. Gabrielle Lyon, and I'm just like, I don't know, you made protein a star, like it already was starting and she just like amplified it, which I love. But for people who, thankfully in the fitness world, I'd gotten so used to like working in protein in my diet, but I know it's a huge struggle for people. Like, is there certain proteins that people should avoid? How do you feel about, you know, whey protein, vegan protein? I'd love to hear that. Yeah, so it's a very interesting conversation and a lot of the time with social media noise, there's, you know, a black and a white and the answer is usually somewhere in a gray area, but that's always hard to communicate through social media and it's, people don't want to hear a gray area. They wouldn't hear, oh, I'm right. Oh, that person's wrong. People also want to create, I know we'll talk about this throughout the podcast that we're doing together. You guys were doing a couple podcasts together, but also people want to be controversial online so that they get comments and views. So like they may even know while they're talking about it that there is, the answer is found in the gray, but they need to be polarizing. 100%. And I had a crazy, crazy situation the other day where I just, I commented on someone in a very famous functional medicine doctor commented on the post and so much vitriol came at me from both sides of it. And so many did, like I looked away from my phone and there was 10 different comments. And I was like, you realize that this is the whole point of what this post is about is that we want to create more engagement, boost engagement, boost engagement. So that's the crazy part. But going back to protein, yes, not all proteins are created equal. And Dr. Gabrielle Lyon, she's a mutual friend of ours. I learned a lot from her and her mentor, Dr. Donald Lehmann. If you ever want to know anything about protein science, here's the go-to for it. But then not all proteins are created equal. So plant proteins versus animal proteins, our animal proteins have what, let's say we talk about protein as if it was all one thing. Different proteins, different types of proteins have different amino acids, different amino acids do different things in the body. So we should be talking about amino acids, not about protein as if it were all one thing. Different amino acids do different things in the body, just like different vitamins and minerals do different things in the body, just like different strains of probiotics do different things in the body. So we need to kind of take a step back and look at amino acids rather than proteins. Now, our animal proteins have a lot of different amino acids compared to our plant proteins or in different amounts. One of the big differences is that animal protein has something called leucine in it. Now, leucine is the amino acid that turns on our switch to make lean muscle mass. So this is one of the reasons why it can be harder to make or to build lean muscle mass on a vegan or vegetarian diet. It's not impossible, but it just takes a little bit more thought. So really, if someone is an omnivore, so they eat everything, then we should be prioritizing animal protein in there. We can up that with some of our plant proteins. I'm not anti plant proteins. We do find that some of the rice, the pea, those proteins can be a little bit more pro inflammatory and then not as easily absorbed by the body as something like a whey or even a grass fed beef protein. Now, a lot of people come to me and they say, I have real issues with brain protein. I'm not great with dairy. That's a whole other piece of the puzzle because really, if you're not being able to digest dairy, we need to look at gut health first. So we have to take a step back because we want you to be able to have dairy because dairy has some really, really great benefits to it. But if they can't do a whey protein, I might do a grass fed beef protein, which is exactly as it sounds. It's like a grass fed steak, but made into a whey protein. Everyone's like, does it taste like beef? I'm like, no, it tastes like with a milkshake. So I think if you are eating everything, if you're an omnivore prioritizing your animal proteins, it's just going to make it a little bit easier for you to get those amino acids that are going to help you build that lean muscle mass. Okay. So I've heard recently, because so many people, aminos were really hot to take for a long time. And then people are like, these don't do anything. Yes. Tell me, tell me what's they do things. So we have to think about them. Again, it's never an all or nothing. So if I'm eating a really low protein diet, but taking an amino acid supplement is that optimal? Absolutely not. But they are going to help you get those amino acids, especially if you're on a vegan or vegetarian diet, or you know, you're running around, maybe you're working out fast. They are going to give you those what we call branch chain amino acids, which can help you spark that lean muscle mass. So do we need to be taking those while eating protein? Like if you're not eating protein, does it really work or not? Good question. So no, it's still going to work if you're not eating protein. Okay. So where I typically use amino acids is if someone really wants to put on lean muscle mass. So we know that women over 40 are ability to make lean muscle mass declines, our muscle masses declining. Also as our estrogen levels are coming down, it's harder for our body to make that lean muscle mass. So women over 40 might want to think about putting an amino acid supplement in there. I don't like my women to train fasted. We really restress from the body. And if we're trying if our goals to put on lean muscle mass, but we're going in there in a depleted state, that's not always a good option. So at any age, at any age, at any age, but especially over 40. So a lot of my women are training first thing in the morning, and they're going to a Barry's boot camp or something crazy. And they're going fasted. And they're wondering why they feel depleted and exhausted and starving afterwards. But they're like, well, I'm not going to drink a smoothie or eat some eggs before I go work out. So I'm like, okay, let me take your water bottle. In that water bottle, we're going to do our amino acids. We're going to do our creatine. We're going to do our glossy. And then we might do some collagen in there as well. So we're getting those amino acids already broken down so they're easy for the body to digest. So it's not going to you're not going to feel sick or heavy when you're doing your workout. But you're giving your body the raw materials it needs to go, Oh, I know what you want me to do. You want me to put on lean muscle mass here. And using any age, like for fasting for working out, but then on other days, I'm so curious what you think of like fasted, like fasted mornings like, you know, up until a certain time. It's going to be it depends. Okay. So anytime someone asks me a question like that, my answer is always going to be it depends. It depends on your goals. It depends on your health status. And it depends on on who you are and what your day has. I honestly believe that breakfast is the most important meal of the day. Now, a lot of women are fasting in the morning and they're missing that window to make lean muscle mass. So we fast maybe 12 hours overnight when we wake up, our body is primed to make that lean muscle. So we want to get in about 30 grams of protein, really within about an hour of waking up because that's the time that our body is optimized for lean muscle synthesis. So for most people, I'm going to say we want to have breakfast. Now, if we're fasting, the best time to fast is actually have an early bird special. I love a five five o'clock dinner, five 30 dinner, give yourself at least 12 hours overnight. Everybody should be doing 12 hours overnight. But then you can push maybe 14 hours, you know, 13 to 14 hours. And then when you wake up, have that protein rich breakfast within an hour of waking up, that's going to do your body so much better than eating at 10 o'clock at night and then skipping breakfast in the morning. So I want to know about now we're on the, you know, the topic of protein and making sure we're eating and all of the things does protein impact like beauty, face, skin, tell me about it because I'm like, okay, if you're losing muscle on your body, we're losing probably muscle in our face too, even though I know we're losing fat in volume, are we losing muscle? Yes, yeah, we're absolutely losing muscle. So part of the work that I do with L'Oreal is how are we, and a lot of what I'm talking about these days, and actually there's a book in the works about this, but how do we prevent the muscle loss, volume loss, fat loss, collagen loss, elastin loss from our face when we have weight loss. Now we see this with not just GRPs, but also with rapid weight loss diets, and we see it with aging as well. So collagen and elastin, those are proteins in the skin, so again, they're made of amino acids. So if we're not eating a high protein diet, we're not going to be giving our skin what it needs to build this elastin and build this collagen, which is what keeps our face, face youthful and lifted and glowing. So yes, protein intake in the diet is so important for our skin health because it really is those building blocks of feeling lifted and young and youthful. All right, so what are some of the biggest mistakes that you see high performers making when it comes to their health? I know we just talked about diet, and we'll probably talk a lot more about that. But what are some of the big mistakes you see for high performers? Yeah, I think the biggest one is probably not understanding what a huge tool it can be for high performance. You know, I think high performers, we are so keen to find the best AI tool. We're so keen to optimize our funnels. We're so keen to, you know, all of these things, find the best team members. But we're missing the biggest piece of the puzzle, which is our physical and mental health. So I think the biggest mistake people are making are underestimating how important it is. That's number one. Number two is following generalized advice. Now, generalized advice will get you so far. So generalized advice, eat more protein, fantastic, eat more vegetables, fantastic, go to the gym, great. And you do those things for a certain amount of time, and you're like, okay, I've got somewhere, but I'm not seeing optimal results. And this is where following precision protocols, looking at your data. So really, the two things that we're looking at is, where are you starting from? So do you have issues, you know, if you're tired and sluggish, do we need to look at your thyroid function? Do we need to make sure that you're having more iron in your diet? If you're taking an iron supplement, is it the right type of iron supplement? Is your gut health good enough for you to be able to absorb the iron? So really getting detailed can mean such a huge difference for how you show up, how you stand on a stage, how you get through a long travel day. So the following the generalized advice will get someone, a same with business, the same with anything, generalized will only get you so far, it's a great foundation. But there's so much more to be had, which is where I get excited, because then we can get down to the nitty-gritty. I cannot stress enough how important I feel that this is because I think so many people in business, we get in these, you know, we have our masterminds, we have an elite mastermind, and then we have like a mid tier mastermind. So people who are just starting in, I can literally spot people who I know have like should be working on this far more than they should be working on their business, because there is a like you guys, this affects your attitude. This affects what you believe is possible, because I get a lot of people who are like, I just don't have the energy, I just don't believe I have the energy for that. I'm not a good sleeper, so I don't know how much energy I'm going to have for this business. I'm not like that the endless things that I hear that I believe, if they really put more focus on their health, their food, their sleep, who they're around, what they're thinking, I know we're going to talk a little bit about that too, like they are probably not probably, I believe they're a totally different person. Yeah, like some of you listening don't even understand that you have a completely different personality that is probably very powerful, very positive, maybe even not as introverted as you thought. Yeah, maybe you're like even more excited to connect with people and get out there and you feel more courage, like this can all be related to how you feel in certain situations. If you go into a social situation, feeling tired, lethargic, little foggy, maybe not quick with your thinking, like that's going to really affect how you show up majorly, and how confident you feel in your skin is a very different ballgame when we start to tweak those things. 100% and it's even, it gives you more hours in the day. It does. If you have better energy, if you're not bloated, if you don't have joint pain, if you don't have that brain fog, if you've got more energy, if you've got more cognitive function, you can get way more done in an hour than trying to slog through three hours of something when you might not have slept well the night before, you've had a quick grab, you've grabbed your breakfast from Panera or Starbucks. Like I do think it is such an under utilized tool in high performance. That's why when you really look at these high performing athletes, like they won't, they won't mess with their protocol during, especially like during the season. They just will not mess with it because they know that they need every ounce of edge that they can get if they want to win against other people who are doing the same types of methods.

=== FILE: One Morning Move That Changes Everything (My Bestie Lindsey of Powerhouse Women Interviews ME) [ur86Joje3eo].txt ===

 I kind of avoided certain things like, TikTok is hard, I'll just get someone else for it. If you put all your power in someone else's hands, you're gonna lose your money. And we have. Then I have. If you wanna look good, you have to also eat for your skin. The gut impacts your skin in a much bigger way than we've ever learned. Magnesium relaxes your gut, that's why you might have a great... We can talk about poop. When a woman walks in and she's glowing, it's because she took a good poop. Getting organized, getting some routines dialed in to support what your business needs for you right now. What does that look like? It's gonna sound really basic, but it changed my life. Is... ["I Love You, Love You, Love You"] I love any opportunity to sit down with one of my favorite people on the planet, my bestie, Lori Harder. And I'm so excited to have you back. We're doing this like, this feels so formal because usually we're just curled up around a kitchen table, like recording either a quickie episode for your show or just catching these in the moment, moments. That's very redundant. But we wanted to kind of update everybody because the last time we kind of sat down and did a proper interview style podcast like this, it was about a year ago that it aired because we just celebrated the one year launch anniversary of Glossy. I know I can't believe it. I literally can't believe it. And this does feel very formal for us, but you look great. Thanks. I think last time we had a nice chat, we were sharing a bed together. We both go to sleep. Oh my gosh, that's right. We like travel and we do all these podcast recordings. We bring our whole podcast team and we stayed in this Airbnb. And what was it? Was it like that one of the beds was really uncomfortable or you just didn't want to sleep? I think we wanted to just like talk all night. It also just felt weird to, it was a totally different floor you guys. It was a little scary to sleep a whole floor separately. We had a slumber party. It was really great. But here we are a year after Glossy launched and so much to catch everybody up on. And also I wanted to kind of use this also as an opportunity to talk a little bit about one of the most common questions I get, I don't know if you get this on your podcast too, which is people are so curious just about the topic of routines. And when I think about like the person who has inspired me in terms of like the most routine, like sticks to it person that I know, it really is you. Your wellness routines, even routines around our businesses that have really supported us in this season. So we're going to dive into so much in this conversation, but I just want to start with like, as you reflect back, we did this, got to do this at your house a couple of weeks ago. And I just, we were sitting by this fire and we have this tradition in our friendship where when you celebrate a birthday, we sit at dinner and we have, we like get to go around and we get to reflect. And so I asked you, I said, you know, let's kind of do that for Glossy. And we have this beautiful fireside chat, but let's do a podcast version of it because there's so much to celebrate. I mean, my God, anyone who was like behind the scenes, seeing the day to day of your dedication, your commitment to the pivot, everything that happened when you look back on the last year since launching, what's the thing you're most proud of yourself for? Oh God, this was so special when you asked me this. If anyone wonders why she's one of my best friends, I'm words of affirmation. And she's like, let's dig into it. Let's analyze it. Let's talk about like, yeah, this is all my favorite things. So when we got to chat about this, like it really, really moved me and made me, I think it just got me really present into everything that went down in that first year. And if we don't go back and do stuff like this, then you miss it. You really do because now I'm onto focusing onto what's next and trying to hit another goal. And so anybody listening, if you can sit down with your friend who's done something big last year or launched something scary, like this, that really like impacted me. I just want you to know that like that was really, really special to sit outside with you by the fire and just talk about that and let it all soak in. So I would say the thing that I'm most proud of is just who I've become in the process in the backbone and resilience that I've built. And I think that I thought I was good with rejection before. I think that I thought that I was good with getting through hard things, but I don't think I even understood it. And it's just an entirely different level when you're going into something, every time you go into something. So I don't want to discredit the past me or the past things that I've done because they all felt this big as well. I can just say that this truly is the biggest, most stretching thing that I have done yet. And to look back and really acknowledge just the grace that I had with myself and on the really, really hard days, never, of course quitting like runs through your head all the time, but it was never an option in my head. It was like, wouldn't that be nice if I could like move to an island for a while and never see people again? Like that absolutely has that fantasy. This is my mind multiple times, but it was never like I was going to book the ticket. It was just not, it wasn't an option for me. And the browser pulled up, but not the credit card wasn't out of the wallet yet. Totally, I was watching that Tom Hanks movie multiple times talking to a volleyball, but I can say that this last year I truly got grateful for what we're now really coining and calling the initiation. Like I believe there is a version of, or there's a point in your 40s, and I truly think it's your 40s. I've been talking to a lot of different women who you have an expectation that you'll not only arrive in your business, but your family life and your relationships and your friendships. And like the hard stuff should kind of be behind you because you hear about how much more confident you're going to be in your skin and how you kind of don't care anymore. And all of that is true, but I think there's also this invitation to the second half of your life that can be better than you even imagined. And the only way to get that second half of your life that is better than you could ever imagine is to go through some sort of horrible twisted initiation hell of a lot of things falling apart or a lot of things being ripped away that you did not expect. Whether it's friends or income sources or relationships or friends' relationships or your partnership with your partner is changing, your friendships are changing. There is so much change at that point because I really do believe it's almost like a second awakening of your life. Don't ask me what the first one is, but it feels like it is like you think you get the spiritual awakening kind of like in your, maybe your late 20s and 30s, and then in 40s, it's like a whole other level of, wait, I am not even done yet, nor do I know if I've even started, but do I feel ready to take on these challenges because I thought they were behind me and they feel even bigger? It's like you climbed Everest and you realized that there was something 10 times bigger than that. It's the realization of, Glossy for me was the realization that the Everest that I had already climbed fully is equipping me for what's next, but I needed an attitude adjustment about it. I needed to kind of sit back and be like, this is exactly what I want without this, I won't get to meet that other version of me even though it's been trial by fire through everything. Yeah, and when you say this is exactly what I want, what's the this? Just so people like really get this lesson. The ability to wake up and have a place to create, the ability to wake up and have a place to a vehicle to connect with other women, the ability to wake up and continue to create a platform that can help highlight other people, to continue to create a product and a platform that hopefully in the next five years, I will fully understand this business in and out so I can go back and reach down and help other women do this as well. This is a route that they wanna take because if I fast forward 10 years and I don't go through this and learn it and understand it and make it a success in some way, right? Like I'm not getting so attached to like, it has to be this number, it has to be exactly like this. Like if I can make this experience a big success and a huge learning experience where I can, of course I want it to win, of course I wanna sell the company, but I also need to be here right now understanding that I'm going to make this win in some capacity. If I don't make that win, I'm gonna have missed the purpose of my life and I really believe it's to go first in a lot of things and to reach back and help people kind of, not kind of like blow the glass roof off of what they think they have because that's where I have been so many times in my life. Like even before I started fitness, I didn't graduate, I didn't have a high school diploma. So I believed that my ceiling was these jobs that I could lie on the resume and say I had a high school diploma and here I am, the best freaking barista you'll ever have. And the best receptionist that this place will ever see. And I'm the best working at Ulta and stocking shelves and doing makeup. And that was the ceiling for me. I was like, I don't get to be better than this. So I have to be the best here. And I just remember feeling like, oh God, I think this is where I like, I think this is where I tap out. Like I don't think I can go any higher than this because you guys, I went back to try to get my IGED three times and never got it. I don't think I knew this part of the story. I could not teach myself math and you're learning, you're like trying to teach yourself and I didn't have a tutor and I just, I had really no one in my life because I had just left that religion and I wasn't able to go back and talk to anyone and in school was not an important thing to anyone in my family because it was all about the Bible. And so I just was like, this is where it ends for me. And I just remember that glass ceiling felt not just limiting, I felt suffocated. I was like, I don't know why I'm here then. Like if this is all that I'm gonna do, which by the way, I felt very purposeful in some of it, but I knew there was something bigger than that. I didn't know what it was, I couldn't have told you. It just felt big. I was like, I'm supposed to be, I don't even know, doing something bigger than this. And so there was that glass ceiling and busting through that and getting into fitness was like a whole other level. And then being in fitness and realizing, okay, I don't think that was my ceiling either. Where else do I go from here? And then getting into personal development and courses and events and then going, I think I really, like I have, not even I think, I have always loved products, always. I've been such a consumer. Like I used to just go to targets and like read boxes and read labels and I love, I love packaging. I was gonna say, anyway, it looks at either one of our pantries, knows what product, product girlies we are, but really like my pantry and also my bathroom cabinet. Totally. I just, I love the process of trying new things, finding something you love. And I think the thing that I love most about it is when you find something you love, sharing it with someone else going, no, no Lindsay, like I am about to change your life with the way your butt is gonna look in these leggings. Like you got a great ass. It's about to be like, like you're gonna stop traffic. And like that is, wanting. Yeah, wanting, like that is, that feeling of introducing someone to something awesome. And so for me, the product space was always so interesting because I was trying a lot of products and I was like, I just feel like there's room for improvement here. Like why aren't people making better products in this area or that area? And that started to become a thing for me. I was like, I think I want a product. And you know, in network marketing, that's what I did for 15 years. I sold products that I loved. And even within that space, I really just sold like two products that I was obsessed with. And I have to be obsessed with the products. But when I do it, I mean, it speaks for itself. When I do it, I sold $18 million worth of, not even sold $18 million worth, made $18 million from selling a product I loved. And so the whole idea of creating a product not only is about like, oh, cool, I love products. If I really learn this, I can teach other women how to do it. I can have modalities where they can become affiliates, which now more than ever is so important because network marketing companies are going away left and right. And I will tell you, I understand the impact of that money going away, that income for these women going away. And for so many of them, they're like, I don't know who I am if I can't represent something. I get that to the core because when you love something and you wanna share it and you get paid for it and you get this income, it's like, I think that is so powerful. And I really do believe the world is really headed towards affiliate marketing as well. So it's really cool to not only create a product, but create incomes not only for my employees, but also for affiliates and really start looking at that model in a big way. It's been really exciting. And literally to think, this has been all within the first official year since launching the product. And we'll make sure, maybe we can link the previous episode we did so they can catch up on even like the backstory that got you to the launch. Cause I don't wanna, we don't have to go back into that. We have a whole episode where we really share that story. So here's what I wanna know is, you know, you know, the powerhouse women audience, we share the same community. And these are women who are all building their dreams as well. If you were to distill down the three biggest business lessons, like very tangible, here's what I learned about business this year. Through the first year since launching Glossy. What would you say those top three lessons are like the tangible things that someone who's listening to this building her dreams, it's a reminder or it's like that next push to do that thing, to start asking more hard questions, to start thinking differently. What would you say are like the top three things that she has her own personality, Glossy, taught you this year that other people can learn from? I've used this one in all of my businesses, but get a mentor who's done it before, who understands, it doesn't have to be the exact industry, it really helps if it is, not a mentor, get multiple mentors. And I don't have like, I do now actually, I don't have like an exact mentor. I didn't, when I started like, this is my mentor for Glossy. I had access to a lot of people through the podcast or, you know, just through asking in the DMs, like would you ever be willing to answer this one question or whatever that looked like? I have probably asked, I don't even know, 200, 500 questions to different people and gotten rejected so many times, or not rejected, but like ghosted, like nobody's answered these questions. So I think working to find mentors and also ask a lot of questions of people who have been in that industry before, we know this with everything that we do. And it's like when you pivot, it is vital. They will save you so much time, so much money, like on big decisions, they'll help you with hiring, they'll help you with firing, they'll help you with decisions on what flavor you should come out with next. Like there are, there is data and research and reasons for everything, but then it goes into my point too, outside of mentors is the second thing is to really trust yourself in what you see, the vision that you see. Because as you get mentors and as you start looking at other companies, you're gonna start taking the vision that got you so excited and it accidentally starts morphing into like, well, oh my God, summer Fridays just launched this or they did this or their brand looks like this and it's really easy to just become a version of their dream rather than your initial dream. And it happens, that's natural, things can kind of morph with what's out and what's trending and what's cool. But at the same time, you always somehow wanna stay connected to your vision because you're gonna wonder why you lost your spark along this path multiple times. And it's gonna be because you got too infiltrated by what either mentors said or what other people are doing and that wasn't meant to be your path. And so I got really into comparison like mid, even mid year last year. And it threw me off of what I know is going to work for this company, but also going into number three, be so open to how quick things are changing. And I will say like, you need to know what's working for other companies. And even though something might be working for yours, you need multiple ways of marketing. Like that's why they're like, what marketing channels are you in? You need to figure out what's your main marketing channels? Like where can you be at that you're really going to like amplify and project that particular message? Where are your people at? But then don't cut off other channels because it's really important to learn other channels as well. Like you and I, Lindsay, with programs or events, those were huge channels for us. Like, okay, having an event, that's an amazing channel for you. But if you really want to amplify your voice, that's not enough at all, right? Because it kind of can either run out or that's what happens. You kind of like limit yourself on who you can reach. And so if you really have this vision of it reaching a lot of people, you have to force yourself to learn skill sets that you don't know right now. And it won't feel fun and it won't feel comfortable and it won't feel easy. And no, you're not the person who has to be the absolute expert in it. But I think I kind of avoided certain things like, oh, TikTok is hard. I'll just get someone else for it. If you put all your power in someone else's hands, you're going to lose your money. And we have. Then I have. Yeah. We know that lesson intimately. It's been so beautiful to watch. I just think there's nothing cooler than when you have the gift of having girlfriends who are like really in the trenches with you and to get to like really learn vicariously through their lessons, but also to get to witness who they're becoming in the process. And I can't wait to see what this next year holds. I know that one of the things that we shared, a group of us girls got together, we got to do a really cool trip to the One Hope Winery last fall. And we were kind of all sharing what our intention was for this next year. And one of the things that you were really going to dial into is your organization. And this kind of like brings us into this whole topic of routines that people are always so curious about. Like, I think, business idea, just hear me out. It's great. It's like only fans. Like I think, I don't know, but I think only fans is like, you just can watch people doing things. We should create that, but for business. Like I think people would actually love to just see behind the scenes, like what are the routines that kind of make our, to that shape our week, that shape our day. Again, just someone invest in this idea, please. So we can make this. But I want you to tell us, like what routines have really been supporting you? Let's talk about the business side first. And then, wellness really is such a huge part of both of our lives. I want to get to that in a moment, but you really took this on in a new way this year. Getting organized, getting some routines dialed in to support what your business needs for you right now. What does that look like? You know, it's going to sound really basic, but it changed my life is getting specific days for certain tasks. And I was such a task switcher. And this is by no means perfect yet, because having a podcast that puts a lot of episodes out, they can fall on other days still, but majority of my podcast days now are on a Thursday, but let's go to Monday. Mondays for me, I was actually the person that I, even though I love my business and I love my life, I hated Mondays. Like if you actually asked me, I wasn't sharing it because I'm not, you know, someone who's going to be airing negative stuff online. I save that for you. I'm just like, I'm going to dump negativity for an hour, are we good? Okay. Like, yep, I can hold more. What you got? Great. She goes somewhere else in her mind. I don't care if she glazes over, I'm just going to talk. So I hated Mondays and I hated them because I felt like I got shot out of a cannon. I was so unorganized. I had a to-do list that apparently I thought in my head was going to get all done on Monday. So this to-do list would have 25 to 50 things on it. I wish I was joking, I'm not. And if I didn't get that, you know, half of them done, I felt like a failure. Maybe I got two or three done. I just mentally wasn't setting myself up for success and physically in all of the things. So I would have, you know, calls on that Monday. I'd have a random podcast on that Monday. I would want to catch up Mondays, feel overwhelming, naturally because what happens is it's like, people kind of stop working on Friday and, you know, they cut out a little early and Monday they're like, oh shit, I have to catch up everything and all these thoughts that I wanted and everybody who thought of something they wanted to connect with you with last weekend towards then were like, I'll just wait till Monday. So it really is a crazy influx of all of these people feeling a certain way and they all need something and we all do this to each other on Monday. It's like the world just is all in this energy. And so for me, I was like, how can I stop feeling horrible on a Monday because it carries into your week. And then it also robs you from your weekend, like enjoying your weekend. So Monday now is a full like catch up admin day or any calls I want to do. So like right now I do a lot of fun partnership calls because I'm like, ooh, this is the energy of creation, like of creating something fun, you know, something moving forward that is gonna create, you know, a connection gonna create sales, like gonna just create something new for me that feels good. And so I'll do some partnership calls. I do a ton of admin work, a ton of catch up so that I feel good on a Monday. Yeah, which just even thinking about how that sets a totally different tone for the week and getting to that point where realizing how you were feeling previously at the start of your week and taking yourself through, I'm just like making this really practical for people. Like, have you resonate with what we're saying as far as like Monday's not feeling great, what would? Like what are the things that are gonna create that momentum? It's so simple like you said, but so powerful when you do it. And for a long time, so I did this thing on Monday that really supported me for a while and then I switched it because it didn't anymore. So that's the thing about routine is my routines actually change more frequently than I think people would think, but the core is there. So there's gonna always be movement. But in this season of my life, like a hardcore workout on a Monday like I used to do does not feel good for me. So on a Monday, it's like I'll try to get to the gym but a walk is also fine as well. Because if I'm really feeling anxious, like I really wanna catch up, there's a lot of admin for me to catch up on and get my team ready and supported. Like going to the gym feels really anxiety-ridden because it's like the drive to the gym, then you're at the gym for 45 minutes. It's like a two hour block that feels like, ooh, I just wanna get going. Like I wanna go get on that walk right away and get that done with. So I used to go to Orange Theory on Mondays because I was like, you know what, if I can kick my ass on a Monday and get through it, I'm setting myself up for success. Yes, and until that doesn't feel that way anymore. So it started to feel really stressful and add to my cortisol. Like it just has been spiking it. And I was like, you know what? Nope, we're gonna start Monday off like a nice walk, maybe a podcast, maybe I'm gonna answer a bunch of text messages on a walk, like whatever I want. And that's been a game changer for me. I feel that so deeply and it took me a while to shift my routines work-wise to the place that really served me and that's such permission to reevaluate them on a quarterly basis or even on a monthly basis because your business is gonna need different things for you in different seasons. Totally. So one of the things that I think I've had to really dial in this year is taking care of my wellbeing. I mean, I don't know if anyone else struggles with this, but in the busiest of seasons, those routines are often the ones that struggle. And it's one of the things that I realized I was trying to make my routine so complicated, especially now entering 40s, there's all this, the internet has a lot of advice for what we should be doing, how much protein we should be eating. And it's one of my favorite things about glossy. I went through this period where I know you had a similar experience where I just was like, let me just kind of wipe the slate clean. Like what are actually the things that are most important to me, which working on my skin, overall hydration, and just then all the things that are like more sleep and supporting my body with the things that are free, quite honestly. And I am an investor in glossy. I'm a close friend of yours. I was like team glossy all the way, but then I started using it every day. And when I tell you that little, it's almost like this little act of self love, starting my day every single day without fail, with a glass of room temperature water. Why? I don't know. The internet told me that's better. But starting it with a routine that number one, increases my hydration. Number two, I'm gonna have you get into like the actual brilliant ingredients for gut health, for skin health. And then not worrying about having this supplement cabinet full to the brim of things that I wasn't actually using, creating that simple daily routine that starts my day on a note that has me pour into myself and connect with what's actually important to me has been so powerful. So for anyone who maybe hasn't heard you speak about this, I don't think we went into this on the first episode, the brilliance in the formulation of what you guys created with glossy. Not only is it a beautiful product, it tastes amazing. It's so, like there's no formulation like this out there. It's so brilliant. Thank you so much for this because I created what I wish I existed and then I quickly also realized from surveying, I got to survey 5,000 women in the Boss Babe community. I think we surveyed some of your people. I feel like I surveyed so many different people's groups I can't remember, but I went to all of my friends and was like, hey, what do we want in this? Like if we only took one thing a day, what would that be? And that was the question that I started with because I was so overwhelmed. I come from the fitness industry. And by the time I'm done taking all the things I should do, number one, I'm overly sugared because there were so many like little bits of sugar in this gummy or that thing or this shake or this supplement or this hydration stick. And I'm overwhelmed. I just got so overwhelmed that I actually quit everything for a while, which is so weird for me because I am a supplement lover. Like I love knowing that I'm doing really good things for my body. And so that was the question that we started with for Glossy was if you only did one thing a day, you know, what would you put in this stick? And the other thing was, you know, there's a lot of different supplements out there right now who are, they're claiming to be everything in one stick. And unfortunately, we know that that can't be true because it is so expensive to get good ingredients that we decided to do eight really good ingredients at amounts that make an impact or have been studied to make an improvement. And this was really huge for us because when I was formulating, I asked my formulator, I'm like, how does X, Y, and Z have all of these things in it? And he's like, oh, it's called a fairy dusting. You put just a sprig of it in there to be able to say that it's in there and you can mark it around it, but technically it's not doing anything. And I was like, oh my God. And that just started my wheels on like, if I'm gonna make a product, it needs to work. You need to love it. You need to feel it. You need to know that it's working. I want, you know, I want like evidence that it works. I want some ingredients that are studied. And that's what got me super excited about creating Glossy was I wanted, like this is what I wanted. And I wanted to stop being overwhelmed. So throughout my life, there have been things that now I'm just calling domino habits. And it's exactly what you explained. It's the one habit in the morning that tips over the domino in a positive way. And it's gonna, when you tip over a positive domino in the morning, because there's negative dominoes too. So when you do a positive domino habit, you're gonna continue to tip positive dominoes, most likely there's gonna be some negative in there, but most likely you are setting yourself up for positivity. People do not understand the power of one positive domino in the morning. So what happens is right now people have a lot of habits where maybe they're, you know, they're waking up and they're grabbing.  and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, all of a sudden says to your brain like, like, I kind of let it go this morning already. I ate that pizza. I put the whipped cream on. I didn't, you know, oh, I skipped my water habit. My, my lemon water. I just now imagining whipped cream on pizza. Proceed. Whipped cream on my coffee. I leave, I leave out very important details. My husband says and I'm like, oh, the best part is when, because I'm your friend, I fill them in and then I'm like, oh wait, that my brain just went somewhere else. You're so right. And so this idea of like, what is that domino routine, the one thing that you can use to set yourself up for success. So this is when we were formulating, I was like, I want something simple and something people can stick to it because I believe we're going to start seeing the trend of going back to simplicity. Like, I think we're all getting it now. We're making fun of the morning shed. We're, we're kind of like talking about all these crazy routines. And while they're super fun and I actually love following a lot of them, and I do think it's important to try things and see what works for you. Like if you're a cold plunger and you need to do three other things, great. Yeah. But I did hear something that like blew my mind the other day. I had a Beatrice Cooley and on my podcast and he goes, I think, I think a long morning routine is a cop out to not do the big things in your life. Like that you feel like, damn it. Because it delays, it delays things and it's like easy to feel like you did something really good for yourself, but at the same time, you kind of don't have time for anything else anymore. So it's if it's really working for you, please for the love. Like I'm the person who's like, keep doing it. If it doesn't then really look at, are you delaying certain things in your life? Because you think you should be doing all these things because we did not have to do this in the past. But with that said, I wanted to create a domino. It's simple. Yeah. Tear the packet open. Just like you said, you like warm water. Some people like cold water. A lot of people first thing they do when they wake up or put your water bottle by your bed or put it by your coffee pot and just let that be the one thing that you're like, I'm just going to drink this water in the morning. That's what I'm going to do. And now you can know you have all of these incredible ingredients in your body, which we'll talk about in a minute. And it's a domino for the positive. And it's a little moment, no pun intended, but pun intended to pour into yourself. And it says to your brain, I'm, you know, I'm worth it. Like this is I take care of myself. I do good things for myself. I drank my glossy water today and confident people and people who follow through on their promises, stack baby wins. And if you don't believe it, I am not even kidding. Don't you don't even have to try it with glossy, but please try it with glossy. Do like a lemon water first thing in the morning. Yeah. Do a lemon water for 30 days and just see how you feel about keeping a promise to yourself that you're going to do something good for yourself every day. Make it super simple or keep one promise to yourself in the morning. That is easy. I don't, I don't want it to be hard because I want you to see how stacking a baby win every single day. You guys read atomic habits. It's literally about this. Like the most confident, successful people probably started with something very similar. One little thing that they were able to stack wins on. Yeah. And, and I like that idea too of the stacking because I have been someone that that has been my routine for a while now is like waking up in hydration first, but knowing them that I can add something in that has probiotics. It has other benefits that yes, they're great for skin. That that's really important to me, but something that I think we're going to start hearing a lot more about. And you have to remind me who you heard say this, that the whole connection between skin health and gut health is going to kind of be like this next frontier that we're going to start to see a lot more in the spotlight. And that's exactly what Glossy was designed to be. So we kind of break down however you want to share, like kind of the hero ingredients. So people really understand like it isn't just something that tastes good. It's not just your typical hydration stick. There are so many benefits and what you shared earlier about in in the amounts that actually matter. It's not just the placebo. You're actually getting doses that make a real difference. I mean, I have seen it in my skin using it every single. I mean, and I mean, this is not like I'm not opposed to it at all, you guys. But I so far 41, no, no Botox, no, just trying to try to. Don't look at me. I push it down the road as long as I can. I'm all of it, everyone. I'm all. But also, but I'm just saying that to say that, you know, no matter what approach you want to take to your wellness or to your skincare. And again, I'm not this isn't I'm never I'm just saying I haven't yet. And I've noticed such a huge difference in the hydration of my skin at an age where I'm just starting to like notice things more, you know. And I think it's the combination of all of it. But the ingredients and glossy are so brilliantly designed. And I know you worked with an amazing team to help you formulate that. So the the podcast that I just listened to that I'm actually going to be talking about a lot more. And I've already contacted this human on here. But it's my first million podcast. And they were doing predictions for what the biggest companies and opportunities for like 20, 25 and beyond will be. And mind you, this was five of them. And one was for a skincare company coming from the gut, because he was talking all about how there is hardly any studies on topical skincare showing that it works. Don't get me wrong. There are some that do work. You know, there's different ingredients like retin A and there's, you know, of course, like a really good lotion is very important. Some serums work, but it is few and far between guys. And it is few and far between that anything you're buying off Amazon that doesn't that was just kind of thrown together, that doesn't have these key ingredients that he's talking about on this podcast, that it's doing anything. And so the craziest part is this is a multi, multi billion dollar industry. When you think of that. So he went on to talk about how there's now all of these studies coming out, talking about how the gut impacts your skin in a much bigger way than we've ever learned and that you can actually, when you start healing your gut, there's like measurements that you can see in your skin that they're starting to learn how to measure that it's more actually like illuminated, which I thought was so crazy as well. So I can't wait to dive into that and learn even more about that. Yeah. But I've always known about skin from within, because I don't know if it's because of the health and fitness industry. We've always talked about that and when I compete on stage, they're like, you really need to watch what you eat because your skin will start to show it. And on stage, you need to like you're, you're dialing it back and your diet's getting, you know, you're cutting back on your diet, but we need to make sure you have this fat and that you have this and for bloating, you're taking this because on that day, you want to feel your best, you want to be glowing and your skin, you guys don't know this, but like the Tanner is the old Tanner that we used to put on for on stage for fitness competitions. And I did this for years and for photo shoots for fitness, right? It's brutal on your skin. It's awful. And if you don't have good skin to start with, it's actually not going to go on well. And so I really started understanding like, okay, I still have to have my good fats. I still have to be doing all of these things because it's going to show up on, on photo shoot day if I'm not good to my skin. So I just have always really understood if you want to look good, you have to also eat for your skin. And so with Glossy and especially with the gut, when we were looking at it, we're like, what's the most impactful thing for your skin that we can do for nutrients? And a probiotic was number one. And so we went with a company that we know had 30 clinical studies on it. And they're, what I love about this company is they're starting to do even more studies, gut and skin related because they're, they're starting to become still aware of what's going on, not only in the industry, but of, of what people are seeing with their own product in their own probiotic. And so when you think of probiotics, we're not really getting much probiotics in our food anymore because we're not eating things. A lot of people don't eat cottage cheese. A lot of people don't eat yogurt. A lot of people don't eat sauerkraut or kimchi. Like yes, more, you know, somewhat cottage cheese, somewhat yogurt, but a lot of people still don't. So where is our probiotic foods, probiotic rich foods? And because now we have refrigerators, like we don't necessarily need to do the process to the food of, of, you know, keeping it around like we used to, which is like very rich probiotic foods. And so with your gut, like especially being related to the biggest organ in your body, if you want to start to heal that or make it, you know, if you want to start improving it, or if you want to start feeling better, you're going to want to look at what type of foods are you eating? You know, are you taking a probiotic? Are you sleeping? Like it's really about the nutrients that you're taking in order to start fixing your gut in any way. And that's, I think that's going to start showing in the skincare industry, like more than, I think more than people realize right now. I think next year will start to be really huge because they're starting to really study it. So exciting. I like just to be on the forefront of that. And also, like I just take this on personally, I'm like, yeah, I'm going to be the one sitting there being like, oh, you guys didn't know that? I've been taking Glossy for a year, but we covered the probiotics. What are the other ingredients that people really need to understand are a part of this product? Okay. So one of my other favorites is hyaluronic acid. And we've all heard of this, that we put it topically on our face. Yes. People don't realize that you make hyaluronic acid in your body, but you make a whole lot less of it in your thirties. So damn it, damn it. But that's okay. That's okay. Because we have Glossy. But let me tell you what it does. So hyaluronic acid is actually a great product for your skin, because what it does is it holds like hundreds of times its weight in water. So when people put it on their skin topically, you do see kind of like that nice juicy plumpness. Like it just feels like a little bit more radiant and plump. And the thing about topical hyaluronic acid though, is you do have to apply it every day on days you don't apply it. You don't get that juicy plumpness. And then it washes off. So you really are spot treating. And I don't know about you, but I'm not putting hyaluronic acid all over my arms and chest and neck and legs. So you're not getting that same effect there. When you ingest oral hyaluronic acid, which again is a naturally reoccurring thing in your body already, what happens is you're getting that everywhere and it's holding that water underneath that top layer of your skin. So when you're like, oh, I just feel like I look more hydrated. It's because your skin actually is more hydrated. And you're no longer spot treating. You're doing your entire body. So especially when I'm having two or three of them, I'm like, oh, I really notice that like, you know, a lot of people say they just noticed their fine lines look a little bit less because it is holding that water underneath. And then you do get that very like dewy glow. So that's hyaluronic acid and oral versus topical. That's so huge. I didn't know that oral versus topical. Yeah. And you guys literally just go, go research it, put it in chat, GPT, like really learn about oral hyaluronic acid. If you're not taking glossy, go take a form of it because it's literally a game changer. Um, and then we have marine magnesium in there, which is, you know, it's incredible for like skin tone, but it's also amazing for like regular bowel movements for a ton of different things that your body is like a ton of different nerve functions, like hundreds and hundreds of nerve functions in your body. And people don't realize that a lot of times if they're feeling a little bit off, sometimes you need magnesium. So many people are magnesium deficient. Right. And they do not know it. So I was just doing a ton of research on magnesium even more than I was doing before, because I was, um, working on writing some really, really good emails on magnesium. And so I was researching all of these magnesiums that I used to take from Whole Foods. And I was like, Oh, these are cheap, fake versions of magnesium. And so the magnesium that we use is from red algae and it's marine magnesium and it's more bio available. It also isn't going to have that like diuretic type of, like effect on your body. Yeah. Because some of them can make you like crampy. And this one is a lot more like gentle on your body. So you're still getting the, like the relaxness of your body and in your bowels, cause that's really why a lot of people love to take magnesium. Be honest. This is why we take it. I want to poop regularly. And so this version of it is going to just be a lot more. You're not going to get like the different issues where people are a little afraid if they take too much of this certain, you know, of a certain type of magnesium, they're not comfortable. If you're out and about, that's not going to go well for you. So that's a big reason why we love this marine magnesium. So cool. And then vitamin C, people don't know that vitamin C, you see it in skincare everywhere because you can't create your own collagen without it. So yes, topically vitamin C is great, but orally, you want to make sure you're actually taking vitamin C. And if you're not eating a lot of fruit and if you're not eating a lot of vegetables, you're probably not getting the vitamin C that you need in order to make enough collagen. So anyone out like that motivated the crap out of me. I'm like, I'm going to take my vitamin C and glossy. I'm going to eat great fruit. I'm going to drink. I'm going to have like, you know, oranges because it's helping your body make its own collagen. That's why it's just forever. It's been such a huge part of skincare, but everybody kind of ignores it. And zinc is really known for also helping like clear up any skin issues. And also we know it's huge for immunity and a lot of people don't take a zinc at all. Yeah. Which again, just kind of going back to this whole idea of like, where else can we simplify and just focus on one routine that's giving us a lot of bang for our buck? Mm hmm. And that's, that's what we wanted to do is I'm like, what are all the skin ingredients that we can use? And then of course we added a coconut water powder for hydration. We have some sea salt in there and the coconut water powder and the marine magnesium between those. We have like 72 different trace minerals that you're missing in your water. So that's another huge trend that's happening. You're seeing it pop off all the time about remineralizing your water. Yep. Because we're not getting the minerals. So you can feel good about remineralizing your water with Glossy too. What's so exciting too is just seeing how you continue to innovate. You have some newish things. There's some new things coming out. I don't know how much we can say. I'm giving you the eyes right now just to say, like, can I say, can I say you have newish things that are going to be coming down the road? And, and again, it's just like such a big part of the simplicity of the routine that I've stuck with. So when it comes to routines, I mean, you're someone who has really built your whole platform on a personal brand based in health and well-being. So when it comes to wellness, like, what are the routines? Like, how are you using Glossy? What are the other routines that are really keeping you going? Because also you're scaling a company. You are, you're just doing so much. You're, you have this huge podcast. The reality is that we have to have routines that keep us showing up as the versions of ourselves that we want to show up as. And people are always so curious. I'm people, me, me. So curious to see what does that look like in your day to day life? Well, I feel like, you know, just to go into a little more of what's in it, I will say that it's replaced a lot of other things that I've seen. Don, which is awesome. Because I feel like it's cut back on skin routines, which I was never great at anyway, but I've always kept dabbling and trying like, I'm going to try this serum. I'm going to try this hyaluronic acid. So, you know, it's cut back on like a hyaluronic acid. It's cut back on time, standing at my cabinet, like taking all of these different supplements. So that's been really big for me is just feeling really good about that one domino habit in the morning. I do take it in the afternoon and at night as well, you guys, which I want to inject right there because I didn't realize the benefit of taking it at night as well, the added probiotics, proceed. Added probiotics and magnesium. Yes. And there's a thing other term. Like relaxes your muscles. It relaxes your gut. That's why you might, you know, have a great B.M. in the morning. We can talk about poop. A great poop in the morning. I think just when you go through your day relieved, it's just, it's there's nothing quite like it. We want this for you. Look, when a woman walks in and she's glowing, it's because she took a good poop as well. This is true. Thank you for that. Thank you for that one line for the trailer reel. Anytime. You know, I've got like five other versions of that. So I just wanted to say that because when I stayed with you guys last and you guys were like, we're doing our little bedtime routine, you know, you and Chris are taking glossy. I was like, wait, that's actually brilliant. I was. And so I was thinking about just even like those little additions that adding it at night for the magnesium for, you know, all the skin health benefits, like your body is literally rejuvenating. So I'm saying double up on your dose of glossy, proceed. No, it's, you guys, we need more water. We're not drinking enough water. So it's also taste great. That was huge. I wanted to taste really like real, like if you took a lemon and you put a little bit of like natural sugar in there, which we use monk fruit. And that's what it tastes like. And I've just always wanted to keep that like very real flavor to it. Yeah. And so drinking it in the morning and drinking it and it helps you get more water. Yeah. And it is, that is so huge, not only for your mood, but your energy, your skin, health, there's, there's so much about water just to even, even that helps keep you regular. It's really important. Okay. So glossy morning, noon and night is what I'm hearing. Okay. Great. And the routines that right now in the season specifically, what else is really keeping you grounded, keeping you focused, helping to keep you organized too? Um, you know this with Chris and I, like we're huge walkers. Yeah. So walking is really big when we get, you know, really busy or I have a really big, heavy season in front of me. And this has been a big, heavy season. I'm not going to lie. There's, there's a lot to work through, push through, figure out, get organized with glossy. I'm in year one of a startup. Like I don't, I think from the outside it's like, wow, it's doing amazing. And yes, but there is like, so there are goals to hit. There are like, there's so much to learn. There's things to get out. There's things that go wrong in the background that people don't realize. So walking is one of the most supportive things that I can do, not only for my body, but to move energy, to connect with my husband, to go listen to a podcast, to get out to, you know, if I'm in a funky mood, get out and take another walk. Like walking is therapy. It is a version of therapy. I go walk and I pray. I go walk and I, I, you know, meditate. I manifest. I don't know where I'd be without walking. I literally don't know where I'd be. I don't think I would be doing any of this. I think it's one of the most important things that someone can do. It doesn't matter where you live. I've walked, I lived in Minnesota. I still walked every day. Like I would just get all dressed up, put a ski mask on in the winter, and I'd still walk my dogs because I, I saw the difference in my life. So trust me when I say, just go, like, try it 30 days, 60 days by day 90, you'll be like, I have to walk. It's, it's a game changer. Here's the challenge. Fill up your glossy water bottle, put a stick of glossy and take yourself for a walk, like even if it's 10, 15 minutes, like that, starting your day like that. And that's something that I have adopted too. And really it was from being around you guys. And when I would come to visit, like that was such a part of our daily routine. And I saw the difference that it made. And you know that we do the power nine on our walk, which I don't know that we've shared that here. So can we share with that? Okay. This is another routine, business and personal that this is almost now dipping to you into like relationships of the things that I, I see as, you know, someone who's in your life, how it keeps you and your husband connected. It helps you connect with your goals both physically and financially. So for someone who hasn't heard the power nine, what is it? So the power nine is a super simple way to stay focused on your goals and to connect with your partner, or if you don't have a partner, connect with yourself truly. And it is three things that you're grateful for, three things you're excited about and three things you're manifesting. And you know how I like to do it. If Lindsay and I are on a walk together, I'll say three things I'm grateful for. Then she says three things. She's grateful for it. And I say three things I'm excited about, then she does and so on and so forth. And what this is doing is it makes you stop and think because even if you had the worst week, which you guys, when you're in a new business, I know you understand, we're not even a new business. When you're in any business or when you're trying to make a goal happen, maybe you're literally just trying to make a health goal happen right now. There's going to be a whole lot of bad days. There's going to be bad weeks. Sometimes there's bad months, you know, sometimes there's bad years. And so sometimes there's bad decades. Can we keep going? Sometimes you're just stuck. And the power, like the grateful for is make you dig on a day that wasn't great. And on days that are great, it feels really good. So three things you're grateful for no matter what. And on a bad day, you can always find something to be grateful for. And what's happened a lot is the things we're grateful for now is like we reframe things like on a, you know, maybe on our walk, it'll be like, wow, I'm actually grateful that that person didn't follow through on their promise because it's just making me dig super deep. And I found five more people who will. And so it's like really learning how to reframe those things. And that's what it does. And then the excited abouts, I forget what I'm excited about because I get overwhelmed with my to-do list. I'm like, Oh, that's great. Oh my God, I get to go do that podcast with Lindsay on Saturday. I'm so excited about that. And I think it's really important to always be looking at things and always have things planned that you're excited about. Otherwise life gets, it gets way too mundane and we can get so serious. And being serious is not where the fun and the answers come in. It's just not like, at least not for me. And then the manifesting, it's really incredible how much you forget about what you're, what you're truly focused on, what the big picture is. And it's really fun to look back and go, Oh my God, I was just about to say this manifest, but it actually happened this week. Like I've been wanting to work with this person and I've been manifesting it, you know, every day for however long. And now I'm working with them. Now I get to make room for another manifest. And it's just, you know, with Chris and I, the cool thing is, is that we both get so busy every day. And by the time night comes, you know, like we don't really want to talk sometimes or just like, Oh my God, some of our favorite times together and not talking. I know, just being quiet, sitting on our phone, scrolling and saying nothing or just like eating and to the oblivion. I'm just picturing us. I think we ate chicken with like our hands at the last time. I don't know. We did get a wall. I think we really did. Yes, exactly. So it's like being able to connect on things that are important. Otherwise, I don't know if I'd really know what trajectory my husband is on, even if a week went by. Yeah, things are moving so fast right now. If I don't get to catch up on a daily basis, I feel like I'm getting it. You're getting a different version of some of you don't stay up on it. Yeah. Yeah. It's just, I think, so cool to sit here and kind of reflect on the past year and just the journey of Glossy and and also just through the lens of like, gosh, you really have always been my friend that anchors me in the routines. That really make a difference. It's no freaking surprise that you thought of this brilliant company and this way that we can all connect in with. It's like, if you can make that connection between like one daily habit, something like drinking something first thing in the morning, that's really good for you and the habit stacking, the ripple effect that that can have in every area of your life, we over complicate it so much when really success and fulfillment can be that simple. So as you think about year two, this beautiful journey that I'm so excited to have like a front row seat, but also like a backstage pass. What are you most excited about? And then the second piece I want to answer, I want to like get very tangible with this, how can people support you in this journey? Like, what are you most excited about first for year two? I'm most excited about what else we're creating with Glossy. Like I really want to create a community and a platform that supports the entire idea of beauty and skin from the inside out. And I want to create pretty much like, I'll just give you a little hint, like glow pillars and different things that really support you when you're joining the community. So I really believe that looking forward, because AI is literally going to level the playing field for a lot of things. You guys, there can be a brand that's not that great or ingredients that aren't that great or ingredients that are great. And it's going to level the playing field by kind of like making people all good marketers, because it's going to become an amazing marketer. And so the messaging and, you know, even the formulations are all going to be out there. They can rip off formulations. They can put them in and say, make a better formulation than this. And they can, you know, be able to create stunning images that you don't need all of this marketing money for. So it's going to really level the playing field for brands across the whole world. And I think the things that are going to set people apart are what types of benefits and communities they're building. And that's going to be the only thing that's going to set people apart because there's going to be plenty of great formulas. There's going to be plenty of great imaging. There's going to, it's going to be all figured out and it's going to be at everyone's fingertips. Now, will people do it? No, but it will level the playing field for those who will. And so I want to really build something that I believe is of true value to someone who really cares about their, their whole glow up, like what actually goes into it. And I believe it's, you know, I believe it's mindset. I believe it's movement. I think it's nourishment. And I think it's your community. And so when people buy Glossy, I want them to get a version of all of that without, you know, in a way that is very either accessible or comes with it. Not sure what we're going to make that look like yet. Yeah. Okay. I'm so excited because I mean, that is going back to just your whole trajectory from fitness into network marketing. And, you know, now getting to bring all of that together is like really what it feels like. It's so beautiful to see that community and really the movement that's forming around it. And I was saying this to you when we were having our little fireside chat, just reflecting on the last year, you know, I think it's very easy to look at the outside of, you know, just in you and you've been so successful. I know you don't maybe always feel that way. It's always when we're the one who's experiencing it, we just see where we're going next. And, you know, this community loves you. This community is so invested in you and you've poured so much into us. What are like the tangible things that people can do to be a part of this, to support this female founded company that's backed by female investors? Like I just, what I really want to get at is, you know, I think, yes, there's of course, like the traditional routes of, of you're doing so many incredible things when it comes to your marketing plan. And the women in this community love them some Lori harder. Like what are the biggest things that we can be doing that actually make a huge difference to a company that's in this beautiful startup phase has such a powerful first year, really powerful. But what do you need from us? I'm obsessed with the powerhouse community because they've supported me like nobody else. It's like my favorite stage to speak on. Cause I'm just like, this is the most fun. It's the most fun. I got to, I told you this, I got to sit in the back at your event or go in the back of your event last year where the glossy booth was. And for all of pajamas and Prosecco, I met people and it was the most insane, beautiful community. And I told you there were women there who I thought they all came in gangs. I was like, how do you all, how do you all have 10 friends? And they're like, we all just met. And I'm like, this is like nowhere else I've ever been. And it, you know, or, oh my God, I met this girl last year and we're best friends. Like that's all I heard. It was the most beautiful, supportive group of women that I've ever seen ever, ever in my entire life. And I've been to every year except the very first year. I don't know what my problem was. I don't know if I knew about it. I don't know if we knew each other. I, we weren't there yet. We weren't there yet. I saw online and I was like, I, I want to be a part of this bubblegum wall. What is this? I don't know. I also didn't know what I, at all what it was or what I was doing, but that was a very cool moment to have Glossy at the event. Okay. But I cut you off from the original question of just like knowing this community loves you so much. What are some of the things that like.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, not only support them, but like get a fun piece of the action as well. Totally. And you know, I told you, I think that the way that things are going is really like women supporting different brands that they love and affiliates. Like it's the new network marketing, but maybe better. Like for a lot of people, you don't have to run a team. So you know, for supporting Glossy, the most amazing thing would be to buy it, try it, share it. Like it's a game changing product. It literally is game changing. And I, the main way to support is to purchase it and share it, share it with a link, become an affiliate. I would love to pay you. We are actively looking at affiliates for people who we notice are able to, you know, do a good job with sales and then we want to promote them into something else. It's kind of our little like secret society right now that we're not talking about because we want that to be for people who are really showing that they are able to, you know, make sales in Glossy and we'll create something more later. But right now, affiliating is still amazing. You're getting paid. It's incredible. But to a startup, the way that brands are growing right now is through the people who love the product. And that's really it. Like yes, we're putting ad money behind those, you know, that UGC and we're, you know, helping people create UGC who love the product. We're helping try to coach them of like, how can you actually share this? How can you become better at it? But that is how companies are growing is through people sharing and not just sharing once. Like if you love a product, you guys share it all the time. Like I just got pajamas from in my Sundays and I love these freaking pajamas so much that today I was like, oh my God, this is the second time I've now uploaded because whenever, and I just got them last week, and I'm like whenever I wear these and want to try to remember yet to promote and promote with a link. I didn't today. I will do that next time. Promote with a link as well. Like send a link or if you are an affiliate, always put your link in there. And that is when a company gets that, I don't think you quite understand how we all celebrate in the background. Like we're like my, my team, my employees, we're all jumping up and down going, oh my God, this means everything. And when we hear that, you know, this is the first year that you actually feel good again, that you feel bloated, that you feel like you're digesting your food, that you're not uncomfortable whenever you go out to eat, that you wake up and you feel like your tummy's flat. Like this is life changing stuff to us that when we get tagged in all of this or oh my God, my, you know, I feel like my face is clear for the first time in forever. When we see those, we freak out. It's incredible. And so that is how you can best promote for us. And then other companies too, if you have a company that you love, that you know you want to support, that you want to see kept around, because it is, it's real out there, you guys. It costs so much money to have a product. People have no idea the overhead to have a product. And so if you're a woman who wants a product in the future, if you're a woman who wants to know that you also have whatever to you sounds like a bigger path or a bigger goal in the future, it's pertinent that you support other women because we're paving the way for you and your path. And so now more than ever, I am looking out for women who I'm like, I see you. How can we partner? I like, you know, if you're behind me, if you're ahead of me, if you have a product, let's talk, let's support each other because that's how we're going to survive. Same thing with you and I, Lindsay, like when we met, we were like, it didn't matter if we both had stages. Yeah. We didn't care that we both had events. We didn't care that our programs could have been considered competing. We literally still don't give a crap. We both have podcasts, you know, books, all the things. And we're like, let's partner, let's go on a podcast together. Let's literally, because when you rise, I rise, like it just gets better. And when people see that together and when people see you promoting other people's products, it's like, it just helps the whole mission and it just helps everyone rise. So truly, whether it's my product or someone else's you're passionate about, like when you wear it, tag it, share it, it's vital. Yeah. Even just like, you know, we have been in such busy seasons and I got to come. We just literally, like we just need time together, even if we're just working at your dining room table, sitting next to each other. And we dropped in for a few days and just really got to connect over like, okay, what are you doing right now? And like, no, what do you need? How can I use what I'm doing to support what you're up to? And, you know, we just got to be more intentional with slowing down and saying like, okay, no, how can we really make glossy and even bigger part of the powerhouse women world? Because I use it every single day, multiple times a day. And I think getting out of my day to day routine of having to be so like in the details of my business to step back and be like, no, how can we actually make what each other are doing? Like, so get together with the women who you really support, find the women within this community that you want to be that champion of and and talk about meaningful ways. Know how can we actually make it a part of the day to day of what we're doing in business? Because that is how we are all going to go further faster. So I'm so excited. You're going to be hearing a lot more about glossy and and really just from this place of I would be sharing it using it regardless of whether it was created by one of my favorite people on the planet because I truly love it that much. Also, I have never I just have never met and I share this whenever people whenever your name comes up in a room you're not in is that you are you're just even better. You're more down to earth. You are more authentic, more of a champion for women than people even see on the exterior behind closed doors. When no one's watching, it is your heart and soul. And there's no one who deserves just all of the best things in life more than you. And I'm just so grateful to be on this journey together. I love you so much. And I feel that exact same way. Like I can't imagine not having you or found this or being able to share this moment and this gift with other women, too, because I know that they will find it if they want it. Yeah, we'll get it if they want it. So you've been on the show multiple times. You've shared multiple powerhouse moments with us. But what's maybe like a glossy specific my powerhouse moment that you want to just pause and really celebrate? We kind of started by celebrating what you're proud of yourself for. But what's like a recent powerhouse moment like in your day to day where you're like, yeah, like I really am so proud of myself for how I showed up in that in that way. I think we think we get these ideas and like we we think they're going to get us to this emotion of this experience that we want. We're like, oh, when I get there, I'm going to get this feeling. And I think glossy is like literally outside of, you know, life things or people passing or whatever like big life experience. It's it's we're being called to things because they're going to be our greatest teacher and not in a scary way. Like it's been the most challenging thing, but the most challenging and expansive things. Right. We all want to expand like your expander's retreat. Are literally the things that are going to help us meet ourselves. So we're being called to it for that reason. And I think that that's what I'm realizing this year is I'm for the first time ever. Truly, I'm getting really grateful for the lessons. Like I don't I'm not I'm not scared of them anymore. Like they're not going to take me down. I'm not, you know, going to be a failure if something fails. Like I'm looking at it as truly like this is here for me to become the best version of myself. And we know when that happens, like Lindsay, it's in it's in my DNA and your DNA that we are going to bring everyone with us. So I just trust and I think that's been my biggest lesson this year is like I just really I'm learning what trust feels like and it's very scary. Thank God we're not doing it alone. Yeah, exactly. So grateful for you. I'm grateful for you.

=== FILE: Stand Out in a Saturated Market and Build a Brand People Obsess Over with Lauren Robuck [BWF6htYj7kI].txt ===

 what do you recommend to people who are thinking of starting a brand? Would you say like, go get all the jobs and figure it out? I think those experiences really did build like, a little CEO in the making. I would say if you're starting right now, it would be such a wise idea to be either working under someone, I always say make mistakes with somebody else's money. It's so true. That is like such a huge takeaway. Lauren, welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much. I'm so blessed to be here. I'm so excited to just sit and chat about everything that you've created and all that you've done because you are such a creative person, which this is going to be so much fun. I've also gotten to work with you in a few different capacities. First of all, do not know where I first found you. I literally think it was either an Instagram ad or somebody shared your stuff. I have no idea. I am in a massive jewelry phase in my life. Obviously, I was just on Instagram and I was scrolling and your jewelry caught my eye. Then I looked and I'm in a place of trying a ton of different things. I also was like, whoa, your price point is awesome because a lot of times I land on things and I'm like, okay, I'll try a piece or two. But yours I was like, add to cart. I think my first cart order, I don't even remember, but I feel like I probably ordered like four or five things. I'm pretty sure it's like 600. I was like, I always remember those names. That's so funny. Then I had multiple orders that were like that because I just loved the quality. I loved how it looked. I love that it felt really unique. Your branding though, there was something about your branding that just made me feel like I wanted to be a part of it. I'm very much in the branding phase of my life as well. I think the whole thing when I fell on your Instagram page and then I also, of course, we all go and we search out who the founder is if you're an entrepreneur and anybody listening to this podcast. I was like, I love this girl. She's super stylish. She's got a great attitude. She's got that amazing girlfriend energy, which you do. You're very much a girl's girl, but also still so cool, which doesn't happen all the time. That's when I was like, I'm going to just send her random messages. If she thinks I'm a freak, that's great. I was like, I love your jewelry. I'm a fellow. And then here we are. I actually got to work with you on a photo shoot where you styled a photo shoot for me. We had your jewelry, some clothes, but you also just helped me with the whole overall vibe of what it was going to be, which is going to be a podcast free brand. I'm very excited to have you here. Thank you so much for coming on. We're going to dig into all of that because I know you have such a colorful past of so many things, like most creatives I know. I would love for you to take us back to your childhood. I know I had asked you for some fun facts and you had told me one that was you had lived somewhere different every 24 hours. Is that correct? That is correct. Tell me about what that is. So whenever I tell the story, people are like, this has to be a movie because it's so crazy. But long story short of it all is that my parents got divorced before I was even one years old. I'm humble, but they loved me so much that they wanted to split their time every 24 hours, every other parent. Wow. Until I was 16 years old, I was living like that. So really crazy setup. Obviously, that takes a lot of effort and work on my end to try and stay organized. And amongst all the chaos, I was going to a very intense private school my whole life and trying to keep the homework and the uniforms and the whole thing. It's just so crazy. They did the best that they could with what they had and they're both incredible parents. Talk to them like five times a day each still. But yeah, it was definitely a wild way to grow up, I would say. Were you always creative? I'm just trying to think of like being creative in that type of environment. What did that look like? How did you when you grew up, what were some of the things you lean towards? I would say, oh yeah, for sure, always creative. I think that really had a part in like my schooling, right? I went to a super private school where it was very academic focus and I was very opposite. So I had full-time tutors, like just was kind of behind everyone in a different way. I wasn't really interested, was like drawing while everybody was studying and like didn't really grasp that. So I did everything when I was younger, like was in singing lessons for 14 years and like everything creative I could get my hands on Excel that. So for high school, my parents were like, we're putting you in a magnet art school. Like this is going to be your thing. And when I tell you, it was chef's kiss, perfect fit, could not have been a better choice for me. I just was able to thrive. I literally came out of my shell. Okay, so when you were young, what like not excelling in all of the other things in academia, were you like in my, were people like, is this kid smart? Is she not smart? Like what did that look like growing up? Or was it, did they know you were just massively creative or were they worried about you? My parents definitely knew I was massively creative for sure and super social. Like being an only child, it really pushes you out of your comfort zone. Like everybody was my best friend. Like you're coming home with me. Yeah, it was just like not an option. But I do think the teachers saw like I had severe ADHD, like from a very young age, my parents are very homeopathic. So, you know, pills were never on the table, which I'm actually very glad about. Always natural. Like, anyway, so that was the route that they took. And I think a lot of my teachers being that I was in such a small private school, I had eight kids in my class from preschool to eighth grade, like such an individualized tailored schooling to where I think they were really hyper fixated on the human that I was that you don't really get that in public school. I mean, this is such a unique experience. So I think they were just more hyper fixated on like, why aren't you getting it? And for me, I just honestly wasn't interested. Yeah, I'm like, talk about fine with it. You're like, no, babe, like, let's get on the same page here. You're like, you're so Chanel. Yeah, like, let's think that interests me. Yeah. What do you think is common for so many kids? And when you're in a school that's private like that, that is such a high level of academia at such a young age, it really is a lot of pressure and stress. But obviously, they just wanted the best for me. And I'm glad that I got that but such a polar difference when I went to high school and was like, Oh, these are my people. Like this is what I meant to do. This is the space I meant to thrive in. Like, all of my friends were in photography painting, like my first year in high school, I'd like a 4.2. Because I was like, Oh, this is right. You know, everything is kind of clicked. Yeah. So for you growing up, what were some things I always like to learn like, what was something that you were taught that you had to lose in order to become the person you are now. So like a way maybe that you were raised or your parents used to think. Yeah. And then what was something that really helped you with what you do now, like the way that you were raised? I think being in that environment where I was, you know, back and forth so often, I had a massive lack of control in my life. And, you know, I've been in therapy my whole life proud to say, but my therapist always goes back and tells me, you know, when you were younger, you had little to no control of anything. And so I formed OCD when I was really young, like fully diagnosed and everything. And I was not a perfectionist, but like every I felt like that was me taking control of a certain part of my life. You know, thank God I was able to shed that and shed those rituals and habits and things like that. But that's something I take super seriously. And I'm, you know, was very proactive in like my healing from that. How would that show up for you? Like the OCD as a young kid in a very dark way? I mean, like there was some warnings on the way to school that I or before we would leave the house that I would like brush my teeth 20 times and not want to step on a crack like the old wives tale, but something in my belief system was like, okay, this is the way that you're going to have control of your life. And it was always like crazy drama, you know, crazy things that like movie stuff that would be as a kid, that's kind of what you have control over. Can I brush my teeth? Yeah, yeah, I don't know. It's just this mental thing that formed from, you know, me having zero to no control over my life and had it up until like early teens and formative years and luckily went to therapy and worked through it in a natural way. But it's really hard when you know, you're so young and you're not, you have no idea what's going on. It's all happening around you. So I think that shaped me to really, you know, be aware of that and that literally what's going to happen is what's going to happen. All you have control of is how you react to it. And you know, I wish I could tell a little old me that and be like, it's okay, like everything is going to be okay, but it's hard when you're you're out of it now, but it was tough. What are some things that you feel like you've really gained from that experience of the constant back and forth? I literally just for my personal like who I am, I can't imagine sleeping somewhere every single other night, even though it might be like the same somewhere, it's still like this going back and forth and never having like a super normal semblance of like what you're doing at that time. So what would you say you really gained from that experience now, even though it was crazy as a child? I would say I learned to be very present in the spaces I was in. I obviously as a little girl, you want your mommy. And so every time I would be at my dad's whom I love dearly and is the best friend of mine now, you know, I would be missing my mom or not fully being able to be present at my dad's because I wasn't in my mom's space or whatever it was and sometimes vice versa. So I think just being, you know, this is where I am right now and what can I how can I make the most out of this situation? Even though, you know, being so young, you want both of your parents to be in the same place. And to be honest, in my older life, I have kind of manifested it in the way of like making my parents be best friends. I was like in my early 20s, I was like, you guys, this is over. Like I know we're divorced, but we can be besties. Let's all come together and my partner, he always talks about this. He's like, it's crazy how comfortable and, you know, just like so at ease your parents are in the same room as each other. He's like, can't imagine a divorce couple like that. And I'm like, well, it's, you know, I've encouraged them and through me, hopefully, it's my influence, but, you know, just encouraging them that life is short and let's all relish each other's company because they're both such incredible human beings. They have so much in common and they made me so that's their biggest thing. You're like, this is magical. So yeah, and they love it and celebrate it and are super grateful to for it. They're like, thank you for, you know, making us all get along and they're always at each other's Christmases and we don't, we don't do things separate anymore. So that's so good. Yeah. What is something that you grew up with that was always told to you by your mom or your dad that has been like a game changer for you? I think from my mom, well, different ones from my mom and my dad, but my mom has owned her own business since I was three years old and my dad owns his own as well, grip and like a family of entrepreneurs. But my mom was always like, nothing will come to you. You know, you have to work very hard and I definitely formed my grit from watching how she works, how hard she works. And I never ever as a child ever remember money ever being an issue or a topic or anything like that because she hustled. She hustled so she could make it happen. What did she do? So my mom worked in shipping when I was really young and then started her and she now has an antique business of almost 30 years. Wow. Fishy Fines and Fishy Fines. Yes. It's great. It's an amazing store. It's like 6,000 square feet. It's incredible. She's such a great eye and she knows everything about everything. Like she can appraise something out of like a dark dungeon. That's amazing. It's crazy. So anyways, just really seeing how hard it is to build a business from the ground up and you don't know schooling or anything for what she went for, what she ended up doing. But just seeing that grit and really knowing like the hours it takes and waking up at 2am to go to the Rose Bowl to then make connections and you know, like build this community around her brand that she now has. It's incredible to see like where she started and not where she is. But that was a really big, you know, that's been a huge part of my life and showed me like nothing is handed to you at all. And it takes extreme hard work. I think people, you know, enter like owning a small business and they're like, oh, this is going to be great. Like it's going to be all these things. And it's like, yes, it's great. But it's also incredibly the toughest thing you could do. I know. I love when people quit their full time job to then work like 100 hours a week. Oh, I'm like, babe, this doesn't stop. And like now that I work with my partner, which we'll get into, but it's even more so, right? You really have to compartmentalize your life and then your business. And my life is my business and vice versa. So it's just that finding that line in between. And my dad the same, you know, his mom started a business, she invented a certain type of wheelchair. So he worked for her since I was a baby. And I grew up in that environment seeing him, you know, run the family business. And he's incredibly inspiring as well. Now in his own business of like, I think over 15 years, he's an arborist, tree specialist. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm like, yeah, I don't know how I knew that. But yes, you're like, yes, got it. No, but he's, you know, he's had so many businesses as well. And he's like, you just have to follow truly where your passion is. And I think that's why I've, you know, been able to have my business for so many years now because it truly is what I love. Was working for somebody ever a thing or because you saw them, you grew up that way and it's such an entrepreneurial household. Was it just all you were always going to have a business or what did you think when you grew up? Oh my God, I wish it wasn't a thing. I wish I could go back and say, little Lauren, just go for it. No, I worked retail for 13 years. I worked for so many different companies and in so many different positions that now looking back, I'm like, thank God, you know, I worked in a showroom. I worked at August showroom, which is in downtown. They host amazing brands. I worked for my friend, Jen Rossi, who owns Jen's Pirate Booty, I think you know. Oh yeah. I worked for so many and then I Spent some money on that site. Yeah, we funded it a little. But just so many, you know, also so many jobs where I'm like, oh my God, what am I doing here? This is so not like, soul-nourishing, you know, it's sucking. And I'm so social. So I think those jobs, I did really well in them because I was able to give a lot of energy to people and oftentimes that's what you go into a store for, you know, you're going to buy a top, but you're also going to get like a mini therapy session. Of course. I think I was really good at that. And it was commissioned. So it worked out for me. But you know, in the long run, it taught me customer service and brand building. And I saw so many behind the scenes things of these founders of these big businesses. And you just don't learn that in a classroom. No. So I'm forever grateful that I did that at a very young age, truthfully. Are you glad that you got that experience before starting your brand? Because a lot of people, especially now it's like, you know, all of these young people are looking on Instagram and they kind of think like they can just pop up and start something right away, which some can, some totally can, depending upon like their help and all of the things. Yeah. But what do you recommend to people? And we'll dive into your company and like how that got started. But what do you recommend to people who are thinking of starting a brand? Would you say like, go get all the jobs and figure it out? Or what does that path look like? I think it's so different per person. For me, I'm really grateful that I have that because like I said, I didn't go to college, you know, I was in community college and then moved to Australia and Bali and a bunch of crazy stuff. But I didn't have that classroom experience or that business experience, you know, when it comes to like business finances or any of those backgrounds that for me, I think why I was able to launch it because I already had that experience of, you know, customer service and like brand building and all those things that I would not have learned otherwise. Obviously had amazing mentors in my life. But yeah, I think those experiences really did build like a little CEO in the making. And so I'm really grateful and I would just say, I think it's not a bad idea to have a job while starting your business. I didn't. It was the beginning of COVID. So I was in a very different situation. But I would say if you're starting right now, it would be such a wise idea to be either working under someone. I always say make mistakes with somebody else's money. It's so true. Period. So true. That is so true. If you get anything, any, any big thing from this podcast, which you'll get a lot, but that is like such a huge takeaway. Okay, I love that. So let's talk about the beginning of Jenica Row, which is what you're doing now. All of like the jewelry that we're both wearing. If you're on camera, we can see we're just like fully stacked. Yes. I'm not, I'm not as fully stacked as I want to be today, but she is fully stacked with her new collection too. Always. This is my base layer, by the way. This is the base. I only add on to the stars. Yes. I know I'm actually in a place in my life where I'm like, if I feel uncomfortable leaving the house, go add two more pieces. 100%. Yeah. Okay. That's what it is. Yeah. So I'm like, literally, I've heard it before and it's like the best advice on planet earth because it's like just makes you get so into like, I just want to be so comfortable with myself. You know, that's my like eternal life project is like, how can I just be so comfortable being the most or being the least? Like, however, like in all forms. Okay. So tell me what that looked like in the decision making period of the back and forth of, am I going to do this? Am I not going to do this? Love that. So I started my business in COVID, like I said before, I was a, we haven't topped on this yet, but I was a celebrity stylist and a stylist at a circle, Ron Herman, had many clients there, but you know, a lot of my higher profile clients that were like celebrities and such would always ask me about the jewelry I was wearing. And of course, obviously I made it and could not sell it to them, but would gift it to them because the opportunity for them to be in it would be life changing for me. So COVID hit, everybody got laid off and I was already in the mindset of, I had actually put in my two weeks before COVID had hit and I told my mom, I was like, I'm going full throttle and COVID hit and it was a very, very lucky timing. This was like divine timing for me. Anyways, that happened and I had no choice, but to put my all into this business and this brand within two weeks. I could do not. I had a, one of those advisors on gloves, a mask because COVID, you know, it was in the beginning when everybody was like, oh my God, we're going to die. There's aliens. Right. And it was LA. It was LA. Yeah. I was there and was walking into stores like selling my brand. These people like, hi, I have a jewelry brand. I know no one's shopping in person right now, but like, God forbid, you take me up on this, you know, and it worked. It just hit and I think we were in the phase of like people, you know, spending money because there was honestly nothing else to do. You know, we want to adorn ourselves, wear sweats, drink good wine and wear hot jewelry. Like I was just like, cool. This is the perfect timing and kind of just went from there. Our first two weeks, I think I got into two or three stores locally. I was in Sherman Oaks at the time. So, but no one was shopping in person. So how was that working? A couple of people were. Okay. Oh, because we could go in. I'm trying to remember back. We could go. That's right. We could go. We could go in. Okay. There was a couple of stores that stayed open as long as you wore a masking gloves. Like, you know, brick and mortar stores that are paying monthly rent that are not getting any kickbacks from the government that are like, well, we have to stay open somehow. Yeah, totally. So I won't name names, but people were still going in and shopping for sure, whether it was like backdoor stuff. Were you online at the time too? Or were you all in stores? All in stores and DM. There was a lot of word of mouth. My dear friend, Jen Rossi, who owns Jen's Pirate Booty, she actually started with sweatpants. I don't know if you know that, but I made tie-dye sweatpants in the very beginning. I had like my own production. I went downtown, got the fabric, had a seamstress, like handmade all these sweatpants, like avi-dernation vibes, but I was tying them in my bathtub. Oh my God. And she posted and they like went viral in the beginning for me. So I'm doing like 30 sets a day. So like 60 separates in my little apartment. But you probably didn't even have room to like hang them. It was a disaster. It was so crazy. And I was like, I don't know what to the girls going to be, but yeah, literally like strings in my bathroom. There's like dripping dye on the floor. I'm like, mess, mess, mess, mess. But it's, it's what people were drawing to. And I was forming a community. So I was like, oh my gosh, I knew in the back of my head, obviously I wanted it to be a jewelry. But I was like, well, if this is what gets it off the ground, so be it. And I don't know if you remember, but everybody was just in sweats that whole for sure. And I was like, well, also a good time to kind of launch into the jewelry. So jewelry, like, that's a little hotter than just the sweat. You're like, you can add the storage. So yeah, I don't know. So that was a really good segue for me. And then honestly, yeah, it was, it just took off from there with all the, you know, obviously cold calling and things. I did it all my old jobs because I was a sales rep. I had a lot of contacts and connects and really just put myself out there like raw. This is me. This is what I'm doing now. Okay. So tell me about how much it costs to get started with a jewelry. Were you designing the jewelry? What does that look like? Who did you find to help you with that? Like, all of that putting it together. So if anybody's listening and they're like, how do you even start something like that? I really want you to go through and just say what you put together. Okay, yes. I think at the time I did not have a ton mind you, this is seven years ago. So I, my whole relationship with money has shifted now. My partner in life and in the business is in finance. That's what he went to school for. So he's, he's got me, I know my stuff now, but back then I definitely did not. For sure. I didn't know shit before. Oh my god. I think I started it with like, maybe put aside like two grand to be like, okay, let's put all of this into mind you. We were also getting funds from the government at the time for, I forgot what it was called, but it was like a few, we call them jewelry funds. Yeah. Yeah. We've all just story funds. Anyways, you know, was using my entire savings being like, okay, well, I have nothing else to pour this into right now. Let's just go for it. It was very helpful obviously because we were still getting, you know, stipulations from the government. So I just used all of that. I was like, I'm literally not going to spend another dollar besides on jinnikaro stuff. I just honestly started Googling. I had been making jewelry since I was five. We didn't touch on that, but when you say that like, like where like, you know, workshop, literally just like at home, beating for hours actually taught a hand wire wrapping class when I was 12 years old at like my local bead store. Yeah. But like that kind of stuff always was with me, right? So my mom would drive me to gem shows and whatever. So I did already know about the world, but what I entered into was a totally different thing. So I was literally Googling from day one. I'll never forget. I was up at like 2am talking to a manufacturer in China. And now we have five manufacturers, but you know, just kind of doing my research of like, where do people get stuff made? Like even the concept of that. So I originally started, they have these crazy high minimums, which now obviously we work with, but at the time I was so small. So I was hand baking every piece. I was just sourcing wholesale chain and the best quality I could find. I was doing little custom like charm necklaces everything like that that I could. Yeah. And yeah, it was kind of like, what was that volume the first couple months of your hand making it? Were you talking like four pieces a month? Are you talking like, what did that look like? No, I would say from the beginning, I think jewelry girls are very hard hitters, especially when they like join a community. Yeah. You know, this is literally my life and my passion. I would say in the beginning beyond the sweatsuits, which we would sell upwards to like 30 sets of sweats a day, high volume for being handmade. I would say the jewelry was probably in the beginning somewhere from like 10 to 20 pieces a day. Okay. That's a lot. It's a lot for hand making. Yes. And is this because just for anybody listening, like, is this because you got to tap into somebody with a list who had shared it? Like where did that the eyeballs all come from? Was it from being able to tap into some of those people with lists, meaning email list, but also the people in the retail side that you knew? I think it was a combo. And also a lot of my friends at the time who did have a platform would be posting about it. I did very light gifting in the beginning. I didn't even know what that was, or would, you know, pop something free and with their gifts so that they would feel honored to talk about it and be like, oh my god, this quality is amazing. And just getting people to really trust the brand in the beginning, which was huge. So if I had someone who had, you know, a bigger influence, obviously would, you know, help them out with something else because the brand needed the organic following at the beginning. And that's what really helped us, I think, is just giving people awareness and, you know, thank you so much for buying this $20 earring or whatever it was at the time. And like, here's a bracelet. Enjoy it. And I hope you come back just like any other business, like a restaurant starts, you know, you don't know our foods good until you try it. And I still stand by that. I'm, you know, we have a lifetime warranty on all of our jewelry. And I'm I would love for you to try it. And if it's not for you, I will take care of you. How did you decide your price point? Right now is a really good time to talk about that as well, because we're in a world where there are so many brands, they won't name names, but who are brass based, which is a high allergen. I'm hypoallergenic myself. So every single thing I make is stainless steel, which also enables me to stay at my price point. You know, we've kind of talked about this having to raise prices, trying to stay where we are. And I think, you know, even this economy where people are struggling to find a more affordable brands, I want to be that attainable luxury. I want you to wear a piece that, you know, looks crazy expensive and the quality is there, and doesn't cost $100 a piece. I've always wanted people to be able to stack for under like $200. You could buy two rings and necklace, like I just want you to have it. I want to get it in your hands, and I want you to enjoy it truthfully. Like I care about my customer so much. I feel that. Yeah, I personally, it's so funny because I in another lifetime, I will have a jewelry brand, but not this lifetime. But so I'll just, I'll just like literally buy your stuff, or feel like I get to be a part of it through this podcast. But I love it because I think especially for women who are getting in like really into jewelry, and they're like, Oh, there's, there's that next level to like really make me feel elevated or elevate my outfits. What's so nice about yours is you can go and get a bunch of stuff to complete a really good look, but not feel like, Oh, I can, I love this, but I can only get one thing. And a lot of times, if I'm being honest, like, I can't tell the difference between some of this super high quality stuff that I bought, meaning like some of the real jewelry I have bought, and where it's like the gold or the diamonds or whatever. Now, like Moise and I, and things are so popular, but like even those are still a really high price point, like you're dropping, you know, 1000 to 3000 to 4500 for maybe a necklace. And I'm holding them like by each other and cannot tell the difference, right? Like even on your skin and how it feels totally. So that's been really interesting for me because I've been going down this jewelry, like exploration, like really hard for the last year. And I've come to the conclusion, I like buying more stuff. Correct. Yes. Oh my gosh, so true as well, because like the trends come and go quickly. And I try to stay ahead of all of it, but I really try and keep a classic core collection of things that you'll always go back to in your jewelry box. Totally. So I've just, that is how we tell you guys, I have some very expensive stuff in my jewelry box. And yet I still put on, it's kind of like the three same rings of yours. Yes. Because they fit really good. They never ever make my finger another color. Yes. I always get compliments on them. Like they're unique enough, you know, where they're just like, Oh, what is that piece? Yeah. So I tell my customer for traveling, like leave your stuff at home. Exactly. We've had so many experiences with that person where I'm like, I will never be taking like my anything, all any of my heirlooms. That's why I recreate them. We have so many custom pieces I've made for Jinnocoro that have been off of like an heirloom from my grandma or something like that that I will now take. I'm like, I'd rather lose the $100 item than the $10,000 item. Oh, for sure. Be smart when we travel. And even living in LA, wearing things out. I'm just being honest. Absolutely. Yes. You know, wearing things out in the world. Yes. Okay. So I want to hear about where you're at right now in the company. What have been some of the biggest struggles that you've gone through? I think, as you know, being a business owner, there are so many struggles and positives. I think every single day is so different, you know, because  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, like I care about it so much. And until we start a family, it really is our baby. So I'm just like every little thing matters. Every email, every DM, I look at everything. If there is ever an issue with something, I am always super attentive. I'll literally take the item off of the website, check it out, ask production, what's going on. So that's been a really big hurdle for us that we've had to overcome is just that like, at the end of the day, we can't always control every aspect. I think one this past year that we've overcome is we've put a lot of marketing out there and as our brand is growing and getting so much bigger even in just this last year, we've had to get a warehouse that ships all orders out because we were like chained to the desk, having to like ship orders. Were you doing the order still? My partner and I were. You were. Yes, so this past year, for the last year, we have had a warehouse doing it for us. And in the beginning, it was super nice. I'm like, wow, we have time to design and do all the creative things that light me up and that I love. But girl, yeah, we figured out fast. Nobody cares about the business like we do. And I think when you're like at the volume that we are, even one little order mistake for me is huge. Like if you didn't clip a thread on a hat or if there was something missing, God forbid, like that is a huge deal for us. And so, you know, we've taken it back on since because there was just too many discrepancies. We're doing it. We're back on it doing it. We did get a house, a three bedroom home. So now we have. So you have your shipping room? Yeah, we have a shipping room where. They got the products are small. We literally don't do shoes or something. I think sometimes people think we're like a Nordstrom. Yeah. I'm like, no baby, this is me. Like you're talking to me right now or my man, you know? But we take it very, very serious. And thank God we have now over 505 star reviews in the past like year since taking it over. And I think it was just that difference of, you know, we care and we have had so many conversations, but it gets lost in the sauce and they work for so many other brands. It's hard to get the same attention to detail. You know, nobody's ever gonna care for your baby. Like you do. Is there a point where you know you're gonna have to go out of that though? 100%. Yeah. 100%. It's just like, he's so valuable to me in so many other ways in the business that it does take him away or the first three hours of the day will be, you know, let's get these orders out next day. Because we take a lot of pride in like next or same day shipping, which is one of the reasons why our brand's grown so big. So it's incredible, but a lot of work. Yeah, no, it's not for the faint of heart. No. You work super, super hard. Luckily, you know, part of our revenue comes from in person pop ups, which I love more than life itself. Oh, I want to talk about that. Yeah. Because that is something that I admire about you. I feel like when people have a product, like truly getting out there and building community, I can already, you know, you talk so much about how much you love community. I want to talk about all of the pop ups that you do, how frequently you do them, why you do it, and how people can apply that to their brand. I truly attribute it to how I grew up and my mom being so outwardly social with her business and building this huge community. Yeah. That because I grew up in it, for me, it was like a second nature. Like never nervous, not, I've never, I've never been that girl to be like, oh, it's so awkward or cringe. I'm like, cringe, never heard of her. Like I'm just doing it. I love it. Totally. It seriously lights me up. Like even for someone who's never heard about the brand to walk up to my physical booth and be like, oh my God, wait, this is $40 or whatever, like that is the juice of life for me that I can supply someone with a little bit of happiness to their day, even though it's just jewelry. For me, it's like I'm extending a little piece of self-expression into your life. And, you know, I've had some incredible friends who have supported me through pop ups. My good friend Erica, she has a brand in shop 1111 and she does these soirees, these pop ups called shop small soirees. And through those, I built such a huge community of people. There's hundreds of vendors and who are now all like good friends of mine. That's been really incredible. So people just flock and come out and it's such great community and the people there are just like family now, literally. That's been so incredible for us. So we do that. We do Rose Bowl every month, which is a very nitty gritty market. We get there at like 4 a.m. But we see like 20K people a day. Oh my God. It's incredible exposure. I love meeting all the people. Like we'll have a little line sometimes and I'm just like my man will be bringing them up. And I'm like, hi, hi, that's a picture. Let me put a hand chain on you. It's so fun. Oh, what types of businesses do you recommend for pop ups and things like that? A lot of the vendors there either sell antiques, furniture, jewelry or clothing. Around the section that I'm in the very front section, right when you walk in, but I've also been selling there for seven years. So you have to like kind of earn your spot there a little bit. But the vendors around my area are all small businesses. So mostly clothing, some jewelry, some like vintage is just a total, it's like the best thing ever. People travel really far to come to the Rose Bowl. It's an incredible swap meet. It takes you like a solid five hours to get through the whole thing. So it is really fun. I'm always like, can I step away for like 20 minutes and go do my own little shopping? Yeah, I wanna go see everything here. I know that's such a great time. That's so fun. Okay, so you had mentioned that you'd lived in Bali. Yes. You had told me you did 30 days of silence as well. Yes. And then I know you have some, like you're into, you're like a woo girl like me, which I love. Yeah. So I would woo. Yeah, very woo woo. I love it. I feel like that, I feel like it just makes business so much better, easier. Oh my gosh. Because business can be very challenging as we both know. And you can get so into like the strategic brain. And we forget that sometimes we have to like clear it all out to remember what works for us and what our skill set is, which clearly you're such a community builder. I'm a community builder as well. And it's so easy to forget that that's actually what can be the secret sauce. And so I would love to hear, first of all, I kinda wanna hear about you living in Bali. And then what prompted the 30 days of silence? Because here you told me, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're great. You had told me, you're like, I don't put you up and I'm like, no, you're really great. You've got a great flow to your stories. So 30 days of silence, but you love to talk. Like why? Hey, Bali and then that. Literally the hardest thing I've ever done you guys. So that was a phase where I was previously living in Australia. I lived in Australia for a year out of high school. It was like my gap year. Okay, what was that just for fun? Knew nobody. Moved to Australia, lived in Sydney and then moved to Byron Bay to work for a brand called Spell and the Gypsy Collective, who I'm still a dear friends with. They saw them at stagecoach with a great time. Like those girls are incredible, but there are two sisters who started a brand there and they took a chance on me. And I became like an in-store stylist for them. So that was my first look into styling. That's wild. Isn't it crazy? It's so fun. Would literally show up to work with like salty, sandy hair, no shoes, like hippie to the max. Imagine like Abbott Kinney, but like all zero. It was just like the cutest little town. Surfed there, like just so incredible. Made so many cool friends. Then moved to Bali after my year there and got a visa to be there for three months for a yoga teacher training, which was incredible. Part of it was the silence. So it was silent in the morning before 8 a.m. and then sober as well for 30 days, which at the time it was like 19. So that's like really hard for a 19 year old. Like what? Yeah. But anyways, so I remember I lived with this local guy on his rice patty field, literally, for like $20 a night in Bali when I was going to school and would be on my way to school. Hi mom, love you so much. I'm supposed to be silent right now, but I'm on my way to class and like I'm doing really like, just crazy, but so fun. Learned so much I think just about myself. That was like a really big healing era for me after Australia and it was just very, a very like inward time. And just, I think when you're by yourself and you travel alone, you don't have anyone you're, you know, being dependent on and you're just really by yourself, teaches you so much about you. And I'm so blessed that, you know, I am the kind of person that like, I feel like I can go anywhere and make a friend. I mean, the first day there I had like six girls. I was like, let's go babes. Like we just did everything together. I'm with such a group, but a really cool chapter and period that taught me a lot. What would you say that that, you know, during that time, because being alone, that's kind of, that can be really scary for a lot of people. Different country. Yes. Not like understanding where to, necessarily even where to go, get your stuff, like all of the basic life things that are hard. Or I mean, that, that seem easy that people forget about, but are hard there, you know? So what are the things that you would say if you could define that chapter in your life, if Australia was a chapter? Yeah. And then if Bali was a chapter, what would those two chapters be called or about? I would say Australia would be escapism. And Bali would be internalizing. What were you escaping from in Australia? I think a lot of things in my like late teens, you know, I moved to Hollywood Boulevard when I was like a very, or my older teens when I was 18, but like that was a very experimental, crazy, wild chapter of my life. That had to be wild. Wild. Yeah. Like I lived with my best friend at the time and she was in a, or still my best friend, but she's in a band. So I was like doing burlesque for her band at night. Like just the craziest stuff you've ever heard. And the stories I could tell, but no, take it to the grave. Or a book. Or maybe a book someday without a name. Later. Later. But you know, just like having all of that craziness and then kind of going to a different place and really kind of doing the same thing, but in a different country with people who I didn't know and like being really open, like can basically be whoever you want when you go into a different country. And I think I was also still finding who that was. For sure. So maybe we renamed that chapter as finding yourself. And I think that's, that really did it for me. That and Bali was like a very, very solid year. I came back with, you know, two feet on the ground and was like, okay, I needed that. What made you want to go internal? I know I had a very crazy kind of three year period in my life, but it got too crazy for me. And that's what made me find all of the things. That's what made me kind of figure out personal development and trying to deal with my anxiety and all the different things that I struggled with. Absolutely. Was there a tipping point for you that made you want to internalize or was it just like, like what was that? Because that's not that normal to go from that extreme to go like 30 days of silence, move to Bali. Like those are extremes. I did go through a very intense trauma when I was 18 years old at my place of work and the person, it's not something I talk about that publicly, but the person is in jail for the rest of my life. So I think that when you go through that kind of trauma where you genuinely think that your life may be over, when you go through that kind of an experience, you tend to live like that. And I'm grateful for it. I'm not the kind of person who looks back on it and is like upset or sad or triggered due to tons of years of therapy. But also, I owe a lot of my happiness to it because I have something to compare it to. I'm like, wow, life is very fragile and delicate. And so I think that going on those travels and those trips really made me, obviously there's some days where I was like, oh my God, did I do this way too soon? But luckily I have an amazing support to swim around me and was able to get through everything and be who I am because of it. It made me be like, wow, I'm such a lover of life. I really love what I do. There's not a minute to waste. That truthfully is a great way to put it for me. It's like just going through something traumatic in life will make you look back and be like, wow, we are so blessed. I'm so lucky to be doing what I love and it's all because of you. I had an experience where I wrote about it in my book but I was kidnapped in Mexico overnight and beaten and wasn't sure if I was gonna make it out of that experience. But I will tell you that if that wouldn't have happened to me, I don't know the trajectory that I would be on because two of my friends have overdosed. They're no longer with us. Like that I grew up with that I was on that path with. And so whenever I hear stories like yours, even when I meet some women, I'm like, oh, there's something there. There's something really magical about this person who gets it. Like they get life because they've probably seen a lot more than what people even realize. Absolutely. And so I feel like even when I met you, I was like, oh, there's something underlying that's very, she gets life. So it is like that old soul energy. And a lot of people say that too. And they meet me like, I had no idea that you were like this or whatever. And I'm raunchy, I'm loud, I'm funny. I'm a million things. But like it is because, you know, we've not let that experience stop us from living life. Like it has made me even more so like crazy or loud or all the things because I'm just like, wow, like I'm so lucky to be here and be doing what I love and like not wasted day. I don't waste a day. I literally have a tattooed on me. Like I am in it every single day doing what I freaking love. And I hope everybody can like see that and feel that. Oh, for sure. And I think it's such an inspiration what you're doing because it really is like going for it and being creative and just really loving on your community because I've had a lot of people sit in the chair that you're in and it's really easy to get overwhelmed and forget. And trust me, I get overwhelmed and I forget a lot. How do you stay tapped into your community? Like how do you stay in love with what you're doing? I truly think the pop-up spring, just like I was thinking that. Yes, like they've reserved me in like a coffee. It's literally like my daily coffee. I obviously don't go to pop-ups daily. I try to do it like eight to 10 times a month, which is still a lot. Yeah, I'm really trying to show up for like every different community that I've built. So I love nothing more than to like be set up and someone come by and be like, girl, it's been a week or it's been two weeks as I've seen you. Like that gives me that resurgence of like, cannot wait to launch the next session. So Teresa can see it. So Melissa can see it. Like I know you, you know, like I'm looking. I, my eyes are open to all the DMs and comments like I said before, like I'm so a part of what I do. And I hope, you know, I want to be the fabric of what is your new carol. And so for the future, you know, someone else helps me take it over or whatever. When we do start a family, I want it to always feel like that. With my company right now, the one thing that I'm working on is getting back in community because it was really easy to, I think in certain phases of your business, like probably when you're in creation mode or when you have to kind of go internal or where there's a big internal, like I've had a big internal team revamp. It's like you go inside the business for a bit, which can kind of make you feel disconnected from your people. Totally. And so I'm in this phase where I'm just talking with Kaylee and she's my brand coordinator. And like, I have to get back out in community. Like it is my, it is literally my DNA. I'm like, I have to remember the why. I have to go talk to the people. I have to go get excited. I have to go create things like. It's just, it's about the people. Like you have to tap back in. And then to what you just said, the creation, right? Like I did that shoot for you. So we do every single aspect of the brand. Like my hands have touched it. If you've seen it on a platform, my hands have personally touched it. Like all of our shoots, the models, the styling that I do for everything, that is my true spark. Like that is me, you know, I am a stylist through and through. Like that will always be who I am. Bringing jewelry to the table of that is so special for me, but being able to fully like, from start to finish to all of our productions is really like a zinger for me. This Friday we have our holiday shoot. So I'm like, I cannot wait. You know, there's so many things and details and tiny little Easter eggs that you guys may never even see. But like to me are so crucial and important to it. So that, and then also like you said, being a creative, I constantly need to be using my right brain. So we launched something and I'm immediately like, if not the day after like, cool, I'm onto the next month or the next three months, like immediately into creation mode before I, you know, settle back in to like launch day. What are some rituals around creation for you? And do you ever dry up? Oh my gosh, I dry up all the time. Okay, but, tell me what you do. We keep it juicy. Yeah, I'm like, it's the pop-ups that keep me like in that, in that juicy area of like, I can't wait for the next one. And also hearing people's feedback of like, oh my gosh, I want more small earrings or this and that. So that really is a constant feed for us. It's really good for us to hear that, all of that feedback. Then as far as creation, we have three dogs. So I would say, oh my gosh, I love nothing more than to be like in a gorgeous bathtub with like candles on and like a YouTube playing and like all the little board, like drawing on canvas or something. Everything is like, for the most part, all of the hats are fully hand designed by me. The jewelry, we're actually stepping into all hand designing. Some of it is manufactured, but we're trying to switch it all to being hand designed. So honestly, creativity is so wild. Like my partner is used to a corporate environment. He now is on the brand full time, but he's used to very much nine to five. Okay. Last night, I think we were up till 2 a.m. I'm like, Randomly creative. Creating, talking. Randomly creative, am I talking? No, I mean, what were you up till 2 a.m. doing? Just like being creative, talking like about the brand. Literally, I'll be on Pinterest. I had like 5,000 boards on there of like next spring or next summer, like whatever it is, just like constantly seeing things that inspire me on there. That's a huge source of inspiration as it is for everybody. I try not to do too much scrolling on TikTok, but sometimes I find like cool old school branding ideas that I love on there, but I am really inspired by just like vintage, I'll watch old movies, you know, like a lot of like old school style that is like makes this resurgence and people are like, wow, I'm like, they did in the 60s or you know, it's just that kind of stuff really inspires me. I try and stay out of like a lot of the new, you know, like I said, I try not to be on my phone as much as I have to or follow trends. I really want to keep it a classic brand for, you know, core pieces that, you know, you're going to want to give to your granddaughter or daughter. And that's always been the base of my brand. My brand is actually my middle name. I love you blast this. So, Genica is my middle name and it's my two grandmother's names combined. And my brand, the jewelry itself was inspired by my grandmother has given me a ton of like her fine jewelry and I've recreated a lot of those pieces. Oh my gosh, are they still around? Oh yeah. So they get to see it, you get to, do they get to wear it? Oh my gosh. Every Christmas I'm like, here's your haul, here's your junior girl. This is yours. It's so fun. No, she loves it. She's always showing up to like the family event with a new thing. She's like, look at me, new necklace. Oh my God. How? Copy and paste. Okay, so you work with your partner. Tell me about that evolution. I work with my partner on certain things. We used to work together all the time. Then we had to like not work together for a while. And now we know our roles. So now we're great working together just in very clear roles. So tell me about the evolution of him coming to work for your brand and how it's going. Wait, I have to pick your brain after the podcast about this then. I did not know that. So my partner worked in a corporate environment for most of his life. I think last year was finally the turning point is before we moved into our new house. And we were just kind of like, he could see that, I had a small team of people who weren't so about necessarily at what they did, but just more individuals who like, I was kind of paying here and there, nothing like extremely consistent. And I knew I wanted to grow in the brand and the business obviously. And I needed someone like full throttle. So it was just the right timing. I was like, how do you feel about stepping into this role? In the beginning, he was just kind of a little bit of everything. He's based in finance, but has become our full time, like not content manager, but our marketing manager for sure. He handles all like our advertising, customer service, shipping, like keeping me in check and in line. But his main goal is really to support me so I can be as creative as I wanna be in my role, which is my dream. Like I would love to just do the creation, the content, the in-person pop-ups and like call it a day. Although I do love responding to emails too, because a lot of them are super positive. It's very rare that we get something, is mainly shipping issues, which we've now resolved. So it's all fun for me, but he takes on a lot of the, like financial aspects of things that it's a taxes. And I was like, what? Like thank God. Q what? Yeah. Q for what? No, I have to know about the things I love. I love learning from him. He's a constant source of information for me. He's always, I mean, we have in our house, there's a podcast running 24 seven. Love that. We do not have silent space. Like even sleeping, he saves with your pods in. I'm not kidding. I'm like, what the? I could never. I'm like full of like blackout earplugs, this like, mask, I have to have it silent. But he is constantly ingesting information. And I think for both, I mean, he went to school for that. I did not. So, you know, I've learned so much through him. And we're seeing huge growth with, you know, everything he's implemented. I think I was thinking a little smaller. And now I'm thinking way larger. Like I have such high expectations for the brand and for myself. Because I know we're capable. We just gotta, you know, keep going. And even this year, we've seen such crazy growth. It's like, wow, the fact that it's only been a year and we are where we are just is crazy to me from like kitchen table. I know. I'm so excited. I can't wait. And I'm just also trying to stay in the present because I know I'm going to miss this phase when we're on to the next. So it goes back to me just being like, okay, enjoy this. Yeah, totally. Not going to be long here. Enjoy this. Have there been any arguments between you guys with work stuff? Oh my God. It's funny because like- Please tell me. Yeah, I'm like, if you meet us. Yes. If you meet us in person and you're like, everybody's like, you guys are just the perfect like combo. I'm so outgoing. And he's, we're the people like at the party who when we walk in, we go into the separate parts of the room because we're just like, both want to have our own social, you know? Meet up and I'm like, hey babe, like it's perfection as far as that goes. And then in the business, I think I am a little bit more of an avoidant for the things that I don't want to deal with. Right? And he's more of like, let's tackle this immediately and try and like move on. So I've learned that's obviously the best case scenario, but absolutely there are days where we're down each other's throat in the best way though. We're on the same team. We want the same things. And I think, you know, at the end of the day, that's the most important, but like, we've also been really good about, you know, he's never worked with anybody besides being in a corporate environment. Yeah. And since I've been in this business for almost seven years now, and I've had to work on separating my personal time and my business time, which is nearly impossible for a founder, you know? Yeah. I've had to try and implement that in the relationship as well. So I'm like, babe, like we have to have the time where sometimes I'll say, hey, can I talk to my boyfriend right now? Because it really is that kind of awareness. And you know, yeah, it really is just an awareness that you bring into the room by saying, hey, I need to talk to my boyfriend for a minute. Or it's 10 at night and I'm still creating, but I'm like, hey, can I just like cuddle with my boyfriend? Or, you know, cause we will talk about business in bed. Totally. Okay, same. I'm like, wait, let's shut it off now. Let's be done. And there are days where truthfully I will wake up, like a lot of weekends I do a pop-ups Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, I really need to recharge and just be like with the dogs, go on walks, go to the beach, wash the sunset, like just absolutely decompress. And he's really good about, you know, just slightly bringing up, be like, hey, is this a good time? I really need your help on this one thing. But like he does everything else to try and not ask me, which I really appreciate. Cause it's that that makes a huge difference. Right? He's like, hey, I've exhausted all options, but at the end of the day, I do need your advice on this. And I'm so happy to give it because it's all valuable things. You know, he's insanely smart and I'm super lucky. Did you guys have to work on that communication? Or do you think you learned it pretty quick? Like was he already pretty communicative? Or like my husband and I, we did not learn right away. It was like he came from like boiler room style finance world where it was just like bro culture. The quickest way to a point, there's no thought of consideration of feelings or emotions or how things could be going. So everything was just like, why are you doing that? What, you need to be doing this. We need more sales over here, this or that. So I and I just shut down. And so there was a lot of learning the back and forth of, hey, when you talk like this, this is what happens. Did you guys have to do that? Or do you think he came in pretty like open to how you work? I think it was helpful that I've always worked from home for the most part. So he's already seen and he knows the way that I communicate. It's part of the reason why we fell in love. I'm the very open communicator. I like, I'm the kind of person I can't have conflict for even a minute. I'm like, wait, can we talk this out really quick? That's so good. And so, and like partly to therapy, obviously, and how I grew up and everything, my parents are very communicative as well. So that's huge. Yes. That is like woven through why you're so successful. Like I can see it. I can feel it because nothing will stew underneath. I can't possibly, like it is like an allergic reaction for me. I've always been that way. I'm very, what's the opposite of avoidant. Yeah. I'm like, let's talk about it right now before I leave the room. I literally cannot let it go. It's literally huge because there won't be problems that mount up, which is why people have breakdowns, which is why people lose their business, their relationship, their friendships, because there's always resentment that comes when you're not having a conversation that needs to be had. So that is like so powerful. I want people to grasp that you're just like, I can't fucking not talk about something. Yes. So I think he was all already like that in our relationship. Yeah. Even if there was like small conflict in our relationship with the banding, just normal stuff that couples go through. He realized I'm the kind of person who's like, OK, let's tackle this tonight. Right now, what can we do to make this better? What can I do? How can I change? Or what can you do to change? Just being very aware as well, self-aware. So I think those were big pieces. But yeah, it's like everybody. We're not perfect. But I'm very, very lucky. We're definitely in a circumstance where we really get each other. He really can see it in my eyes when I'm like, OK, I'm done for the day. Or like for today, for instance, we're doing this podcast. And then I'm going home and doing a live for a sale. And I had a pop up yesterday, day before and day before. But he could tell him in my flow. Like I love it. I'm so happy. And I'm always loving what I do. But there are definitely times where it's like 11 o'clock at night. And I'm like, OK, let's just have a martini and be boyfriend and girlfriend now. It's really hard for a lot of people to put it to bed, especially after even if you've had a bad day or even a good day. I'm like, let's just not talk about it at all. Which is, yeah, it's hard. How do girlfriends come into play for you for like support in your life? Oh, my gosh. Well, I have so many different sets of girlfriends. Because I went to that performing in our high school. So those girls are always be like my sisters. Yeah. And that's been so important for me. I've always had them. I made a couple of best friends in my late 20s. And then recently, we just moved to Long Beach and I've met more girlfriends out there. And so I just had my birthday party like two weeks ago. And all my groups got together. And that is the best feeling for me. And so fun. It's also important because some of my girlfriends are in this business or they're influencers or whatever they're doing. It's like that's been really helpful for me because we can kind of be a sounding board for each other as far as advice and what each other knows versus what you don't know. So every time we hang out, even if it's just like over martinis, we're going to talk about it. Which is nice for me because it's a different person than my partner. And they're not invested equally. They're just kind of being from an outsider's perspective, what they would do. But it's been so phenomenal. It's been so great. They always support every launch. Everybody posts. Everybody talks about it. I'm so blessed with good friends who see my energy and truly meet it. It's like life changing, I think, for growing a business. Like just having people who get it. Totally. Who understand when you're like, sorry girl, I'm in hustle mode, but I can meet you here quick or I can do that. Or hey, I need some help around this launch. Or could you post this? Like just having that is life changing. What would you say to an entrepreneur who's listening, who wants to start something like this, but maybe is a little freaked out, doesn't know where to begin? I would say there is no time like today to start. I always think like you should take up space. Even if it's a saturated market, I hear that from so many people like, oh, there's so many clothing brands, there's so many yoga wear brands. And I'm like, but they're not you. They are not you. There's millions of jewelry brands, but they're not me.  and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, in your story and truly believe in who you are and your business. So I would say to all entrepreneurs, like nobody's you. So why not go for it? You know, like if it's truly what you love, I will say, if it's not something you love, it's not going to do well. I believe that through and through. Like I can see the inauthenticity in some people's environments. I'm just like, if you just sold something else, what did something else that you really loved? Cause you're incredible. You know that it would be, it would do so well. It would just do so well. And that I could say that to myself, you know, working in retail, like, babe, if you just put yourself in a different room or you just started your own thing, but, you know, there's always factors. Obviously you have to pay rent. You have to do what you have to do. But even just doing it in that, you know, you have a nine to five, even doing it from five to nine when you get home and saying, like, I'm going to set aside these four hours to invest in myself because that's what you're doing. You know, at the end of the day, working for yourself is the ultimate. So it's my dream. It's always been my dream and I've seen it, you know, in my whole family. And I'm like, I can't, I have to choose this. It's incredible. It's an incredible way to live. It's also a very hard way to live, right? Cause you're constantly clocking yourself and trying to yourself, but it's also showing up for yourself and your dream. If you have a passion, I don't think you ignore that. You've got one life. Yeah. I feel the exact same way. I'm like, I literally can't imagine dying with all the things I, all the ideas that I have inside of me. I'm such a creator. Yeah. No, is it ever hard for you? Well, I think, I think you have a brand where you can go and, you know, you can, you create hats, you have, you know, jewelry, you have, do you have any other accessories outside of hats and we are going to be launching a new category in the coming years. So definitely stay tuned. Okay. Exciting. I just want you to go to be a place where like your man, your kids and you could all go shopping, right? So when we introduced the hats, we brought like a huge male clientele to the website and first that and everything. And that's been so great for us because I'm always like, you know, you've got the wife and the husband in the booth and I want to be able to give to everybody. So yeah, it's been really great so far. We're like a one-stop shop for that, but we are, yes, expanding into a new category, which I'm very excited about. I just really want to be able for you to get, you know, if it's a Christmas, I want you to get all your gifts in one place and you like be able to trust the quality. So you feel like that your creativity can kind of all fit under that umbrella. Absolutely. Yeah. I love that. Where do you want to see Jena Carreau in a year? What's like a big dream in a year? Is it on someone? Is it in somewhere? Is it? What are they? I would say there are a couple of people who we're speaking to right now that have been on my vision board for a very long time and I won't name names, but I hope to bring them to fruition in the new year as far as online stores and their majors. So that would be really huge for us. As of now, we're in available in like 42 stores nationwide, which is huge. And I've done that all just by like cold outreach, which has been great or just because of our socials or they've seen us somewhere. But yes, definitely just expanding into more stores and more areas. Like the fact that we're not in Texas or in New York is crazy to me. So working on expanding in different states so you guys can shop in person more and not just online because really feeling the product, seeing it, trying it on, feeling the quality of the jewelry. Yeah, actually, it's huge. Totally. Yeah. I was not sure when I ordered online. Yeah. Because I'm like, it looks amazing. Yeah. And then I got it and I was like this. I get so many compliments on it. I love that. Yeah. I get so many compliments. I am obsessed, especially honestly. This, um, what is it called? The rodeo ring. I don't know. Everybody. Yeah. I would say that was a collapse. I'd say in the new year, definitely harping on more collapse. Yeah. So a lot of people in our inbox who I'm excited to work with. So, so. I think to forward to. Yes. So where can we go? Where can we get it? I know you have some really exciting stuff coming up. Tell us all the things. You guys, every time I want your collection and like, no, wait, this is really the best launch. It really has been like, it just keeps getting better. I'm very, I'm a huge fan. Yeah. It's huge fan. Thank you. I'm like, our product has never been better. Our quality control is crazy. Like I always wear something for like a month beforehand. I'm wearing like, here's a little Easter egg. I'm wearing like five new things here. But if I don't sweat in it, wear it in the water. It's not ready for you. So I'm like fully test everything out and all this stuff is so great. So we're doing a massive Black Friday Cyber Monday sale. We're kind of toying around with the idea of doing like a different item on sale for like 12 days of December, which I think we'll do. So fun. And then our big launch is TBD. It's going to be right after Black Friday, I believe, or right before it. So you'll have to look out for it. And then we'll have a special discount if you guys watch the podcast. Yes. I'm so excited. You guys can scroll down to see all of that in the show notes. So you can just click on the links below there. I have everything lined up in the show notes, but I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you so much for having me. I'm so grateful to be in a room with someone like you. It is just magical and we're so like minded, I feel like. So it's just such an organic. I know. We'll have to do a part two. I'm like, let's do it. I know we almost drank on this one, but I was like, you know what? Let's do this first and then maybe leave part two round to the deeper. Yeah, we'll do that with my team. OK, sounds good. Well, I'm so grateful for you. Thank you again for coming on. Thank you so much.

=== FILE: The 10-Minute Rule to Make Any Habit (Finally) Stick with Robin Long [_PvqQcSOS0k].txt ===

 I was just exhausted and I'm like, you know what, I could sit here and stare at the screen and try to pound this out, or I could go lay down, recharge, and either come back better tomorrow or come back better this afternoon. When you get to that place where you're pushing and you're not creative, you're fooling yourself. You're not doing good work and you're actually not doing any work. If you looked at what you did in the last five hours, you're like- Exactly. I've been learning that. What did I do? It actually is not productive work, anyways. You're going to be able to do double the next day because you actually gave yourself some room. Robin, welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you. I'm so excited to be here. This is so fun. I just got to have you as a speaker at our elite entrepreneur mastermind. You and I go way, way back. We go back to 2018, Lewis House Mastermind. Shout out to Lewis House. Shout out to Lewis. That's wild to think about. It's wild. We talk about that mastermind all the time because of who was in that particular group, not just that year, but it was the couple years surrounding. I think he did it for three years, maybe four. We were in it for, I think it was in it for two or three. I can't remember. Chris was in it for three for sure. We talk about how that group that we met is still in our life, or a lot of them have popped off. We had, within those years, I can't remember if it was the same year as us. It was like Jenna Kutcher, Jasmine Star, Bill Glazer, who we still talk to and work with, who's helped me with my fund raise multiple times. I would have never been able to launch my company without him. There were so many pivotal people that we met. There were a lot of other ones in there too who are great, but you just find your people whose energy you click with. They stay in your life. It's been so much fun that you and I have been able to stay in each other's lives. We've traveled to Europe. I know. I know. It's been a great European trip. I know. It's been one of those things that I'm like, oh, Chris and I were reflecting after the mastermind that you guys had just spoke at a few months ago. I was like, they are just really solid people that we're so lucky to have. We may not get to talk to each other all the time at all. But I feel like we get to show up for each other. I really feel like I'm like anything that the longs need, I am like, what do you guys need? Please tell me. I love it. It's a pleasure. It's just like a life pleasure to be friends with you guys. It really is. Thank you. You're such an incredible human. We're going to talk about this, but you're a mother of four children. You lead a very busy life. You're such a role model for so many people. That was another reason we wanted to have you in the mastermind is we wanted a one woman who is also not just a role model in business, but we really love to bring people in who like they're making it happen in their family. And while I know you're like, okay, sometimes it feels like we're not making it happen. Like you really are making it happen in the most beautiful way. So we're going to dig into that as well. But I'm so excited to share the story of what you've done because you have one of the largest online Pilates communities. You've had this for a while and you like this is insane what you've been able to create. I believe you're at or beyond 25,000 members. And I know that's been like, I know how many people that you have had on there. I don't even know what that number is. But this is what you have like monthly, which is like that is. Sorry, we're just going to break for a while. I'm not even letting her talk yet because you guys have to understand who we're about to open conversation with. So that just, it does not happen. It's so rare that that happens. Like I could, I could count on one hand the number of people who have communities like this who just roll so deep with you. So we're going to dig into what has made this like incredible community that's so heart centered. What has gone into that? My friend calls it a love brand. What has gone into something that is just like such a beautiful brand and how have you been able to, you know, sustain that with your health, your life, your family, the ups, the downs, all the things. So, okay, I want to dig into that. So your company is called Lindy. Well, I want you to tell me a bit about how that all began for you. Yes. So I've been doing this for about 12 years. So when you think about the depth of our community and the size of our community, I just think of gosh, it's been 12 years of pouring in and building. And for me, I started as a Pilates instructor. So teaching in equinox in private studios. I started teaching out of my home. Totally if you've ever been a fitness instructor, you know, you just teach anywhere and everywhere. You can't take any hour of day, you know, I'm waking up a little scrapped. Give them to me. Yeah. Oh, totally. I'm at the park trying to get like people showing up for park lessons, you know, anything you can do to try to. I was behind the tree at the park watching you. I was doing your class. I'm just kidding. Right. Totally. You do anything and everything. So I was doing that for a long time, really trying to build that business. And I think that gave me a lot of great experience of what it looks like to build a clientele, build a business. And that's where I learned customer service, right? How do I actually connect with my clients and create meaningful relationships with them so that they come to me for Pilates versus anyone else out there who may have more experience or maybe at a better time slot than I was, you know, so it started there. And when I was in the fitness industry, I started to realize my unique approach and that I wasn't really necessarily fitting in in the fitness industry in the same way I felt like everyone else was. My journey for Pilates and wellness really was born out of years of being really unhappy with my body and really actually beating up my body and trying to fix my body, wishing it was different, restricting my food, like unhealthy in so many ways. I resonate when I say, yeah, so many women do for sure. So many women do. And even if even if they don't say it out loud, we all have this kind of journey we've been on with our bodies over the years and our thoughts and how we relate to our body. So for me, Pilates was very healing and it actually helped me to transition out of some of those unhealthy habits and into seeing exercise as a way to care for myself, as a way to reconnect with my body as a way to build strength, do all of those fitness things that I care about, but do it in a way that wasn't about punishment or just focused on calorie burn. So that was overflowing into my clients and how I was training them and recognizing, gosh, the transformation that they have when they start to make this shift into reconnecting to their body, befriending their body, truly caring for their body and what does that actually look like? I realized, you know, that's not the norm in the fitness industry, right? Most people are there to just burn calories, you know, leave it all out on the floor, just like crush themselves to then be able to go eat calories and then come back and do it all again. So that's where some of it started and I started realizing, okay, what am I going to do with this because I care about this so much, but I don't really fit into the traditional mold of fitness. And at the same time, I became a mom. And during that time, I also realized that, oh my gosh, my world just got flipped upside down. Yeah. I can't go to the typical Pilates class or a gym class or, you know, I have like this much time during nap time to get some work done and clean the house and, you know, maybe get a workout in and most of the fitness options at the time, and remember this was like a decade ago, were really hour long workouts. Totally. Some of them were even like two a day, like here's what we're doing girls and it was kind of hardcore. Oh yeah. And I realized I cannot do that and I feel really guilty about it and I don't know how to care for myself in this season and I can't be the only one. So that is when I started blogging about it, writing about it online, started putting YouTube workouts up for Pilates short 10 minute workouts, things like this that kind of spoke to the season that I was in and the struggles I was navigating. And then that is what has evolved into now what it is today, which is basically the same bones, but we've had a lot of evolution over the years too, even in terms of the name, the brand, the way we're delivering the workouts, but the core of really helping women reconnect with their bodies, do it in a way that is sustainable, works with real life, has stayed the same for more than a decade. So Pilates is definitely having a moment right now. First of all, I'd love to hear what you think of that, why you think that's happening. I mean, it was popular for a bit, but honestly, it wasn't popular all over. Like I'm from the Midwest and we were like, what the hell is Pilates? Totally. So why do you think that's happening now? What actually drew you to it back in the day? Like what made you just be like, this is it for me? Yeah. I remember my first Pilates workout and I remember coming out of the studio and just feeling like I have never felt this good physically. Wow. Like the stress melted away from my body. I didn't even realize the tension I was holding in my body until I took that Pilates class and the instructor guided me through how to release some of that tension in my body. So I got this like physical release of tension and stress, but at the same time, I got like a killer workout. You know, I felt new muscles that I didn't even know I had, but then I came out feeling energized versus feeling exhausted. Totally. And like I can't do anything for the rest of the day or like you need a nap. Totally. I had that for sure. And I used to go be like, oh my gosh, I just worked out so hard. I am going to get a Venti Frappuccino and then I'm going through the drive through. Like that was my work. 10 years ago was so good. 15 years ago. That was what I was like. I crushed it in my workout and then I would like be starving and then I'd go do that. And then this was kind of the cycle I was in, which actually wasn't a very healthy cycle for me. So Pilates, remember noticing I walk out or when I finish a workout, even at home or wherever, I was like, oh, I feel like I got a great workout, but I feel energized. I feel steady. I feel like I can go into the rest of my day with more intention than like instead of being exhausted and just kind of tweeted. So that was for me one of the big differences. And then I noticed how much stronger I was getting. And I wasn't even like killing myself, you know, in the workouts, I was like, wow, I remember feeling new muscles and being like, I have more control. I have less stress. And one of the reasons I think it's picking up so much popularity now is we're starting to understand the importance of the nervous system and mindfulness and the power of the mind, body connection, especially for women, especially as you get into midlife and you're you know, you support your hormones at different levels. I think Pilates, people are finally starting to recognize how powerful it is in a way that is really supportive of women's health and then even for men too. It's not necessarily in the same way. They're focusing on their hormone levels in the exact same way, but the mobility, the posture, being able to do things for a long time, right? If you want to golf for many years, if you want to be a runner for many years, if you want to lift weights for years, having Pilates at the core is like a foundational form of exercise that will support you to do that. I think people are just realizing that. Oh my gosh. So from a long term, hardcore, hit training, soul cycle, high intensity, Monday, Wednesday, Friday workout, which I still do, I still lift Monday, Wednesday, Friday, but I will say so much has changed and flipped for me in the best way. So I've recently started going to Pilates. I've been out about maybe seven months, maybe six, I don't know, six to eight, enough to be life changing. I go twice a week and at first I was like, I mean, like this is recent. You know, I am a lifting girl and I was also, I ran for a long time, but then it was lifting and walking and that felt really good because I knew that my, like I just kept raising my cortisol with all of my workouts. And like you said, I didn't know how tired that was making me. I just thought everybody got tired at 3pm and needed an app. And as soon as I switched my workouts to stop doing these super high intensity things, I actually started eating less, like shockingly less. Like I used to be hungry all of the time because of my hit training and I was like, what's wrong with me? I'm ravenous. And the cravings. Yes. Cravings were insane. And then I was also just absolutely exhausted, like exhausted at 3pm every single day. So now I even, I do even train differently in my workouts because of this whole, like I think Pilates has introduced to me, like just lowering the cortisol and also enjoying the workout more. So even in my lifting workouts, I don't go as hard. I don't do as much like I'm actually doing like three quarters to half of what I used to do in one workout. And that actually feels so good. Like it's a little more slow. It's a little more intentional. I'm 44. And I used to literally make fun of people in their 40s because I'm like, you're not, you're not sore. I'm like, you just, you know, in your 30s, you just don't work out enough, you don't stretch enough and I'm like, oh shit, I'm sore. My neck is tight. And one of the things I've noticed is that Pilates to all the girls who are like, maybe anti Pilates on here, I'm telling you, if you're a workout girl at all, I have noticed how much better my lifts are. I feel so much stronger. I feel like I'm going to be able to do this forever. All the joints and muscles around like my knees, my hips, my back, things that were starting to hurt no longer hurt. I love to hear that. I feel younger in my body now than I did in my 20s. And I'm not even kidding you because of how like supported I feel like Pilates has made everything else. I love that you're saying that because I think the conversation often is Pilates or weights. Which should you be doing? Is Pilates really enough or weight training this? And really it's both. I think it's phenomenal to do both and what you're feeling and what you're describing is exactly what it should do for you. Just as Pilates used to say, basically you're only as old as your spine feels. Like basically, you know, so you're taking care of your body, your joints, your core, that power you're feeling when you're lifting that allows you to lift with more form and more intention. You can do what we talk about a lot at Lindy Well is doing less but with more intention. Right? Because you could spend and you've done this and I've done this, you could spend an hour and a half at the gym and get a great workout. Or you could spend 40, 30 minutes in there and be very intentional with your movements, making sure you're staying connected to your muscle and your movement, you're challenging yourself and get just as good of a workout is not better. So I love what you're hearing and how do you feel when you walk out of a Pilates class? Do you experience that same feeling that I felt of like just energized and like you can go take on your day? Always. And I think there's a beautiful, you know, I know that yours is online, but there's also a beautiful community aspect where I get to be in person, but also your community rolls deep. Like it's a really strong community. So I do think the gym is great and I do have a workout partners now, which is life changing, but I think Pilates communities roll pretty deep. And I think that's also really, really special, but I feel, I feel energized. I feel great in my body. Like you said, I feel you guys, I am a lifting girl through and through, but I have never felt so strong in my core and my back, which has changed so much feeling. And I've noticed, we'll say I'm just, I'm pushing hard on your app here because it is like my core looks the best it's ever looked ever. And I am like a, I'm a lifting girl. And I just thought I was like, this is as good as it's going to get. And I went and did Pilates for six months and I'm like, wow, like it's just different. Muscles you didn't even know. Totally different. Muscles you didn't even know existed, right? Yeah. You get to so many different layers of core strength and Pilates. So I love that you're experiencing that. Yeah. I like just preach about it to all my friends. I literally have a crew of like five or six that like that go to Pilates all the time. So I love it. Yeah. I'm so excited to talk to you too because Pilates, I really think is once you allow yourself to get into it because I think for high achievers. Yes. I was going to ask you that. It is hard to get into and it was hard for me. I had to be convinced. I had to take a few classes and then there was a weird addiction thing that happened. I don't know if you can explain that or tell me why this happened. Yeah. Yeah. Tell me, tell me your thoughts on, we have some high achievers listening to this. How do we convert them? So I'm right there with you. Yeah. And I'm in the classroom 3, like love to achieve, love to set goals, love a checklist, love a color-coded notebook. And that's actually what got me into trouble with my body. Yep. Same. Right. So this is a common theme among high achievers. So instead of thinking of it as, oh, you're dialing it back to do these sort of low-intensity workouts, I think that you need to think of it as being incredibly intentional to care for yourself so that you can actually continue doing the things you want to do in your career. The reality is, is our nervous system matters. And as entrepreneurs, as high achievers, we are often being stimulated all day long, right? We're putting out fires. We're leading people. We have challenges. We have to get on camera and film something really quick, then run to a meeting. We've got all kinds of things coming into our inbox each day that are spiking our cortisol levels and putting us in our adrenaline, go, go, go state of being. So when you then go to a workout that puts you into that same state of being, more cortisol, more adrenaline, burning out the body, that's when we can end up being depleted. And that's what was happening to me. I couldn't understand why I was feeling worse after my workouts, like less tired. But people say, exercise is supposed to energize you. I was feeling more tired. I was feeling exhausted. And as soon as I recognized the connection between what my workouts were doing to my nervous system and the nervous system state I was living in all day as an entrepreneur and a mama for, I mean, literally around the corner, someone screaming every two minutes, you know, it's like, it's not exaggeration. So I realized my workouts need to be supportive of that nervous system. And this is true for all high achievers. So thinking of dialing down the intensity and some of your workouts to really get yourself into a place where your body feels safe, where your body can slow down, you can breathe, you can quiet your mind a little bit. I think one of the most powerful things of Pilates is the concentration that it brings. It really is basically like a moving meditation because you have to be very present to every exercise, right? Your instructor is queuing you through how it should feel in your core, where your legs should be, where your hands should be, these tiny movements. So you spend that whole time during the workout focused on that and that alone while breathing intentionally, while moving your body, you're getting this sort of trifecta of meditation, movement and breath. And that's one of the best things you can do for your nervous system. So for our high achievers who just think they want to push, push, doesn't mean you can't push occasionally, have a hard gym day or high intensity workout, maybe one or two times a week if you're in a healthy spot, but making sure that you are also bringing your nervous system down is actually going to bring you better results physically, mentally, and so you can show up and do your job better as well. It's truly everything that you're saying around looking back at how I used to wake up and work out. It's just like every day I didn't feel complete or good about myself if I wasn't like hitting this certain exhaustion. And what actually had to make me change was starting my company in 2020 because my levels of stress went up so much and the capacity of holding newness every single day and I still feel like I am in that same state. I actually couldn't keep up with the workouts that I was doing. I remember feeling like I was failing and I was like, I have to find something else. And first I just went to walking, which really, really helped. I just needed that. I needed that in my life for a while. For sure. And now I'm like, oh, I want to go. And exactly like you said, there's something magical about the focus, especially for an achiever. Yes. I can still be intentional. I can still be getting better at something. You can still be challenging yourself. That's a misconception. You're bad every day at Pilates. It's not like you're going. You can get better. Exactly. It's actually, I think when you look at Pilates, it looks like you're just flowing through movements and you're doing it. You are still challenging yourself very hard. I'm like eight months in. Today I was like, wow, I'm like shaking all over. This is a new move. I don't know what I'm doing. As soon as you think you've got it, you push, you know, you push it harder and you're shaking again. So you never really master it. And I think for anybody listening, I do think there's really important seasons in your life to notice where maybe you've been stuck in a routine or ritual that you might think feels really good and you can't live without. But I believe for all of us, like to switch up your routine is one of the biggest gifts that you'll reflect back on at month two or three of giving it some time, switch up the routine for the brain. You're going to get new thoughts. You're going to meet new people. You're in a new space. You're in a new energy. You're just learning new things. It gives you so much more to talk about. You relate to. I know that you feel this way. So I can't wait to hear about your perspective because so much of my life runs parallel to things I've learned in fitness, like entrepreneurship. I'm sure for you parenting and what that looks like. How have you noticed for yourself, like what are some themes and Pilates that you have really noticed like run parallel to life of maybe how you learn things or how you've been challenged? Like, how does that help you look at life? That's a great question. Okay, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm going to share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bralette connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle bralette and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery, it's soft, it's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop Skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn you're happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo. The all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations, effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. Yeah, there's so many connections and similarities. I think of one of the core principles of Pilates is balance, which I know balance is a word where there's all kinds of feelings around it now of balance is possible, balance is impossible, balance is good, balance is bad. My company used to be called the balance life before we rebranded. And regardless of how you define balance, I think the misconception is that we think balance means all things perfectly balanced at all times. But Pilates is a great example of part of what makes Pilates so powerful is the balance between stretching and strengthening exercises, the balance between there's really a push and pull in every exercise, right? The opposition, you feel that you're stretching a leg out, but you're pulling your abs in or you're lengthening this way, but you're pushing that way. There's this tension that's a healthy tension and balance or even literal balance exercises. And what I love about that connection of balance exercises, if you think about when you're balancing, you're not standing perfectly still. You're actually wobbling, right? And that's a great thing. Your body is designed to wobble. You don't need to not wobble. That is how you hold your balance. And so when I think about that in terms of life and growing a business and all the things we're juggling each day is just kind of finding that tension point, whether it's day to day, whether it's in a season of life of kind of what does that balance look like for me now? Sometimes it is going to be like for you in the season that you're in, right? It's a lean in season. You're taking on big responsibilities, big tasks. You're really stretching yourself. It's a heavy carrying season. There are going to be other seasons where you're like, this is one where, you know what? I'm going to allow some breathing room until I do my next thing or until this next event happens. So I think it happens daily. I think it happens seasonally. And that's something that I really try to live within, not trying to find perfection, but just trying to find that kind of alignment and balance in the tension of life that we all experience. Why do you think this message and what you're talking about and what you're doing is resonating so deeply with women right now? Ellen, you know, we're not just talking about fitness. Yeah. And I think that's the biggest, maybe misconception or what people don't realize. Once you join or once you're in our community, you realize we're talking about so much more. And I think that's what resonates. So we're speaking to the heart of women, the struggles we've all had with our body over the years, the desire or I shouldn't even say desire. It is a desire, but it's the pressure to be smaller, be stronger, be less wrinkly, be more toned, be more thin. Right? We have this pressure on us as women. And at Lindy Well, we speak directly to what would it feel like to work from where you're at right now, accept where you're at right now? It doesn't mean we can't be trying to get stronger, get better, improve ourselves. We all want to become the healthiest version of ourselves, but what does it look like to give yourself grace over guilt and be kind to yourself? So we really talk a lot about self-compassion and how we embrace that is actually one of the best ways to promote change. So we often think that the more critical we are of ourselves, the more self-criticism, the more we beat ourselves up, the more likely we are to achieve our goals, to be more consistent with our workouts, to be more successful in business. But the research shows that actually self-compassion is one of the most effective tools to actually create change in your life and change that lasts. So we're bringing that into fitness. And I think when women experience what it feels like to extend self-compassion to themselves, often for the first time ever in their life, that's a big shift. And it frees you up then to exercise for different reasons, eat well for different reasons, take care of yourself for different reasons. And that's far more motivating than doing it for your inner critic and the self-criticism. It completely changes what it feels like in your life and how consistent and successful you'll actually be. Yeah, I'm listening to you and I think some people listening and I'm curious for you, did you have a period where it actually feels not right letting go of mean coach in your head? Like you're like, no, no, no, this worked for me. But mean coach has an expiration date. And so if it's not working anymore, it's because you've reached the expiration date and everything that you've said, just like we were talking about, runs parallel in business. Like I was able to mean coach myself for a while in business, like get more done, do this. Why didn't you do that? You lose, or like these things that we say in our head, or like, where did you like her? Like she's able to do it. All of these things, that does not work for me in the season. I cannot do it anymore. Like it actually where it used to work and it used to motivate me. Now it shuts me down. I think it's because I don't have the energy to even like be in whatever energy that was, whatever kind of like chaos cortisol energy that was. And now I'm in a season of like proud, like I'm talking to that little girl inside of me. I'm talking to like, wow, I'm so proud of.  what you're doing, this is a lot to hold. This is like what you asked for, but let's acknowledge how much this is. Most people aren't doing this. What do you need in this season to support you? Who do you need to call right now? Do you need an SOS friend? Do you need to collapse on your husband tonight? Do you need to tell him? What are you needing? And that's been just so insanely life-changing for me. I could never go back to mean coach around food, around business, around friendship, around how I look, all of those things. And so I love that you are, I hope for anyone listening, I understand, like Robin and I are sitting here fully understanding the, you feel so tied, like actually tied to mean coach, or to whatever you believe. Maybe it was a high school literal coach that someone's voice in your head, it can feel like you don't know who you are without that and that you won't be successful and that you're gonna gain weight and that you're gonna feel terrible and you're gonna be, you know, you're gonna lose your business or lose money. I promise you given enough time and enough, like being in someone's presence like Robin, like being coached around it too is so important. To rewire that, how long do you think that that, when people come in, what's a bit of an expectation around some rewiring? Cause do you get a lot of women who are coming from different workouts coming in? Oh yeah. Or like no working out at all? Oh yeah, a lot. Or just from years of starting and stopping. And then beating themselves up for not being able to be consistent. Oh that's huge. That's where so many women live. Like just years of maybe spurt's here and there, but then, or they've lost the weight, they've gained the weight, they've had the kids, they've had the surgery, whatever it is, and they're just tired. To your point of the expiration date, I think that's it. At a certain point, that can work for you. And at a certain point, it stops working or it's just too exhausting to even keep up with. And I agree with what you said. Like we know, cause we've lived this, right? So we understand how hard it is. And I think initially, just hearing other people approach it differently is enough to give you a little glimmer of, wait, there's another way. And they're being successful, right? I think you have to see the two things together. So whether it's in fitness, right? Oh, she's not using the mean girl to beat herself up to exercise and stay healthy. And she's still able to stay healthy and maintain a consistent lifestyle, right? So proof that it can happen, same with business, right? Oh, she's doing this differently. She's being kind to herself. She's giving herself what she needs. She's listening to her body. She's seeking support. And it's working for her. Like first, just seeing that it's possible because usually we're surrounded by the other message, right? We're usually surrounded by harsh voices and critics and just keep up and just do more and the feeling of not being enough. Then the counter to that is that it kind of is a lifetime journey. So I have changed so much. Right, I am so far from where I was when I started this journey of where I used to really just spend all this time in my head beating myself up. And yet, here I am, and I share this openly with my community all the time. Even last week, I had a video shoot. And again, I've been coaching myself in this for years, changing my mindset. I teach others how to do it. And yet, what goes into my head? Immediately, how am I gonna look on camera? How have I been eating? Have I gained weight? How am I like blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah? All of it, all of those thoughts. So it's not that it's not there, but it's what I do with it and how I respond to it has changed so much. So where that used to lead me down a path of, oh, well, I should restrict what I'm eating. And I should da-da-da-da and beat myself up about it. Instead, I'm just like, okay, I hear that inner critic. I hear that voice. I'm here to teach women how to truly be well. And that means in their mind as well as their body. So I am not here to show someone what a perfectly chiseled body looks like. That's actually not my job. That might be someone's job. That's not mine. Mine is to show up and show women how to care for themselves, where they are today, to connect with their body, feel good in their body, regardless of the size, the shape, the season of life that you're in. So I bring myself back to my mission. That allows me to show up. And I've been doing something new even recently, which is from Louise Hay. This concept, maybe you've heard of it before, of basically just looking in the mirror and saying, I approve of myself. And something about that simple phrase has been changing me. At first, it didn't really resonate. I thought, it's a little silly. I don't know. Of course, I approve myself. I'm an confident person. I just kind of move on. But the more I have sat with it, those words of I approve of myself and looking in the mirror. So before that video shoot, putting on my spandex, getting ready to go out and film, I approve of myself. Really letting that sit and be true. Same within business. How often do we beat ourselves up at the end of the day? Because we didn't get more done because we have someone on our team who's unhappy with us because we didn't hit a goal. It's just this constant, I could be doing more. I could be doing better. I could be doing more. I could be doing better. But even in business, I've been applying that, what if I approved of myself? What if I actually approved of myself at the end of the day? I've led my team the best I could. I made the best decisions I could with the knowledge that I have. I listened to my body and gave as much energy as I have available today. Really looking at it that way and leaning into that is something I've just been playing with. It's been really powerful because it's that self-compassion and it's a very practical way to just extend it to yourself over and over and actually let yourself feel like enough. You're really making me think of like piecing. I think we're comparing ourselves to thinking of these people who are doing 100% of everything every day. Like I know realistically people aren't doing that. Nobody is. But I'll get on Instagram and it looks like they are. I think I always have to remind myself. I love the I approve of myself because I think that we are piecing together. Instead of looking at it as days anymore, I kind of look like what kind of week am I piecing together? So I will put a checklist that would make me happy for the week and sort of like looking at these days. I'm like, no, this is very feasible. This feels good and doable. And guess what? Sometimes Monday through Wednesday gets away from me. And I'm like, oh my gosh, I did nothing. And instead of going, oh, well, I feel so bad about it. I'm like, oh, well, I just have these things that I said this is a good week. Or I would feel good if I got most of these things done. Yeah, I love that. So now I can kind of look at my week or like I, that's really helped me go. Looking at these people online makes me think they're doing everything every day. And I'm like, actually we're kind of just trying to piece together some good weeks. Even in terms of like what we're doing in fitness sometimes, what we're doing in our business because you will not be 100% every day. Oh my gosh, some days I'm 30%, some days I'm 90%. Some days I'm 80%. And I think the older that we get, we can fully accept that every day is gonna be different. The weather affects us, hormones affect us. Now being in my 40s, sick parents affect us. Loss and family affects you. Like these are all things that are gonna drastically change what you're capable of carrying that day, how you're gonna show up that day. And I think it's like, what do you approve of? Like, did you show up the best that you could with what you were given to work with that day? And I think piecing together good weeks or even like, what could make this somewhat of a win for a month? Cause you're gonna have some really hard times. It's just such a better way for me to look at it. I love that. Thinking of it as a little bit bigger picture, zooming out. And remembering, we hear this all the time, but everyone is sharing a highlight reel, right? So no one is doing it 100% all the time. And learning to ride those waves, right? Of today I have 100%, today I have 30%. That's something my doctor has been telling me to do for years to take care of myself better. Because when we think of our hormones, we think of our nervous system. When we are at 30% and we push and expect ourselves to give 100% and we don't change the expectation of ourselves, that's when we do damage, right? That's when we actually, if we keep doing that, that's when we reach burnout. You're not your most creative on those days. So I used to just still push myself, like I still have to get this done. Now sometimes I'll be like, yeah, it's probably best if I just wrap it up for a few hours. Like just this week, I was just exhausted. And I'm like, you know what? I could sit here and stare at the screen and try to pound this out. Or I could go lay down for 10 minutes, put my phone away, or go for a 10 minute walk, or a 20 minute walk, or recharge, and either come back better tomorrow or come back better this afternoon. But we keep ourselves to these schedules of, I know so bad. And override what our body is telling us that it actually works against us. So I think actually tuning into that can lead us to be more successful, more productive, more proud of how we're showing up than less. I definitely feel like once a month, I have a day where it's like 2 p.m. And I'm like, we're done. Like I'm just, I'm shutting the laptop. I don't care what I, I might just like go lay in bed. I might need to get out of the house. I might just go for a walk and not think of work the rest of the day because you, when you get to that place where you're pushing and you're not creative, you're fooling yourself. You're not doing good work and you're actually not doing any work. If you looked at what you did in the last five hours, you're like, what did I do? It's not productive work anyways. It's not even good. But I'm checking the boxes, you know? Or I'm feeling like I'm giving. And energetically, people feel you. They feel your emails. They feel how the video that you filmed during that. And don't get me wrong, I've had to film plenty of things. Not in my greatest stage. Okay, turn it on. Yeah, it's the many of things. But I do think if you can, like you're gonna come back with, you're gonna be able to do double the next day because you actually gave yourself some room. Like you gave yourself some room to energize. So you had said consistency is one of the biggest things for women. It's, and I know that. I mean, for myself too, consistency in certain things in life, what would you say are some things that help people be more consistent? And what do you do inside the app that helps people be more consistent? Yeah, well, I love what you said about looking at your week. Because I've noticed that a lot of people confuse consistency with perfection. Interesting. You know, if I'm consistent, that means I'm perfectly hitting my goal. Or I'm working out every day. Or I'm perfectly working out four times a week, whatever your goal is. But really consistency is just showing up over time regularly. It doesn't have to mean hitting it perfectly. And I think when you zoom out, that has been tremendously helpful for me. To know that even some weeks, like this week, I'm hoping to get two workouts in. You know, I've had kids home from school, sick kids, I've been traveling. You know, that's, but for me, that would be consistent this week. And that's not a reason to beat myself up. It's not a reason to think I'm no longer consistent, no longer keeping up with my workouts. It's just riding the waves of each week. Next week, I might be home more and have more workouts to fit in. I'm still consistent because I'm still showing up over time consistently. So I really like to help people zoom out and look a little bit bigger. It's not about every day. It's not even about each week. Look at yourself over a month, over a few months, over a year, over a few years. So our members stay with us for years and often say this is the most consistent I've ever been with anything in my life. Part of that is from redefining what consistency looks like and allows them to avoid that all or nothing trap of, oh, I didn't do what I said I was gonna do this week. So forget it all. I'm gonna take a few more weeks off and then I'll get back to it after Christmas or I'll get back to it in the new year. When you're not stuck in that all or nothing mentality, you just pick back up and just keep picking back up. We also promote short workouts. So again, some people might be like, oh, no way, but as little as 10 minutes. We promote 10 minute workouts and I'm telling you, I believe in this, I've been saying it for over a decade and I will stand by it forever. Never underestimate the power of 10 minute workouts. There's so many reasons for this, right? Not only do we know that 10 minutes of movement can be beneficial, you're gonna get your circulation going, your lymphatic fluid, your mood is gonna boost, all of these things. But we also know that from like a behavioral psychology standpoint that it just makes it so much easier to say yes. So you're sitting there, you're tired, it's the end of your work day. If someone said, you know, you're gonna go do an hour workout at the gym or can you do 10 minutes at home? Yep, you're so much more likely to say, okay, I'll do that 10 minutes. And what that does for you in terms of the identity it creates for you. The identity. The identity piece, right? Absolutely. I am a person who works out. I am a person that does roll out my mat at the end of the day even when I don't feel like it. Even if it's only for 10 minutes, that builds over time. And often there's the magical effect that once you've started, you're happy to hit press play on another 10 minute workout. Then you've got 20, 25 minutes that you just did and you wouldn't have done it otherwise if it was between committing to a long sweaty hour at the gym. So it works from an identity point of view. It works from a practicality point of view, 10 minutes in your hotel room when you're traveling. And it works from a building confidence in yourself that, oh, I am a person who can continue to show up and fit this into my life no matter how busy I am. I, like I approve this message. Because one of the big things for me, how I view that as well is, are you staying in momentum? Because momentum is one of the hardest things to get again once you stop. And so 10 minutes keeps you in momentum, which means number one, when you, let's talk about when you lose momentum, when you haven't worked out for, let's say all of a sudden it's been six months. The hump that you feel you have to get over of starting over and not doing a workout at all. It's like that brain leap from like zero to, oh my gosh, I haven't done this. This isn't a habit, it's not a routine. Like that's challenging. You've now created a mountain for yourself. I get it. And not saying it can't be done, it absolutely can be it is every day, but you've now created a mountain. Mentor can be far away. A lot harder. Mentor can feel like a mountain. And your body's tired. It hasn't moved that way in a long time. You feel weaker when you go back, where 10 minutes, if you're doing this all the time, even when you go back to your hour workout or your 45 minute workout or whatever you choose, your body can do it because you've kept the strength up. And it's not a mountain to your brain going, I haven't done this in so long. I haven't been consistent. Oh, this is who I am. I'm not consistent. So I might as well not start. Your brain now says, oh, I am consistent. I've been doing these 10 minute workouts so I can do the 45 minute workout. I haven't lost anything because I've kept it with these 10 minutes. You literally stay in momentum with 10 minutes. That's why even, I was still doing some lifting but then walking and I never got out of it. I was like, you can walk as much as you want but you can't never not walk. Like every day, you have to walk every day. And during some really hard seasons because I was still making myself take a three mile walk every day, I never got out. So even though I stopped lifting, I actually did for a year a little while ago. And that was insane for me because you know that's my whole identity. And because I walked every day though I was able to like go back when I felt ready because I never felt out of momentum. Because I was forcing myself to walk. You were still in a rhythm of taking care of yourself. I love that. I love the concept of momentum and bringing that into it. It's also the easiest way to break a streak. So if you fall on a momentum, again, I will get into this, right? Even if I've just been traveling or I've been sick and I'm just out of routine, that 10 minutes is like, okay, just do 10 minutes. Do not try to tell yourself you have to go to the gym. You have to do all these things. Just roll out your mat and do 10 minutes. And that'll break the streak. All of a sudden it's broken. And you're back in your routine and you can kind of ease in from there. And I feel like this applies to so many areas of life, right? We do it for exercise and it's what makes people feel like, wow, this is so easy to be consistent. But the same can be true for other goals that you have that you're working towards. Whether it's in business, marriage, relationships, nutrition, all of those things. I do that with reading all the time. I'm a 10 minute girl. Like, okay, you haven't read a book in like two or three months. You really need to pick a book up. And then like just 10 minutes in the morning. And a lot of times I don't get it every day. I'm like, okay, you did three times this week, but just get back to 10 minutes. That's me with journaling. I'm insane. I want a journal. It's so good for me. But so I'm just like, just five or 10 minutes. Just give it yourself. I start small all the time. Like I think probably way more. And it sounds like you do too. Way more than people realize. But it's what's kept me consistent is just these tiny little teeny tiny little things. It's the secret. I'm telling you, it is the secret to consistency. And we hear so many messages that intensity matters more than consistency. Or we get confused that being consistent means being perfect. But consistency over time, that's how I've built my business. That's how I've built our community. I say, I've been showing up for 10 years saying the same thing. Yeah. For 10 years. The same thing. It's everything. Everything in business, you guys. Yeah. And when people ask me what the secret is, I'm like, I'm just still saying the same thing. I'm still leading the community that I want to lead and showing up and doing it consistently. Yeah. We recently, because a lot of things have changed in social media and the algorithm and email. And it's harder to be seen right now. And so I was almost slipping into the narrative of a lot of people around me going, it's harder. Oh my gosh. This is the beginning of the end of things filling. And I just had this moment where I was like, but how much am I showing up? How much is it my identity that I'm filling a mastermind? How much is it my identity that I am fundraising right now? And when I switched to talking about it every day, guess what happened? It became easy. And I'm like, oh, there's all the people. Yeah. And I've made it. So I'm like, what am I not making my identity that I'm believing is hard? If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about. But then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video. Just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi. And immediately you can start personalizing your Aura frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time. And really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it. For a limited time, save on the perfect gift by visiting auraframes.com to get $35 off Aura's best selling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wirecutter by using promo code urn at checkout. That's A-U-R-A-Frames.com promo code urn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about from what customers see to what they don't see like legal paperwork, website security, and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest Registered Agent. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1500 corporate guides. Real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent, and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Bring your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award-winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between, choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees and there's zero pressure. From blackout and motorized options to classic shutters, blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget. Even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code, earn at checkout, limited time offer, rules and restrictions apply. Cblinds.com for details. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stopped thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. Choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in too. Create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you. Handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy. That's Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Honestly, it's been the craziest thing just even recently in the last two weeks with this fundraise. Cause I was like, oh gosh, are the people there? And so I've made it every day for the last two weeks. And guess what? The flood of people every day consistently, messy, messy. Like showing up very messy, you guys. Like I don't know how, how am I supposed to talk about this? Like what is this gonna feel like or look like? Is this gonna feel desperate? Is this like all the things that can go through your head? And it's just I'm wrapping my, I am turning myself into a person who identifies with showing up every day no matter how small it is on the thing that has been, you know, that I've been doubting. And I think that that's been really game changing for me. And I've been writing it on a, like the, the post-it note boards. Yeah. And leaving it on an easel. And I leave it up so that I see it every day while I'm working. And I go back to it at night and I go, did I do these things that make me proud? Even if they're like really small. And it is, I know this is crazy. I've been doing all these things for so long, but this little shift the last two weeks was such a reminder of don't get caught up in what other people are saying or that it's hard or it's hard to work out or, you know, you slip out of routine so easy. Yeah, but have you found that thing that works for you? Have you found the 10 minutes? Have you tried Robin's app? Like these, there's support out there. There's right that you can do. You know what else I love about that is it's the accountability piece too. I think because we consume so much of what other people are doing these days. I don't know about you, but I'm thinking about my message constantly. I'm writing about it in emails or I'm consistently working on our brand, our content, but I'm not always saying it as much as I think I am. So that's exactly, like I love that that sometimes I think we think we're doing more in our head because we're thinking about it all the time. And that's something that we've been talking about at Lindywell is like we've been saying this for a long time and our members in our community knows it, but are we saying it enough externally that everyone out there who hasn't yet found Lindywell really knows what we're about? I know, I had that moment looking at my social and I was like what would a brand new person landing on our social media say would they know exactly what is most important to us and what we do and the answer was no. That's what we're just talking about. Same, we were talking about the same thing or would they know what actually makes us unique? Cause we've got a lot of great engagement, a lot of great shares, a lot of great things going on on our public social media accounts, but would they come there and know what makes us different from another Pilates app out there? I think we have work to do there, but doesn't mean I'm not thinking about it constantly. I'm not saying it constantly. I'm not writing about it constantly, but it's not showing up maybe everywhere as much as we need to and I think that that's just true for so many brands as we don't realize just how much we have to be explicitly clear about who we are, what we're here to do, who we're here to serve and specifically what makes us unique compared to every other piece of content that they're consuming. Yeah, and so like, you're gonna feel like I'm already feeling this way and I've only been doing it for like literally two weeks, but I feel less tired because I feel like, oh, I'm doing my job and I'm not thinking of how do I, how do I do it? How do I say, you know how you do it? You do it messy and then you start to see what resonates with your audience and then all of a sudden you're starting to get all these messages and things that reflect back that, oh, it's working and people are understanding and then you feel so in alignment. Like you start to feel, you get tired when you can tell you're a little bit out of alignment with like maybe not doing the things or speaking what you want and this goes right back to working out. You guys, some of you are exhausted because you're not keeping a promise and you really, really, really wanna be the person who takes care of herself. You really, really wanna be the person who shows up in their business, but you're probably having the expectation that you need to do so much at once and honestly, 10 minutes on something scary in your business, move the needle, send the email, like show up on social media, 10 minutes, 10 minutes in your app doing Pilates. Like it's so much less than you think, but more consistent. Yes, yes. Is the game changer. And your identity will shift. Your identity shifts. And you will show up in a different way. For sure. I just wanna hit on nutrition for a hot second because you have the nourished reset meal guide. And I know for a lot of people, like I do think the movement a lot of times is kind of the one that I think can really kind of shift you even spiritually. It can reconnect you back to your body. It can make you feel like you're in momentum, but then some people get really, they can get frustrated because maybe they don't see a result and you really wanna see a result even though you're feeling it and you're happy and you're more proud. A lot of times that food piece is really big too. And man, this goes so deep on such an identity level of our face.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, nutrition guidance as well, but feeling like we are all overwhelmed with information. We have more information than ever when it comes to nutrition, but none of us know what to do. I was telling me not to eat everything. I thought I was doing so good and now I'm so sad. He's so bad. He's so protein, but actually don't because you're kidneys. My meat comes in a container. Yes, exactly. It's literally paralyzing. It's paralyzing. I've been hearing this from our community of like, I am just, I feel like I don't even know what to do anymore. I'm just kind of in this stuck place. Everything, I second guess all my choices. So the goal with the nursery set was to help cut out the noise. Let's simplify nutrition again because again, most people, when you're taking in all of this information, we're hearing from people who are teaching you how to optimize and how to do this and how to do that. We can't actually put it together into those small steps that are actually going to move the needle the most, right? What is the saying that you can major in the minors, right? So many of us will start focusing on these big lofty things that don't actually move the needle as much as focusing on some of the foundational nutritional principles. So my goal with the reset was to help people cut out the noise, provide a clear path for how to nourish yourself well. And of course it's done in the Lindywell way. So we are pushing back on diet mentality, diet culture. We are not going into this with this maybe traditional like cleanse temporary mindset. Instead, it is let's learn the foundations of nutrition, how we can truly care for ourselves well, and how we can set ourselves up to do it for a lifetime. So it's not a quick fix. It's not a trendy like four weeks and you're done. You're going to learn how to fuel yourself, how to fill your plate with the right kinds of foods for energy, how to support your metabolic health, reduce inflammation, and it's really an educational program. But what we do in the first week, the first module is identity work because of what you're saying before you even can make lasting change with food, you first have to uncover what is your relationship with food? What is your belief about yourself when it comes to food? It runs really deep for us, especially as women. And so that is the most powerful shift that we make in the program. Honestly, it surprises people. But once we do that together in that first week and start to shift some of those identity and start living as our future self, our healthiest self right away, then once we start to get into the nutrition components, the meal prep, like the really practical stuff, you're coming at it from a completely different point of view and a different mindset that actually allows you to make changes. So for me, it's been just really powerful to kind of take our fitness approach and apply it to food and help people bring it back to the basics and focus on where do we start first, build those habits, then you can go optimize, then you can go, you know, specialize from there. But let's first get the foundations that are holding most of us back from feeling our best. It's really crazy. You know, you're talking about like inflammation. I was just thinking when I moved from the Midwest to California, I noticed that I was eating out more in California, but we were eating at like we were choosing really healthy restaurants because there were the options. We didn't have that where we lived at all in the Midwest 15 years ago. You know, when we moved 15 years ago to California and they had this restaurant next to us called true food. This is not an advertisement for them because actually it's totally changed since then, but still okay. But we would go eat there all the time and I was eating it like I was eating way more food and I was feeling so much better because what I didn't understand at first when I started eating there is that restaurant concept was about reducing inflammation. So everything on the menu was about like non-inflammatory foods. And when I would eat there, I was like, wait, I'm not bloated. I feel amazing. I've actually lost weight living here. I'm eating more. I'm eating out. And so even just what you said, oh, my moods like completely changed. And I thought I knew about nutrition, but even just focusing on things like some of us get so freaked out about like, oh God, it's January or we want to cut back or food like in order to lose weight, you're miserable. That's your calorie restricted, which means I'm even more tired, which means my workouts get harder. All of these things, you know, you feel like you have no joy. I can't go do anything. And just even a perspective shift of what if I focused on just like lowering my inflammation? I don't have to think about calories. I don't have to think about anything like that. Like I could just be a woman who wants to take better care of herself through her food, which means let's just like lower the inflammation in our bodies and brains through our food. That's been such a shift for me. Yes. So I love that you talk about that. Yeah. Instead of restricting, there are ways to focus on food that are not restrictive that change the game for you. Yes. And that's what we say. Let's focus on nourishment over restriction. So good. Because the same thing, whether you're focusing on reducing inflammation or the language we use is when we focus on really nourishing ourselves. It's so much more again, motivating actually and life giving to look at food from that angle of, okay, how can I nourish myself with this meal? Is this the most nourishing choice I can make right now? That is a completely different point of view than I shouldn't have that. That's so bad for me. I can't have that. That's a completely different experience. And you'll be able to stick with that. I can't have that restriction point of view for a short period of time, but not forever. And it is something we have to do for a lifetime. Yeah. Just like exercise. We have to do this forever. It's not like one and done. And we crave that one and done. We crave that quick fix or a quick cleanse or thing. But the reality is, this is our life. And when we're really doing it to thrive in life, to be the best partner we can be, the best version of ourselves, we can be the healthiest for as long as possible. Focusing on nourishment is a game changer. And so that's one of the things we do in the program that I just love. How can you nourish yourself? Fuel your gut health. Fuel your body with enough food so that you can build muscle and preserve your bone as you age. These are the things that actually matter. If you're in an age of fertility, how can you fuel your body to support that? How can you see this as a benefit in your life and something that you're enjoying versus like this constant battle with yourself of restriction and like you said, sucking all the joy out of your life? For sure. Never going to lead to true wellness. No. Another big one is just like looking at my plate and being like, what mood am I eating right now? Like instead of looking at my food, I'm like, okay, if I could always know which we do know, how will I feel after I eat this? So like what is the mood that I'm about to eat? And so I think of that a lot with like sugar or alcohol. Don't be wrong. I love some cocktails. But like it has helped me cut way back on drinking because I'm like, because you take that moment to be like, you know what? It's not I don't want to drink anxiety. Yeah, like I don't want to feel anxious all day tomorrow. Yes. My life's a little too stressful. Do you feel that after alcohol? I do. Yes. Not all the time. But like if I like, I'll tend to have a cocktail on a Friday and a Saturday. Yeah. But when I hit two, I'm going to feel anxious. Yeah. Yeah. The anxiety the next day is different. Totally. Oh, for sure. Such a bummer. So during the week, like if I have heavy weeks, I'm like, no, you can't handle. Yeah. You're not going to be able to handle how you feel tomorrow and your goals deserve more than that. You know, I'm like, no, your goals deserve something else. So go have a mocktail and go figure that out. You know, a lot of the food I ate him, like, is that anxious? Is that going to be is that lethargy? Is that going to be oh, I'm eating nap time at 3 p.m. Yeah. Like it's a very different way to look at your food and going crap. Yeah. Like I yeah, that sounds good, but I don't want to have sacrifice how I'm going to feel or you know, a little bit of awareness. You are a long way. Like yeah. And then we even talk about in the program how OK, when you do want to indulge, how can we do it mindfully? Yeah. How can we do it in a way that's going to still help you feel your best? Right. So is there a way you can do it where you have some protein with it? Some, you know, some balance it out so that the the blood sugar spike isn't so intense as maybe it was if we just went straight to the afternoon piece of cake and then want to fall asleep an hour later. You know, so learning how your body works is really empowering. For sure. For how you can best take care of yourself and show up. Yeah. You want to show up because I like what you said about alcohol. It's like to manage what I have to manage each day. Yeah. With the kids and with work and with the pressures. I need every ounce of the energy I can find. And of course, I don't always nail it. I do have days where I'm like, well, like last night, shouldn't I eat those frozen waffles, you know, probably when I got home last night? Like that was just yeah, that's where I was. No guilt, no shame. Yeah. But I'm very aware of like I need to do as much as I can to support myself if I want to show up and lead the way I want to lead. Have the energy to do what I want to do to move the mission forward of my company to be the mom, the friend, the spouse, the long list of things that we all carry each day. Yeah. I want to be so clear. Like I you guys listening, like I definitely choose things. I like know I shouldn't be choosing every single week. But also like the awareness and intention makes me do it way less. That's the goal. Way less. And that's the goal. And that's my goal. Every my goal is to it is absolutely not to be perfect. In fact, like I know that like on date night each week, I'm having a cocktail with my husband and I love it. That's a form of nourishment. Yes. Yeah, that is when you sit there and you enjoy it and you are in the moment and you taste it and you sip it and it's a experience you're having with your husband. That's what I teach in the program. That's nourishment. Yeah, that is a form of nourishment. And so when we get stuck in the good, bad, should, shouldn't, that's when we find ourselves in unhealthy patterns that are hard to break out of. For sure. That narrative is like I really watch how much I'm saying, you know, am I, am I perfect? Am I not perfect? And I just, it's like, no, how you just chatted about like somewhat balance, but balance to me is like there's, you know, very different definitions, but okay, how can we learn more about your app? So tell me about that. Yeah. So you can go to LindyBelle.com. That's where you'll find everything about our app. We also are in the app store and we have Pilates workouts in there. We have more weight training workouts in there as well. We call it Pilates inspired weight training because kind of what you mentioned, we've had a lot of people requesting more weights, but also we're doing it with our awareness of our core, our posture, our alignment, our breath. We're kind of bringing the Pilates principle into lifting. So you get the most out of each movement and hopefully avoid injury. And then we also have breath work in there for nervous system support and recipes and there's a monthly calendar in there. So when we come back to that thought of consistency or for us as high achievers, entrepreneurs, decision fatigue is real, right? So the goal with the monthly calendar is that you can open the app, follow it. The workout of the day pops up right there. It's 30 minutes or less. You just do it. You can trust that we've put together a well rounded calendar for the month that's going to really work your whole body. And I love that about it because again, I think that helps in the consistency. You don't have to go figure out what should I do today and then get distracted on YouTube or wherever you might be looking for a workout. So you can find us there and find a great community. And I'd be happy to chat with anyone about Pilates or this approach to balance living that is more focused on nourishment and restriction. I think we all deserve it. Oh my God. I love this conversation not only for obviously health, but so much around business can be taken from this. Like this was such a beautiful, just conversation around not beating yourself up and getting so much further through grace. It's changed my entire life. I know that it's going to be sustainable. I know that it's gotten me a lot more results and a lot more happiness along the way. And I'm absolutely not perfect at that, but I lean more towards it now in my life, which has been so helpful. So I'm so grateful for you. What I love that you shared is that it's not taking away from your drive. Yeah. It's not taking away from what you're setting out to do. It's just approaching it in a way that's going to allow you to do it at the top of your game and to do it for as long as possible without burnout. And I think that's such an important distinction for people to hear. Yeah. It's letting me rest more in between rather than like go all in and quit. Go all in and quit. Yes. Yes. It's more of this rest mentality and then pick up strong. Yeah. So and it's completely changed my life. So I'm so grateful for you. Thank you. Rod, we're going to link everything below. So you guys, if you want to learn more about her app, if you want to learn more about the nourished reset, that's all going to be linked below. So you can just click below in the show notes. And I will also link up her Instagram so you can go follow there. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.

=== FILE: The 6 Types of Genius That Will Change How You Work, Lead, and Live with Patrick Lencioni [qz5yxrME5dM].txt ===

 the first five years of entrepreneurship, I was like, am I cut out for this? Like, I am so bad over here. Why do I have so much resistance here? Like, what is my problem? I think the most powerful thing about knowing you're working genius and knowing that working genius is the people around you and your family and in your teams at work is you avoid guilt that you direct to yourself for what you're not good at and judgment to others. Because I thought I was lazy because I didn't like details and finishing things. Oh my God, that's me. But when you start a business, you think, well, I'm supposed to be good at all of it. And nobody is. We tend to focus on the things we're not good at and think we have to get better at those and that's not how life is supposed to be. And I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Pat, welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. It's great to be here, Lori. It's gonna be fun. Oh my gosh. This is gonna be such a fun conversation because it's something that I feel like not only I'm into, but I think this is a great way to start off 2026 for yourself and for your team. I think there's so many things that we chat about in the world around trying to get more energy and trying to get our energy back and so on we can think that it's about the food that we're eating or what we know, the people were around things like that. Some of the things that I, the quiz that I took was so enlightening for me and so I'm very excited to dive into our topic today. But first I'd love to chat about, you've been in leadership for how long now? Well, I've had my company for 28 years. Wow. A little over 28 years, which sounds crazy because when we started it, we didn't know how long it would go. So I've had the table group for that long and then I worked before that for nine years in corporate America. Yeah. Okay, so tell me how that got started. I would love to know the story of what you were doing in corporate America and then what made you go, no, this is absolutely where I want to go. So my folks didn't go to college when I got out of college. I got the best job in America the year I graduated college. It was literally the number one job on every list and in the books they wrote, people wanted this job and somehow I got it and I thought, oh, I've made it, I've arrived, it pays well. I was a management consultant for this big firm and I thought it would have something to do with managing people and consulting, but it was really data analysis. And I was miserable, but I didn't know why. And so then I got another job after two years, you do two years there, and then I got a job at a big company that was not that big at the time called Oracle and I was there for two and a half years and it was a pretty crazy culture. And I was like, I really like the human side of business. And then I went to a software company after that, competitor and became an executive there. And just as things were settling and I had a stable job and my dad was happy that I had benefits and everything, I decided I really wanna work with other companies. So me and four colleagues started the table group. I had no books, no speaking. We were just like wanting to go out and help CEOs make their companies healthier so people would get more done and be more fulfilled. And so we did that, wrote a book by accident, start giving talks, things started to grow 28 years later, here we are. So was that based on like, were you having those like feelings of like, wait, I keep getting these great things but I'm miserable, I have no energy? Like what was starting to give you those signs of, I really wanna make sure that people are in the right positions and starting to dig into that. Well, for the first 23 years, we did not have working genius. This is new, but we knew that you needed to get people in the right chairs and do all these things. But we didn't really understand why. Now I used Myers-Briggs for things. I like, I love all the tests. I love all the assessments and it's all interesting. But there was never really an assessment that was like, what kind of work does a person love to do? Like what kind of tasks fill them up and which kind drain them? And I didn't realize when I look back at my life, the jobs that I was good at and the jobs that made me happy, it wasn't about the industry or even the title, it was about the nature of the work. And I had so much guilt and shame growing up in my career about the things I wasn't good at thinking, what's wrong with me? Why am I not good? Why does that guy or that gal find this easy? And I'm grinding on it and I don't even like it. And it literally was 30 years later that we stumbled upon this model that, and said, oh, now we finally understand it. And so all these other assessments are great, but this one is actually gets down to the tasks, the kind of day to day work, whether it's at home, running your household, whether it's at work, whether it's volunteering at your church or your school or any part of, in retirement, what kind of work feeds us? And that's kind of, I think why it's taken off because people, you fill out the survey and in 12 minutes you have a report and you're like, oh, no wonder. I understood why I felt guilty as a kid for not liking mowing the lawn with my dad. I know why my first job, I wasn't very successful. And I thought it was because I was just an imposter. So anyway, so that's kind of how it came about. Five years ago, I was just trying to solve a problem for myself. I didn't know why I was getting kind of frustrating in my own job, in my own company with the people I love. And somebody said, why are you like that? And I said, I don't know, but I want to figure it out. And by the grace of God that day, we came up with these six things. Just to explain me, not to come up with a new model. And then it grew from there. Okay, this is so powerful. And we'll go through, you know, this is called the six types of working genius. We're going to go through them, but it's so powerful because I reflected back after taking the quiz. I reflected back on all of the things that I've done that I felt bad about too. I was like, oh my gosh, I was bad at that. Or I get so frustrated with myself to the point of thinking this was towards the beginning of my career, probably the first five years of entrepreneurship. I was like, am I cut out for this? Like I am so bad over here to the point where I had almost talked to myself out of doing things that are like a massive dream so many times. I am glad I did not, but I wish I would have had this years ago to be able to fill in the gaps so much faster and let go of all the, it's heavy to carry that. It's heavy to carry. Like am I dumb in this area? Why am I so, why do I have so much resistance here? Like what is my problem? Am I lazy? Am I, it's like- Oh, you're hitting all the things. You're hitting all those things. And you know, and that's the thing. We assign value judgments to things. And I think the most powerful thing about knowing you're working genius and knowing that working genius is the people around you and your family and in your teams at work is you avoid guilt that you direct to yourself for what you're not good at. We're not meant to feel that way. And judgment to others. Cause I thought I was lazy because I didn't like details and finishing things. Oh my God, that's me. And it's like, well, and then other people think that they're stupid because they can't come up with a new idea out of thin air. And I don't have a problem with that. And one man's trash is another man's treasure. And now I can look at somebody else and go, you have gifts that I don't have and I love that in you. And they say, well, you have gifts that I don't have and we work together, God made us to need one another. But when you start a business, you think, well, I'm supposed to be good at all of it. And nobody is. And we tend to focus on the things we're not good at and think we have to get better at those. And that's not how life is supposed to be. Oh my gosh. Okay, another reason why I love this so much is because of exactly what you just said. I think about in the world, if we were just solo, like we knew everything we could function on our own, we'd be hermits, which as a human being, we need each other. And I feel like God puts every little missing piece of what we need in people and forces us to discover them because we're missing it, you know? And if we just have it, we have to find them. And once you do what we're about to talk about and once you figure this out and once you finally have a team where you feel like every skill set is being covered, you will understand how beautiful it is to work with people and appreciate them that they're good at and let go of what they're not good at and release the expectation around that. It's like, it's one of the most freeing things. And I wanna touch on towards the end here, how this works in family. Cause we did a little something like this with our family and it's been life changing as I actually have stopped like resenting certain people for different things. So we'll go into that. And my family is here for the holidays. Maybe we'll take this all together. I haven't made them do it, but maybe we will. Okay. You see each other in new ways. I can't wait to talk about it. We'll get there. This is great. We'll dive into that too. Cause it is game changing. Okay. So let's talk about, I wanna talk about the six types. Should we start there? Sure, sure. Okay. So there, and the premise here is every kind of work, whether you're running your business, whether you're running your home, whether you're building a new home, planning a vacation, launching a product, coming up with a new idea. Every kind of project in the world involves six different geniuses, tasks, and they're all necessary. And I'm gonna go through them all, but here's the thing. Everybody has two of these six that is what's called the bare working genius. Two of them are your genius. That's where you get joy and energy. That's the pouring coffee into a Yeti mug, screwing a lid on it, it'll hold the energy all day long. You're shocked. You're like, how can this still be hot? It's like, cause it feeds you. It generates energy. There's two others that are in the middle, which we call your working competency. Like you can do it. It's not terrible. It doesn't crush you. That's pouring coffee in a cup and putting a lid on it. And it's gonna be okay. Your last two are your working frustrations. This is pouring coffee into a cup that has a hole in the bottom of it. It just drips out. And this is where we get drained of our energy. So these six things, everybody has two that they love and that feed them to that are okay to that drain them. Here's the six. The first one, we're gonna start with that. We're gonna go in the order that they occur. And we're gonna go from highest to lowest in terms of altitude. The first one is called the genius of wonder. This happens at like 40,000 feet up in the clouds. The genius of wonder is when people have, they love to ponder things. They love to sit and think about things. Half of their sentences are like, I wonder if there's a better way to do this. I wonder why things are like the way they are. They look at the environment and they just ask awesome questions, big picture questions. The problem with this genius is most people have never been recognized as having a genius. They've been told when they're little kids in school and even in jobs, hey, why are you asking questions? Why don't you just get it done? Life does not reward wonderers. My wife has the genius of wonder and most of her life she was told, you're airy, you're not focused, you're, and yet Lori, every new project, every new thing worth doing comes with somebody asking the question why. This very thing we're talking about, say came a colleague of mine turned to me one day at work and said, why are you the way you are? I said, what do you mean? She goes, you get so happy during some meetings and you're so frustrated in other projects. And I said, I don't know, but I wanna figure it out. She asked, she didn't know the answer. She just said, why are you like that? I wonder. And so this is the very first and necessary genius and it gets overlooked. And most people that have it, when they take the assessment and they read it, they're like, oh my gosh, this is me. So this is not a fault, it's a feature. So the first genius is the genius of wonder. The next genius, and they go and order is the genius of invention. And that's the person who somebody asked the question, I wonder if there's a better way to do this. Why does it have to be this way? And they go, let me come up with a new way. This is one of my geniuses. I cannot help it. I wake up every morning wanting to come up with a new way to do things. I do it even when it's not necessary, which is annoying to my wife and to others at work. But that's what makes it a genius. It's something that feeds me and I naturally gravitate toward, which means generally we're really good at it because we love doing it. Doesn't mean it's always appropriate, but it means we love doing it. So the first two geniuses are wonder, up 50,000 feet and then invention, down to 35,000 feet. The next genius, and this is one of yours and we'll talk about it, is the genius of discernment. This is such an important one, it's hard to notice. Discernment is people that have really good instinct and gut feel and they look at like multivariables and they have pattern recognition and they look at a situation and they can just go, my gut is telling me that that's the answer and they're usually so close. God made some of us to actually have this way of looking at things and seeing the answer, not in a linear technical fact only way, but actually looking at lots of variables and being able to arrive at the right decision. And for those people that might not have this and think this sounds like magic, a woman in my office named Tracy has this. We ask Tracy, every time we make a decision, I don't care if it's about what I'm gonna wear to dinner or whether I should refinance my house or whether we should launch a product or whether one of the books I'm writing makes sense, we always say ask Tracy. Tracy will look at something and just go, this doesn't seem right to me and she's right. We know, we trust her gut. She is one of the co-founders of our company and she has ensured that we didn't drive off any cliffs because her gut is so right on. And you know what Tracy said when she was a little girl, her friends would say, ask Tracy what we should do. She always, it's just one of those gifts that people have, discernment and judgment. So that's the third genius. The next one is called galvanizing. Galvanizing is the genius of, there are people that wake up every day and they love to push people, inspire people, rally the troops, get people going, even interrupt people, get them to do things that they don't wanna do because they know it's good for them. And you're one of these. Yes. And through the crazy thing. To an annoying point, but yes. And that's the thing, all of us have it to an annoying point, that's the beauty of it. That's how you know it's real because we tend to do it reflexively. But the funny thing is, as I'm explaining this, I said before, one man's trash is another man's treasure. There are people listening to this, Lori, that are going like, you like to do that? And they're like, I hate doing it. I hate pushing people. I hate having to make people do things they don't wanna do. I hate rallying people. If they don't wanna do it, I don't wanna be the one to make them. It's amazing to think that what one person loves doing, another person is like, oh, please don't make me do that ever. I think of that all the time with details. I'm like, I have people on my team who love details. And I'm like, I always thank them for loving details because I'm like, I'm just reminding you how much I hate details and how much I love you because you love details. And that's beautiful. And that's humility. Humility is knowing what you're good at and accepting it, because it's a gift from God. You don't deny the giver. But it's also celebrating what you're not good at and being able to celebrate others and go, part of the working genius is actually knowing what you suck at and being able to celebrate that and go, I don't have talent in that area. And you do, and I'm gonna celebrate you as opposed to going like, yeah, I can do that too. It's like, no, just admit it. You're not good at that. That doesn't mean sometimes you don't have to power through and try, but it's not your gift. And you shouldn't put yourself in life in a position to constantly have to do things that you're not gifted in. It's really horrible. When I very first started in, when we first started in entrepreneurship, like my husband and I started together and it actually caused a lot of fire because I'm just gonna be totally honest here. I wanted to have credit in some of the things that he was getting a lot of credit for, but I was bad at. So... That's natural. That's our natural insecurities. I was like, wait, he's doing like all this detail stuff and coaching and I'm terrible at like one-on-one coaching. And I was like, but I noticed he gets all the love from these people, so I tried it for a while and I just, I tanked, I hated it, it was horrible. But that made me realize, I was like, oh, you know what? You're amazing, you deserve all this credit. I'm gonna let go and go in my zone of genius, which is going out, rallying the troops, getting more like top of funnel eyeballs, getting them excited, and then I'm gonna send them right down to you. And he's getting fed by that. Yeah, he is. You get burned out by it. Yeah. So why should we do that? So the first four were wonder, Mm-hmm. Invention, discernment, galvanizing. Then come the last two, which are the implementation ones. The next one is called enablement, which is a good thing. Not enabling somebody to do something bad, enabling others to be successful by coming alongside them. And when, like when you galvanize somebody and you go, hey, let's do it, there are people who have the genius and it's a God-given genius that say, yes, I wanna help. Let me know what you need me. They are the consummate glue in an organization. They're the volunteers, the people that come alongside. And there are CEOs with this genius. When somebody says, we need your help on this, they're like, yes, tell me what you need me to do and I'll do it. It's a beautiful thing. It's a gift. I'm a Christian man who loves to help people, but I don't have this as a gift. When somebody says, I need your help, I go, is it what I like to do and I'm good at? Or is it when my wife says, I need your help this weekend, I cringe. And if she says, I need you to help me create a new idea or evaluate something. I'm like, oh, good. If she says, I need you just to do what I tell you to do. I'm like, oh, no, I'm terrible at that. And I have friends that are like, I love to help, whatever helps you and makes you feel better, I will do it. Enablement is a gift. And when we overlook that in others, our organizations and our families suffer. They often get overlooked. The last genius, the final genius is the genius of tenacity. And I have none of this. And that is the last details, finishing. It's like, these are people, believe it or not, they wake up in the morning and they say, I want tasks to complete. I wanna know that it got done to spec. And I wanna feel the satisfaction of finishing it and getting it across that line. Lori, I've written 15, 14 or 15 books. I would have written none of them if there weren't people around me that had tenacity because I get bored halfway through and I wanna move on to the next thing. This is so me. And I thought that was like, what's wrong with me? And it's like, oh, God just wired me this way. And I'm gonna stop feeling guilty about it. I'm gonna start putting it out there and surrounding myself with people who actually like the parts of work that I don't. And I'll do the parts of work that they don't like. And one plus one is five. And so what we find is that teams, when they take this, small companies, leadership teams, they look at the results after 10 minutes, they get their results back and they look at it and they go, well, no wonder we failed at that. Or no wonder I get grumpy when I do that. And no wonder we were great at this part of it. We all work together really well. The low hanging fruit, Lori, when people see their results is ridiculous. And I can't wait to talk about how it works in families because my wife's low hanging fruit was crazy. When you're growing a company, you know that you need good people around you in order to get to the next level. And right now there's a talented person out there who could take your company to the place that you want. But the question is, do you wanna just hope that they see your job posts before your competitors? Or do you wanna match with them using Indeed Sponsored Jobs? If I had to hire someone for the show tomorrow, I wouldn't mess around with candidates who look decent on paper, but don't even get what I do. I'd want somebody who already has worked in podcasting and editing and software and understands workflow and can jump in and not only do the job well, but help take us to where we wanna go. That's why I use Indeed Sponsored Jobs. They help you find people who actually fit what you're looking for. Stop struggling to get your job posts even seen on other sites. With Sponsored Jobs, your post is boosted to reach quality candidates, the kind of people who can help your business thrive and drive the results that you need. And the best part is you only pay for results. In fact, Sponsored Jobs posted directly on Indeed are 95% more likely to report a hire than non-sponsored jobs. So if you're hiring, Indeed is all you need and I like those stats. So spend less time searching and more time actually interviewing candidates who check all your boxes, less stress, less time, more results now with Indeed Sponsored Jobs. And listeners of this show will get a $75 Sponsored Job Credit to help get your job the premium status it deserves at Indeed.com slash podcast. Just go to Indeed.com slash podcast right now and support our show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed.com slash podcast, terms and conditions apply, hiring, do it the right way with Indeed. If you're just starting your business or you're looking for a really good foundation in your business, start with Northwest Registered Agent and get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business all in one place. Build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1,500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast with Northwest Registered Agent and get access to thousands of free resources, forms and step-by-step guides without even creating an account. Sign up for a free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more all at no cost. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. I mean, this is huge because for entrepreneur, there's so many solopreneurs who listen to this podcast as well. And I think that you can, I don't think, I know you can get so discouraged so quickly because there are a lot of, I tracked a lot of visionaries and creatives and we typically are not great at follow through and finishing. Yes, and that's exactly true. And here's the thing, there's two ways to look at that. There's the normal way, the bad way that people do. And that's like, I have to work at what I'm bad at and make myself do it more and get good at it. That's not healthy. The other way to do it is to recognize what you're good at and do everything you can and you can't get rid of all of it. But outsource whatever you can. And so when you're a solopreneur, you have vendors and partners. Don't pick people that love what you do. We're kind of drawn to those people and then nobody wants to do the stuff. Find people based on their genius and say, I'm bad at these things. Do you love doing those things and do that? Now, I don't think you should marry people based on that. But when you partner with somebody in a business and you both like to do the same things, nobody's gonna wanna do the other parts and it can be very stressful. So if you're a solopreneur, please give yourself permission to partner with others and outsource things. The other funny thing is you'll go to people and they'll say, yeah, I'll do that for you. Would you do this for me? And you're gonna be like, yeah, that's my genius. That's a party for me. Exactly, exactly. I think of this in terms of, I work with my brother-in-law, I have now for almost 15 years. And when we first started working together probably the first three years, I'd get so mad at him because he, I'd come with a hundred ideas and I'd already be starting them. They'd be already started on social or I'd be like, we're sending this email out and he is an integrator. Now, I'm excited for him to take this test so I can really know. And he's also a, I'm going off of a little astrology though, but he's also a Virgo, which is very detail oriented but also wants to poke at things. Like why won't this work? It's just his, I had to learn that why won't this work? He actually has to work that way to go, no, I need to poke through everything first to see why this could fail. And so I would be so excited coming into these meetings like hot and heavy with this idea and we're going to do this thing. And he's like, well, let me tell you why this could fail though. And I was like, ah, like we just, but we butt heads and I had to learn that I didn't understand that that's just how he operates. And we actually need people like that on our team in order to make sure it won't fail because he understands the logistics side and I don't. So even just understanding little things like this, I mean, it was to the point where I was like, I don't know if I can work with him. And then once I understood that, I actually the deep appreciation was completely opposite. It's crazy. We can actually get annoyed by somebody who's doing the very thing we need. We had a guy contact us right after working genius came out a number of years ago, a few years ago. And he said, before I took working genius, I thought my wife hated me. And we're like, why? And he goes, no, and I know that sounds crazy, but I kind of did because every time he'd propose a new idea and he'd be very excited to get it started, she would always go, but this is going to be a problem. And he goes, I thought that she was against me and wanted to reign on my parade. They did the working genius, figured out he had invention and galvanizing, which means let's go. She was wonder and discernment, which means her whole thing was like, she said, no, this is how I love you. When you're about to drive that car, I'm like, but honey, I don't want it to run into a wall or off a cliff. So the way I love you is to give you thoughts feedback so that you can be successful. He thought she was actually against him. And when they read it, they did it on their anniversary. He goes, for our anniversary, we took it. And he was like, we realized this is actually how we love each other. And what was a frustration went from actually something that drew them together. And people at work do this all the time, like why do you question my ideas? They're like, because I'm good at it. I have a son who works with me, he helped us develop this. And I have invention, he has discernment. And we'll be in a meeting. And in the early days, I would be like, well, I think we should do this. He goes, no, this is why that will fail. And I would go, and I would go, what do you have a better idea? And he would go, no, I don't have invention. I'm just telling you, that one is not going to work. Don't ask me for a better idea. And you know something? I was like, you know, you're right. That's your job. Thank you for doing your job. Yes. And that is the gold. Yes. Oh my gosh. Are there certain? Are there certain of these geniuses that you're finding continue to be in certain positions? Like in a leadership role, in a CEO role, in a founder role, what are you, are there things that you continue to find? Or can some of these be all different? I think until you said founder, I was going to say they can be all different. Because I think we have CEOs with every type. We have marketing people. Because some people are a marketing person, but it's a creative marketing person. Other people get leads and generate leads. It's like, so when people go, I need to hire a person in marketing. You used to be in marketing. It's like, no, what kind of marketing person do you need? What kind of CEO? What kind of business is it? What kind of role do you need? But founders tend to be comfortable with, usually there's some galvanizing and invention and discernment. Because they're kind of like, I want to start this. I want to get this going. Even that is not always the case. But most people that start a business are not the enablement and tenacity, the detail ones, because it's a little too conceptual. And they tend toward roles that are more defined. You're like, you know, Laura, you can relate to this. Like, I hired a guy here in our office, Joe. He has enablement and tenacity, the last two, which are the ones that, that combination is called the loyal finisher. When they say they're going to do something, they mean it, they follow through, and you know it's going to get done. They're never going to flake on it. Yeah. Cause that's what they, they love that. When I hired him, I said, hey, Joe, here's your job. You come up with your own job title. You tell me what you think you should do. Tell me what success looks like. You figured it all out and come back and let me know. And he was like, no. And I said, what do you mean? He goes, that's stressful and miserable. And I said, what? That's my ideal job. When people come to me and say, you figured out, I love that. And he goes, no, I want to know what success is. I want to know what your expectations are. I want to know what, what deliverables are supposed to look like. And I didn't understand. He, his ideal way of working,  abalokin, is totally different than mine. And I have to manage him and work with him in a way that works for him. Instead of going, what's your problem? Why can't you come up with your own job description? Yeah. Just like he could say to me, what's your problem? How come you can't stick to something for more than 20 minutes? Yeah. Yeah, I feel you. So I was watching one of the videos, and I had this epiphany for one of the people that I work with who's like, just one of those amazing team members that were, you know, I'm in startup mode and she's in my startup and it's a products company. And she is really good at a lot of things. And so what happens a lot is she will get offloaded a lot of different things because she can figure them out. And it's funny because I'll watch her in certain tasks like design, you know, brainstorming on design, how should this look? How should this feel? And she thrives. Then I'll give her something that, you know, maybe is maybe a little bit more detail oriented. It doesn't have like a specific way of doing it yet. And I kind of just watch the energy plummet and I'm like, oh gosh, I know exactly what's happening here. And she's got an asset that I'm like, okay, I need to figure out how to make sure that I think this is my question for you. It's kind of the figuring out for those startup people who have the smaller teams. How do we like not bog those people down so much with the stuff that they hate? You know, how can we start to be a little discerning on that? I think the first thing you say to you, you just got to know who they are. And you've got to make it safe for people to say, I love this. I can do this. This stuff is really hard for me because if we don't make that safe, then they're going to try to be what you want them. They think you want them to be and and and either they're going to fail or they're going to burn out because you're going to be there. Even if they want to please you so badly, they're going to really be doing so much of what they don't want to do. So it starts with that. The other thing is we do this thing called a team map. When people take the assessment, you can do a team map and it'll print out for you the whole team, like where you have strengths and where you have frustrations and you'll see areas like massive gaps and you'll say, hey, we have nobody on the team that likes to do that. How are we going to solve that problem? Or everybody wants to do that. Let's figure out how to do this. So it really just is awareness. Most people are like, I just never had a language to put around these things. Now that I do, I'm not criticizing you. I'm just saying we need somebody to fill this gap. How are we going to do that? Yeah. Okay. So let's chat about that for one second because obviously now we're going to use this for hiring because huge unlike if you need to fill a gap, like, you know, you're going to be like, if we find out nobody on the team likes this, okay, but somebody has to take it for now until we can fill that gap. When you're going to hire someone, it's like, do you work with some of the languaging in the geniuses in order to hire? So what does that look like? In fact, you shouldn't be like looking for that. And I love what you said to sometimes people have to do something temporarily. It's like, but it's think about the difference, Lori, between going to somebody and saying, hey, we need you to take one for the team. And for the next two months, there's going to be a lot of work in this area, but we know it's not your genius. We're going to hire somebody to do it, but here's why it matters. We appreciate that. We're going to be there with you. You can complain about it sometimes because we know it's not your thing. The willingness to do that is so much higher than if people are like, this is your job. And we don't want to hear you complain and we expect you to be perfect. Oh yeah. Totally different feeling. Yep. So that's huge. Now the hiring thing is you should never hire anyone or design any job without asking yourself what geniuses do you want? So I just hired eight months ago, a new administrative and executive assistant. And I just moved, we moved to Tennessee and we're reestablishing our headquarters out here. And in the past, you know, you'd interview people and say, do you like them? Are they a cultural fit? That's very important. But I said, you know something? I need somebody with discernment because I'm not going to give them specifics. I need them to look at my world and figure out like, you know what he needs is this. By the time I figure out what I need, I'm probably on the floor. And then I need somebody with tenacity that likes to finish things. And we actually found somebody who was a D and a T. We call that the judicious accomplisher. She has changed my life. I tell her, oh, Tara, I'm really, I need this done. And she's like, yes, you do, but you also need this and this and this. She doesn't ask me, she goes and gets it done. I come to work and she's like, yeah, I did this, but I also did this. And I'm like, oh, thank you. As opposed to just like, I did the one thing you told me to do. I don't really understand what this is all about. The combination, I needed that. I never had language for that before. And so, and then some people will say, well, then do you have the people that are applying for the job take the working genius? Sometimes I think you should. There's discussion around whether that's, and I don't mean it legally, like, can you make people take an assessment? In this case, all you're doing is saying, hey, listen, I want you to like your work. This is the kind of work we want. I want to help you be successful. Do you think you're going to like this work? Maybe you can go off and take that and figure that out. But the last thing I want to do is hire somebody who's not going to like what I'm asking them to do. That's so true. And that is actually, that is sometimes hard to find out because people really want to please you. They want to please you. Yes. You know what we say to people that say this, we call it scare them with sincerity when you hire them. At the end of the interview process go, okay, you'd seem like a great fit. I want to hire you, but let's be really clear. We're going to need you to write heard on all the details. We're going to need you to really go detail. And you know some, I'm going to interrupt you all the time. I'm going to need you just to be okay with that. If you like those things, you're going to be, you're going to love your job and you're going to be so happy. But if you don't two months from now, you're going to be really sad. We're going to be sad. We're probably going to be helping you find a different job. So let's make sure that this is going to be a, because too many people go to a job interview and think my job is to talk my way into getting a yes. It's like dating. Don't talk somebody into, someone into going out with you that you're not going to want to spend time with because then you're miserable. Yeah, I won her over. Now I have to actually spend time with her or him. Don't talk your way into a job you're not going to like. And so scare them with the sincerity of saying, so now if you take this job, this is what we're going to look for somebody who loves creativity and coming up with her own ideas. If that sounds fun to you, welcome aboard. But if that's scary, this would be the right time for you to go. Maybe this isn't the right fit for me. But if you don't have that language and you haven't clarified that, it's really hard. So Pat, are we always going to have like on our team when we're thinking of like getting people into their genius? Are they always going to have tasks though within their competencies and frustrations? Yeah, okay. So they're always going to have that. How do we speak to them around that? I know you kind of put some language to it. Yeah. How do we like speak to them around that and rally them around that? So somebody finally asked me, they said, what percentage? And I'm not a percentage like, you know, it's like, but I think that if you're not getting to spend close to 50% of your time doing something related to your geniuses, that's probably not a lot. That's not good. Okay. But I think that feels right. Yeah. That feels good. Yeah. If you can spend, and if you're spending more than 15% of your time and you're working frustration, that's not good. Everybody has got frustrating work. And this is the thing, and maybe this will be a good translation into the personal life. Think about being a parent. We don't get to choose when our kids need their diaper changer, they have to be driven somewhere or they need counseling or they need help with their math. Parents have to do most of all of that. Some of that we love. Some of that we don't. One person loves part of that and not the other thing. None of us get to avoid the things we don't like. But don't sign up to, don't major in the things that you should be at best minoring in. Yeah. So just know that when you have to do the thing you're not good at, but it's necessary. Just go, okay, I don't love this. I know it's part of this job. But like, so my wife when she, and she was in, she helped them putting this together. She's fantastic. I mean, I know you're, that's your perfunctory to say that, but she is. I love Laura. And when we came up with this model, when the book finally came out, she read it and she turned to me. We're on an airplane. I said, what do you think? And she had tears in her eyes. She says, I really loved it and I'm so mad. And I said, why? And she goes, because I spent the last 20 years working outside of my area of genius. Oh, heartbreaking. And the thing that was particularly heartbreaking was, no, we didn't have the language. But I remember 20 years ago, more. Her saying, ah, man, it's crushing me. I'll be driving all the bills. I'm so bad at keeping the house on top of the house. And she was doing Bible study and doing other things too, but she was at the home person with four boys, getting them to practices and everything else. And I was involved in that too, but she was really the anchor of all that. And it's not her genius. She's a WI. She's the creative dreamer. And I remember even early in our marriage and in our family saying, Laura, why don't you outsource some of that? Hire somebody to do the bills, bring somebody in to do this. And you know what she said, Laurie? She goes, no, no, no, no, no. I have friends that love doing this and they're good at it. So I should be good at it too. If I'm a mom and I don't like that, that would mean I'm a failure. Yeah. Oh, wow. Because you tend to compare. And so now she realizes I didn't have to be good at every aspect of me. I'm just like some moms aren't good at counseling their kids. Some aren't good at. Putting on Christmas feasts. And everybody looks at each other and they read the Christmas cards and they think every other mom or dad is perfect and I'm not. It's like, no, everybody has their geniuses. Everybody has their frustrations. Let's stop trying to pretend we're good at all of it. And let's celebrate the fact that, yeah, when people come to our house, it's going to be kind of messy because my wife and I are neither of us are like detailed maintenance people. And we say to people now, you know, our house is kind of messy sometimes. And they're like, we don't care. And now we stop stressing about it. Yeah, I love that Laura had that epiphany. I wish it could have come earlier for her. But I I think there's so many. Stereotypes and norms like societal norms for women and for men that make us feel so trapped like. Oh, yeah. For years, I felt so bad because I'm not like a super nurturer. Like I'm not the super nurturing woman, but I will. If you tell me you want to start something, I will be by your side. Though if you tell me a goal you have, I won't leave you alone. I'll make sure that you're getting it. Like I will rally so hard, but I was like, oh, is there something wrong with me that like I don't I'm just going to like for Thanksgiving, I'm going to order all the food. It's going to be amazing. It's going to be perfect. I'm going to make sure your wine glass is full, but I'm absolutely not going to do all of those other things and I'm not going to care. Like it's so interesting and not to not to double down on this too much. But so my wife is a WI, the creative dreamer. She hates the day to day of cleaning. Like she's like, oh, by the time I finished making dinner, it's eaten in 15 minutes and I have 20 minutes of dishes and this seems so crazy. But when it comes to a holiday, she's like, we're having 15 people. This year we had two Thanksgiving's back to back two days in a row. The whole thing she did twice. Wow. She she loves that because it's like it's like ideal and it's a project. Now I have to be gone when she's doing it because she's so creative and not structural that it's it's like watching the watching the sausage being made is painful for me. So she's in the kitchen for three days. It's crazy. It's a mess. It always barely comes together at the last moment and it's wonderful. And that's who she is. And I love that. But before we understood that, it would be like, why aren't you bet? Why don't you make dinner every night at a certain hour? And now I'm like, we don't have to do that. We can make do on our own. And she guilt, let go of that guilt and let go of the judgment. Another person isn't like me. So in our marriage and our family, we look back at our working geniuses and most of the arguments we had were because we didn't understand our geniuses. That's what I was just going to ask about the more about like, are there certain types of geniuses as well that like clash more than others? No, I don't think that it's about it's about when you don't understand them. They do. And in my case, like my wife and I are very similar. She's a W. I. The first two fifty thousand feet and thirty five thousand feet. Wonder invention. She we invented a game. We wrote a book. She wrote a musical about moms and, you know, she loves doing stuff like that. I'm an I. D. Which are the next two, which is invention. We both are both inventive and discerning. We have no G. E. or T. Galvanizing, enablement or tenacity. Doing things, staying on top of things is miserable to both of us. We once had the power turned off on our house because Laura, God bless her, didn't pay the bill and they they they reminded her three times and she lost the bill, the reminder. And we laugh about it now. But at the time, I was like, how can you do that? You know, we have to do this. We didn't realize, oh, I'm really terrible at that. And she was taking one for the team. So now we can realize, hey, we're going to make some mistakes because our nature and we're just going to go, you know, something that's who we are. And that's OK. And you know, we can even say to our kids. And so that when you talk about the nurturing thing, we can say, you know, here's how I'm wired. I love you. And we're trying our best to do this. But you know that we're not good at this part. So if we if we struggle with that, we're sorry. Yeah, we're trying our best and they can go. Yeah, you're who you are. When you feel like you have to be perfect and our kids, we have a student assessment. So teenage kids can do this. And when you realize that your son or daughter is not the way you are, you parent them a little differently. Oh, for sure. You're like, that would be huge. I have a son who's a WG. E and T are not his thing. Schoolwork is a challenge for him. Now, he works really hard. He gets A's and B's. But when when I think about like off the chart academics, I thought I'm pushing. I'm banging my head on a wall and his head on a wall. I'm going to accept that the way he does things is not necessarily the way that academia wants them done. And I'm going to stop trying to make him something he's not. It doesn't mean I'm going to have low standards for him. But every one of my kids has a different genius and I need to parent them for their geniuses rather than try to work on the things they're not good at, which we do. And we end up making our kids feel like they're less than. Oh, my goodness. I feel like the conversation is so much more open now. But I started this podcast almost 10 years ago. And I remember so many of the interviews that I would do with people who have gone off like on the entrepreneurship route or who were more visionary creatives, because that's like I said, what I attract, they would always talk about like how guilty they felt because their parents were like, no, you need to be this and you're going to college for this. And they were like, I was dead inside. Like I had zero energy all of the time. It's like and when you're young, you can kind of muscle through that a little bit. But as soon as you start life starts life thing and you get a little older, it's like you just don't have the energy for it. So I'll tell you my story because it goes with that. And I love the fact that I'm just thinking about all the people listening to this. And I hope there's some. So I grew up and my parents for a variety of reasons I won't give detail, but E and T, my working frustrations, which is enablement, which is do whatever you're told and finish it and do it perfectly. I was rewarded for that. And I thought that's how I was going to get love. So I did everything, my parents, my teachers, my coaches, my my bosses ever told me to do. And I did, I was literally doing it against my grain. I went to college, not very far from where you live. And I went to every class and I got straight A's. It was not my nature. I did it because I needed to earn approval and love. I got to the age 23. And was if people that knew me thought I was a perfectionist and I was a, it was the opposite of who I really was. I was grinding against my grain. And it was, I was exhausted. I was faking it. I felt like an imposter and I was miserable. And I thought, I'm never going to like my job. I'm never going to be successful. I'm never going to have peace. Yeah. And I finally figured out not in this, but that that's not who I was meant to be. We, the earlier you can understand your genius and the more you can align with that and stop feeling guilty for what you're not, the faster peace comes. I was 55 years old when I finally realized working genius and who I was and the wounds that came from trying to be something I wasn't. I want people when they're a lot younger to figure that out. For anyone that doesn't know me, I have started a lot of businesses and I will tell you that every single one came with so many worries and so many fears. It can be really terrifying because there are so many questions that you don't have the answer to. What if no one listens to my podcast? What if nobody buys my products? And I am so grateful that I have started all of them, especially Glossy and that I believed in the launch of my products because despite all the fears and hesitations, it also helps when you have a partner like Shopify on your side and Shopify is what I use for Glossy. So you can get started with your own design studio with hundreds of ready to use templates. Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store that matches your brand style. Accelerate your efficiency, whether you're uploading new products or trying to improve existing ones. Shopify is packed with helpful AI tools that write product descriptions, page headlines, and even enhance your product photography. And what if I get stuck? Shopify is always around to share advice with their award winning 24 seven customer service. It's time to turn those what ifs into a brand-new product. Turn to with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1 per month trial today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. I talk about the importance of sleep and reaching your goals all the time on this podcast, but I also know that you're probably wound pretty tight like I am. And you might have trouble transitioning from your daytime to your nighttime. So I added something that I absolutely love because you know, skin care is a big thing for me in 2026 and I love Osea's dream collection. It's really helped change that for me. Osea's dream night serum and dream night cream are clinically tested formulas powered by bio retinol and designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep. You guys know that I am all about making the things you're already doing work for you. So why not make this work for you in your sleep? So I love this because it really helps me wind down not only because of this beautiful scent and how it feels on my skin, but I'm really loving that it's something that supports my nighttime ritual while I sleep and it helps me settle in for the night because my skin feels so good. And again, it's got that nice lavender scent that I always associate to nighttime sleep because skin care truly is self-care you guys. So Osea's newest product in the dream collection is the dream bio retinol body serum. And let me tell you skin care for me this year is not just about my face, it's about my whole body. So you should make this a key part of your personal body care routine just like I am and I think you're going to fall in love with it. So it's a full body restorative treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a holistic blend of bio retinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender. I think the second that you put it on, you're going to feel the difference just like I did and you're going to see the difference. I mean, talk about looking like glass skin. I literally put it on and actually feel like I want to go somewhere because my skin looks so plump and hydrated and useful. So you guys give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skin care from Osea. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site wide with code earn at OseaMalibu.com. And trust me, you're going to love this so much. You're going to want to buy one for your friends. Oh my God, the freedom that you have. Like, so I'm just thinking of the freedom you would have had. Like, Justin, and what would you have done? And obviously I believe like, you know, there's so many beautiful lessons and all that. And God brings out good things out of a hard situation. No doubt. For sure, blah, blah, blah. I'm just kidding. I totally agree and I don't regret any of it. And, and like, imagine if that would have been cultivated and nurtured in you when you were young. Like, wow, like you. So you get the opportunity to do that with your kids and everybody else, you know, when I was a kid, I loved inventing things and discerning. I didn't know I didn't have the language for it. That was not valued in my family. It's not valued in early education. So I had gifts that I was sitting on that that when I did kind of try to exercise, people go, that's stupid. Why are you doing that? Mm hmm. Yeah, it's like. And that's one of the questions people ask is, when do you when do you when does your working genius get set? I you're born with it. It's a gift. Everybody I taught you this. No, I was like that when I was a kid. Yeah. The question is, were you invited to use it and recognized for it and and encouraged him? Yeah, I'm so grateful for all of these things now, because it's it gives so much more opportunity. I do wonder, like, if the world continues on with being able to learn more about these things, use these things. I feel like we'll probably have a lot more balanced world in a lot of different places, you know, yes. And you know something? I'm glad you just said that balance, because one of the things people talk about is burnout. And everybody thinks burnout is because you're working too much. In fact, burnout is because you're doing work that that drains you. When you're doing work that feeds you, work is actually generative. I can come home from work after a 10 hour day, 10 hours straight. And Laura will be like, you have a lot of energy. What's going on? I had a whole day of invention and discernment. It was so much fun. I was a bank teller when I was in college, three hours into it, I was ready to die. I would literally look at the clock and go, I think it just moved backward. I think it's going backward. And so again, one person's trash is another person's treasure. If we can do the kind of things that feed us, we don't get burned out. And so when people go, I think I'm burning out in my work and people go, you need to take more time off. They're like, so I can go home and ponder the fact that I'm going to have to come back to work and do stuff that burns me out. Or maybe I need to go to my boss or my colleagues and say, hey, look at my working geniuses. Do you think there's a way I could tap into my geniuses more? And usually the answer is, yeah, gosh, I didn't even know you were good at this. You like this? I'm so glad you're saying this because I was just going to say, what do we do if someone wakes up and they're like, my job is in all of this crap that I don't like. And it's not about leaving your job. Sometimes it is like I've been in a career, but usually it's not. Usually it's about going to your team and going, this is who I am. And and without changing your job title or your org structure, you can go, hey, why don't we just give you more of these responsibilities? Why doesn't so and so take these from you? And people go like, I just doubled the joy that I'm going to experience in my job without leaving the company, without having to argue for a different job title. One guy, though, one guy actually we talked to had a. Performance review and he had a bad year and it was going to be a bad review. And so the night before he took working genius and he got his report back and he brought it with him to his performance review and he gave it to his boss and his boss's boss and said, hey, before we get into my performance review, can you guys look at this? And they literally looked at the one page thing and they said, well, no wonder you had a terrible year. You're in the wrong job. This is a horrible job for you. He's like, I know. And they're like, we have another job over there. You'd be awesome at that. He said, I got a raise and and moved into a job not because just because I showed them who I was. Most managers want to use you and your skills well, but if they don't have language for it, they don't know how to do it. And he said, I just showed it to him and said, this is who I am. And they're like, yeah, you should be in this job. Changed his life, changed his career trajectory. It was all because he just looked at who he really was and shared it. So good. And he probably got hired because they liked him and he was a fit. You know, he was a fit for the team. And so that's the hardest part is I've had people who were a fit. And I'm like, I'm looking back at this. I'm like, oh, God, I wish I would have been able to put them through this because I probably could have figured out what they were. Well, I would have figured out what they were good at. Lori, so many companies let go of people that are cultural fits, but they're just in there. We like to say, like, do they belong on the bus? Do they? Are they a cultural fit? But then are they in the right seat on the bus? And you should never take somebody off the bus who's just not in the right seat. Just find them a different seat. And I've talked to CEOs who said after doing working genius, they almost let go of some of their best employees because they just couldn't do one part of the job. And then they realized, oh, well, if you just get help from this person over here, they can help you do that. And they're like, I almost fired her. And now I realize she just nobody can do all aspects of a job. Well, so it's so important. I love what you just said. If they're a fit, find the right seat for them. Now, some into the small organization like I love you, but I just don't have a seat at all. But then you can at least say to them, I love you. You're a great fit. I want to find another place for you. I just don't have a place for you here as opposed to saying you fail, that I'm rejecting you. Yeah, that's a much it's much more empowering and feels better for the person who has to let that person go because that sucks. You don't want to, especially when you really like the person. It's also so empowering for that person to not build a story in their head around like, you know, they can actually say, yeah, that's not work that I love. And it'll inform them on what they need to go look for, which is. You know, it's funny when I my first job out of college, Laurie, I was there for two years and and I survived. Some people didn't survive even the two years, but it wasn't successful for me. I was bad. It was data analysis. That's not me. Meg Whitman, who was the went on to become the CEO of gosh, of. eBay and Nike and then Hewlett Packard. Is it to know it? Was she Nike? No, I think it was just eBay and then he would pack. She actually pulled me aside one day and said, Pat, you're not good at this job. She said, but you'd be a really good partner one day because I got this part up here. But this part down here was just like crushing me. And it was really interesting that she said that because now I look back and I realized, yeah, I had the working geniuses of a partner, not of an analyst. But they were hiring people to be analysts without understanding what their skills were. They were just like, did you get good grades? Can you do a good interview? Great. Well, I was never going to be successful in that job. It was exactly set up for failure. Man, I've met college kids who said, I have a job lined up after I get to college. I'm at what you're working genius. And this one guy said, I'm AI'm a wonderer and an enabler. I said, what's your job going to be? And they go cold call sales. And I'm like, oh, son, I'm afraid you're going to hate that job. And he and he was like, I already hate it. And I have even started. And I said, I know it. It really doesn't fit for you. And it's like, why put yourself through two years of self-flagellation? Fine. There's no such thing as a good job. It's a good job for you based on how you're wired. That is the flip of the last 20 years. Yes. It just I remember when I was younger, it was like, OK, what are the good jobs now pick from those? You know, that was it. What are the good jobs now pick from those? It's like, you know, Lori, none of those were good for me. As people are getting laid off and I hate what's going on with AI, some AI is necessary, some of it's terrible. But as people are getting laid off, one of the things they need to do is realize you are not a computer programmer. You are a person with gifts. Know what your working geniuses are and don't think, oh, no, I studied computer programming and AI is doing all of that. Say, no, what are my gifts and how can I use those in any field? But when people think I'm I'm stuck in what I majored in or the field that I think even I'm a lawyer, I have to be a lawyer. Now, there's lots of different kinds. But if you know what your gifts are, use those in any field. But if you define yourself by your by your function or your field or your degree, you're going to feel stuck and victimized by stuff that goes on around you. So figure out your genius and live toward those, not toward your degree. Oh, my God, this is so empowering. I so I never graduated high school. I literally only finished eighth grade with that. Oh, that is crazy. Yeah. But now I'm like so obsessed with I've you know, I've started multiple amazing businesses and I thought I was so dumb. I just all.  Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, college, they've all gone to college, but it's a boondoggle. And, and now I like the college they go to. They go, my son, the last one, he's at Auburn and we really like the college. But college today versus what it used to be, it's so different. The biggest reason to go to college is so you don't feel bad about not having gone to college because you really didn't miss because people that didn't go to college are just as successful, often more so hungrier. You can learn more by reading books. It's what I did. Only disadvantage you have is that you might wonder, what did I miss out on? And the answer is nothing. Yeah, I think I felt that way for a little while. And then I was like, oh, I was out, you know, I was out there getting life experience for show. But now it's just, I always think of that because I'm like, when people talk about their kids needing to go to college, I'm like, it's just if you can figure out this, this is so powerful. If you can figure out what your genius is, then you can read all the books on that. You can find all the people of what they've done. You can figure out who you need around you. And it's it's insane how now figuring this out for me, because you can, you can imagine like the absolute guilt and shame. And I just thought I was the biggest loser for so many years. I was like, I'm not going to amount to anything. I'm a loser. I'm broke, all the things. And then figuring this out and getting the right people around me, I just, I specifically learn now in the things that light me up. And I understand this because I could go eight hours learning something and loving it where I couldn't sit still in school for a second, you know. Praise God. What a wonderful thing to realize that. And for all the people out there listening, I don't have a lot of money or I did go to college, but I'm not using my major or I didn't go to college. Or who cares? And that's, and if you did send your kids to college or you went to college, I did fine. But that is not what it's about finding what you're meant to be and what you meant to do and doing that. And even though, like, as my kids get out of college, I just want them to find that thing. Yeah, totally. And if their thing is to start a coffee store, that's great. If their thing is to be a doctor, now you do have to go to education to that. I don't want people to fly a plane or do operation on me without having to get in the education. But most things in life don't require college. Yeah. Yep. Totally. I remember I was like, well, I love working out and I love helping people work out and I was like, let's start here. So that's interesting because there's a lot of different things that you can start in that, you know, I started growing that. And I was like, OK, I don't think this is like a long term thing or the thing that's going to make a ton of money. But how could I take this and turn it into something that could? It's just it's so I'm so obsessed with the fact that this is available to everybody. I just want to hear a couple more. Maybe just tell me, like, what's been some of the most shocking things that you've learned or something that you really love that has applied to business and then one for family could be stories, could be anything. OK, last thing I want to say about the college thing is what's necessary is humility, curiosity and learning. If you get that through college, then college works for you, but you don't need college to do that. So I just because not like anti college, but it's like it's all about learning and curiosity and humility. So what did I learn? I remember a pastor and this kind of gets it who wrote to us right after the working genius came out and said he had been a pastor for 20 years and he felt like a like a fake. And we were like, why? And he said, because. I can't write a homily or a sermon. My friends who are pastors can go out, walk in the woods and come up with a three part series and I just grind and I it's not easy for me. And I don't know why I can't come up with a message for for Sunday. And I just thought if this is so hard for me, maybe I should have been a pastor, maybe I'm just faking it. And then he looked at his working genius type and it's like, would you like to counsel people and help people that are suffering and do one on one? And he's like, oh, yeah, I love that part. I said, yes, see, that's part of being a pastor, too. And you know, that pastor that loves to give that sermon or that homily here doesn't like doing that, probably. And I know I've met Catholic priest who go, I don't really like counseling people, but I love, you know, and it's like you are not. And he goes, I'm not AI'm not a fraud. I'm just I don't look like them. And I love the fact that people will stop feeling like they're fraudulent because they're not good at everything, but realize they're unique and not one pastor is not another pastor. When a teacher is not a teacher is not a teacher. A CEO is not a parent is not a parent is not a parent. So that's my favorite thing. And that kind of goes around both. Yeah. And in the family thing, I just think that my wife and I, I now delight in things in her. And I think her and me, too, that we used to get frustrated about. I see the features that we thought were flaws in one another. And now we like, we're like, I love that about you. Yeah, we can actually use them now. We're like, wait, that would be good for that. Yeah. And I don't want her to be great at the things she she's not great at. That's not who I married. I can't I can't be like, oh, well, how come you can't be great? It's like, would you like this other stuff about me? Yeah, well, it doesn't go with that. So let's figure out a way to do that. Yeah, then let's focus on that. OK, one last question that just popped up for me that I'm like, that's really made me think. OK, so for the people because I don't have the detail portion and you said, is that you who doesn't have the details or is that your way? Yes, no, neither of us do. OK, OK. No, that's right. We have the power turned off. OK, do you guys have trouble like remembering like dates and telling stories? Like, is it hard to tell? So I'm also like, I love to speak though and podcast and I'm like, I don't know. Maybe it was 2008, maybe it was 2014, but it makes me feel like I'm crazy. Like, no, it's not. That's that's different people have different recall on those things. I can miss things by almost a decade. That's how I feel. And I'm like, it's really bad for a podcaster who says a date one time in their podcast another day. And I've worked with thousands of hundreds and maybe thousands of teams over the years. I was with a team yesterday working with the doing doing consulting. And people will say, tell me a story about this. And I'm like, and people around me will go, well, Pat, what about that? What about that? What about that? How did I forget that? Of course, now that I'm getting older, I'm thinking, oh, no, is it because I'm getting older? But my 19 year old said to me just this morning, we were walking to get coffee. He goes, dad, I'm forgetting everything. I was like, yeah, because you're staying up too late. Yeah, that's what it is. So I can call it. I'm getting old. He stays up too late. Some people have a mind for detail memories and dates. Some people don't. I'm terrible at that. It's just we're wired differently. Yeah, that's making me feel so much better because I'm like, do I have been that way my whole life? It's like I can be. Yeah, you just if you're not detailed, of course, you're not going to remember the details of exact stories and dates and things like that. That's actually quite freeing. And what about that person who you go, hey, here's a challenge. You need to come up with a solution. They're like, and you go, we'll just do this. And they go, how come I can't do that? It's like, is there something wrong with my brain? It's like, no, a guy that works with me. We have the same Myers-Briggs type, but I have invention in working genius. And he doesn't. He is your type. He's discernment and galvanizing. So he's creative, but he's not like the same kind of creative as I am. Like I like write stories and come up with stuff. And he's like, he used to say, what's wrong with me? Hadn't I have a similar personality? And I can't do that. And he did work in. He goes, oh, OK. He has a different genius than I do. Similarly, he has G like you do galvanizing. I don't. I'm like, how can I get so burned out when I have to remind people of things? Because I don't have galvanizing. Yeah, it's so powerful. Well, I am so grateful for you and this conversation. And I'm really excited that everybody is going to get the chance to go through this, whether it's something they just want to do for their families, which is huge. Or if it's something you want to do for both. And I think business is absolutely life changing for anybody that runs a team so you guys can take the assessment at working genius.com. I will put this all in the show notes. You can go to working genius.com and you can use code earn EARN for 20 percent off. Again, I'm going to put literally going to put all of these directions and the links with the coupon code down below in the show notes. But thank you so much. Thank you so much for doing this, for taking the time to find people who can do the details to make sure this comes out in the world for us. Great. It's a pleasure. It really is. It's been so much fun. In fact, I have no idea how long we've been on here. So that's part of the thing, too. But that's how I know it's my genius is I looked up and like, oh, Lord, we've been on a while. OK, this is great. So all right. Thank you so much for coming on, Pat. And you guys definitely go and check that out. It's going to be a game changer. It's going to save you a lot of time and a lot of money. And until next time, everyone earn your happy. Bye bye.

=== FILE: The Automatic Millionaire Mindset (Why “Boring” Money Wins) with David Bach [fWxAA2QVuBc].txt ===

 what would you say is a belief for you that you had to break in order to be the person that you are now? Know that you don't need to be rich to become an investor. It doesn't need to be perfect and it doesn't need to be complicated. Don't spend time especially as an entrepreneur trying to pick which cryptocurrency to buy, which memecoin to buy, which NFT to buy. Just focus on your business and have your money be born. Good things happen to boring money. When your money's sexy, when something's exciting to talk about financially, usually something's wrong with it. David, welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you for having me. I'm really thrilled to be here. I'm so excited. Well, last time I saw you was in Florence and you have this beautiful, for anyone who can't see, you have this beautiful Florence background that I'm getting to look at. But I think that that's actually kind of where I want to start. We're going to go off topic because, you know, yes, you've written 10 New York Times bestsellers, which is absolutely mind-blowing and insane. I'm going to dig into that insane. But you live in Florence now, David. What would you say are your top three favorite things about living in Florence? Oh, wow. First of all, behind me for those who can't see is a picture of the Ponte Vecchio. That's not actually the Ponte Vecchio live. It's a class of grain screen. But my favorite things about living in Florence, I love living in Italy. Really, it's an incredible country. So I like the pace of life in Florence. I came from New York City. And New York City, I was there for 18 years. I'm a city kid. I lived in San Francisco before that. There's a slower pace in Italy. There's a slower pace in Florence. You learn how to slow down, at least I have, gone through the learning process of how to slow down to the speed of life. Right? Because like, I'm a very high energy person like you, very high energy, I've been an entrepreneur all my life. Go, go, go, go, go. And in Italy, you learn to slow down. Because if you can't learn to slow down in Italy, Italy is not the right. Europe's just a different pace. In Europe, people work to live, they don't live to work. And we got to meet through your friend Rob Murgatroyd. And I know Rob's gone through the same experiences. It transforms you if you let it transform you in a good way. So living in Italy has transformed me because of the people, speed of life, the beauty, the food, the friendship, the fun. Like, that's it. I mean, and so a lot of my life is, in a way, it feels like being back in college. You know, freshman year in the dorms, it's a, it's one party after another. That's one thing I see with following Rob is I'm like, you're so social there. Like you're, you're so incredibly social. What would you say this social life has done for you, just creatively, entrepreneur wise, what does that look like? Oh, wow. Well, first of all, it's totally different, right? Again, I lived in New York 18 years, my wife was there 30 years, we were both high power career people. And we had friends in New York, but you know, everybody's so busy, that it's really hard to have a real social life and have a really real deep, meaningful friendships. You plan a party in New York, you plan it two months out. It's this big deal to get people RSVP who comes, who shows up kind of thing. Here, you, it's a Thursday and you send out a message to 20 friends about having dinner on Saturday and 20 friends get back to you in 10 minutes and say they'll be there. Right? Like so, because so many of us have moved from somewhere else, and we've all kind of moved here because we've had kids and we're family focused and we put our kids in their international school, we have more time on our hands because a lot of us have kind of had reached that point in some financial independence. We have a lot more time to hang out together and we do. We have a lot of, a lot of, it's almost overwhelming how much social stuff it can be because in the beginning you just want to do everything. You want to go everywhere, you want to travel, you want to see everybody. And then you sort of have to learn to slow down, but it's, I could do three things a day if I wanted to easily. We could go out every single night if we wanted to. So I don't know, it's beautiful. We've made some really, really good friendships here, like kind of like going back to the days of college because you have so much time. Like you really get to know people because they're away from their environments too. And then I think the last thing is that you make these kind of friendships that when people, a lot of people come here for a year or two and then they move back to wherever they came from. And they kind of came here for a sabbatical. Those friendships become friendships for life. I can go travel all over the U.S. and kind of around the world now. People who I've met here, when I go there, I can go see them and it's like catching up like it was yesterday. So that's really special. I highly recommend it. You and Chris would love it. Rob is always like, what, what are you thinking? You thinking of coming over here? What would you, if you could bottle something up for all of us entrepreneurs over here because you were us, if you could somehow allow us to get a piece of it, how could we translate some of that back here? 100% I would not, first of all, I would not wait. So don't wait to quote unquote retire. Like in the automatic millionaire book, this update, I talk about the idea of taking many retirements. And so a lot of my entrepreneur friends hear me talk about how I did this and see how it's changed my life. And they go, oh, but I could never do anything like that. And I go, first of all, I didn't just do it, right? Like I planned it 18 months in advance. So there was a whole planning stage, how to get the business ready to run without me, how to bring my kids and move them to another school. We were only going to go for nine months originally. But I would tell somebody, you don't have to go for a year. What I would say is, if any part of you wants to go live in Europe or move somewhere else, go for three months. Like, like if you, if you and Chris are like, you know, that would be actually really cool. All right. Then the question is, do you really want to do it? Where do you want to go and when do you want to go? And as an entrepreneur, like your year, probably this year is very booked up. But if I went into your calendar and started looking at the middle of next year, I bet between June of next year and the end of next year, I'd find white space. And so like if it were specifically you and Chris, I'd be like, okay, well, where do you want to go? Let's work on it for 18 months out. I have friends who I've coached over a period of time that took seven years for them to take a break. But now they've taken it. Right. So a lot of times you get the idea, but it takes you a while kind of has to formulate. I just wouldn't wait because people take their life and their health for granted. And I wouldn't, I wouldn't wait five to 10 years. I would figure out how to do it in the next 36 months. Because once you do it once, you will realize that there's a whole world out there for you that you probably never even thought was possible. Oh, I love that advice. And that's a great, that's a great place for us to open you. This is your 20th anniversary of the automatic millionaire. You've written 10. Is that insane to you? You know, it is insane because the time has gone by like this. So fast. I've been doing this for 33 years. This is my, this is my 10th New York Times was signed book, but this was the first, this was the book I launched on Oprah 20 years ago. Wow. You know, when the book launched on Oprah, it was the number one best signed book of the year. And it spent 31 weeks on New York Times best seller list. It sold millions of copies. And this is the fifth time it's been updated. So to put it back out in hardcover for a 20 year anniversary edition and put it back in another generation's hands is like super, super satisfying. And it's been incredible to hear from readers too. Like, you know, how their lives have transformed. Did you have any inkling? Like tell me just the process leading up to this. So this is insane to me that it's now updated the fifth time as well. And the reason for that is because so much has changed while so much has also stayed the same, which we're going to dig it. We're going to dig into that, but it is crazy that a book on money that you wrote 20 years ago, and even though there's updates is still like people, there's so much wisdom in this book that's so life changing. Like, where were you at when you launched this book? Did you know that this was going to be what it is? Oh, Lori, you ask such good questions because from an entrepreneur standpoint, like if I go back into time, I had a very successful career at Morgan's family. And I was a financial advisor living in the Bay Area. And I'd written two books. I'd written my first book for women and money was called Smart Women Finish Rich. Yep. And that had started my career. That was like my whole mission in life. I wanted to teach a million women to be smarter about money so they could protect themselves, protect their families and teach their kids about money. Like I had this whole mission. And that was the beginning of my career. My business outside of Morgan's family was I created a financial education company to teach millions women about money and ultimately did that and then create a program for couples and money. But in the beginning, it wasn't a real business. It was like I wrote Smart Women, Finish Rich, I wrote Smart Couples, Finish Rich, and I was a financial advisor running around the country trying to spread the message. And I came to the point where I was like, all I really want to do with my life is teach people about money. I don't want to be a financial advisor anymore. And I was flying back and forth to New York constantly to do television shows. It was before you could do things like what we're doing. And you would have to go to New York and go on a TV show to get the message out. And I said to my wife, you know what I want to do? I want to move to New York and I want to just really, really try to go big time with this. And to her credit, she's like, well, if you really want to do this, then let's go. This is, you know, we didn't have kids yet. And that was the first entrepreneurial leap. I mean, that was me leaving total secure, safe career. Like many of your listeners who have done, right, or in the process of doing, like I didn't leave my day job until my other business was getting going. You know, I stayed at Morgan Stanley and worked on a plan there for four years before I really left. I was like, okay, I can leave Morgan Stanley. When I moved to New York with my wife, we knew no one. And we knew we had about a year's worth of financial run rate, right? Like, we knew the business had this much money coming in for a year. I was leaving my Morgan Stanley career wasn't going to be easy to go back to that career. So when we went to New York, we had a, we in my mind had to make it work. Like even though I didn't necessarily blow up the bridge behind me, I felt like I did. Right. When I landed in New York, it was like, I didn't have the idea for the automatic millionaire book. My idea was all moved in New York and get on national television and that will change my, that'll change my life. That'll give me the ability to reach more people. Then I got the idea for the automatic millionaire book. And so everything kind of started to happen. I was on all the morning shows. I was on the Today Show, CNBC, CBS, Fox. And then I got the automatic millionaire book idea and then, you know, things just took off. So what was that kind of all in moment for you? Like, I know a lot of entrepreneurs, like, sometimes it's hard to differentiate between, you know, like the excitement for it. And if you should do it, like, what do you tell people when they're getting that sort of message that was coming through for you, like around automatic millionaire? You know, well, it's, it's even before the book, right? It's that moment in time where you know, you want to make a change. And that happened to me actually because of my grandmother. My grandmother, who was my first money, really my first mentor. That's why the smart women finish rich exists because my grandmother taught me about money at a young age. And the book was very much based on her lessons, because she became a self-made millionaire starting with nothing at age 30 without a college education. So she was this remarkable woman that completely changed the direction of our family for generations. And when she, before she passed away, my grandmother had a stroke. And my grandmother, we had to fly her up to the Bay Area and put her in a nursing home. And I was finishing smart women, smart women finish rich. And I asked my grandmother a question about, you know, did she have any regrets in life? And what happened was she shared with me that she did. And she went through five of them. And when she took me through her regrets, she went all the way back to age 17. And she could remember them all very specifically. She was 86th the time. And she said, the lesson's not in my regrets. It's in why I have them. And she's like, so that's my last lesson to you. And she said, the reason I have these regrets is that I came to a fork in the road in my life. And there was a choice to take the safe road or take the risky road. And every time I got to the fork in the road, the little girl inside of me wanted to take the risk. And the big girl inside of me said, no, let's take the safe road. And all five of my regrets are what could have been if I had taken the risk. So she put her hand on me. And she's like, David, you're still young. And you're going to come to forks in the road. And my last gift and lesson to you is let your little boy come out and play. When you get to that fork in the road and you and she said, you know, it won't just be the big boy that's you, it'll be your parents, company, society. There will be other people telling you why you shouldn't go for your dream. And I'm here to tell you not knowing I'm probably going to never get out of this bed, that you, at that fork in the road moment, should let your little boy come out and play. And I went back to my office, Lauren, and sat in my garage, underneath my office, in an orinda theater square, and started crying in the car and looked in the rear of your mirror and told myself, okay, we're yours, David, and we're getting you out of here. And we're going to go do what you really want to go do with your life, which was I wanted to go teach at the time of Million Women About Money. And so that was the moment. But in between the moment of that, and then actually doing it, is all the stuff that goes on with as an entrepreneur. So much fear, right? Like it's scary to walk away from what you have to the unknown. And by the way, you do this over and over again as an entrepreneur. I don't know that the fear actually ever goes away. You just become a little bit tougher. You've gone through so many rides up and down, and you learn, you also like kind of learn the lessons of like, okay, when things are really bad, that doesn't mean they're staying bad. Right? Things improve. I have almost everything horrible that's ever happened to me during my career. There's always been something beautiful at the end of it. Out of everything that's gone wrong, something else good comes from it. So I keep reminding myself of that all these years. So that is a belief that has served me, that has never let me down. What a beautiful story. Did that give you, you wrote, Smart Women, Finish Rich. What made you so passionate about helping women? I know you said it's your grandmother, but are we really that like, are women so different from how we think about money? What have you found through the years? And how you money and what we need to know? You are different. And I'll tell you what's different. I'll tell you what my motivation was. So I didn't know how different things were because I grew up with the grandmother that was in charge of the family finances. Okay, yeah. So I just thought it was normal that women were in charge of the money. My grandmother was teaching us how to buy stocks at age seven. Wow. She was in charge of the finances of my family, of her family. And then she taught my father how to invest and he became a financial advisor. I just thought this was how it operated. So I come into this with my dad who's a financial advisor. And in the first month, I sit in meetings with him. And unfortunately, or, you know, it depends how you look at this, in the first 30 days of my career as a financial advisor, I sat in three meetings almost back to back in less than 30 days, like week after week with widows, where the husband had died. And in all three cases, the husband had died suddenly. It wasn't like they had been sick. They'd dropped dead. And in the third, in every meeting, the wife would turn to my father and say, Marty, my husband, Bill told me if anything happens to me, I just come in here and you would take care of me. So tell me what I need to know. How do I read a broker statement? Where is my money coming from? How do I write checks? So like the third meeting like this, I could, Lori, I closed the door to my dad's office and I go, what is going on in here? And he said, what do you mean? I'm like, dad, you have all these clients dying and you're sitting down meeting after meeting at the worst possible point in their life, teaching these women how to read their broker statements. And he said, oh, well, David, your grandmother was not the norm. I go, well, what do you mean? He's like, well, we have all these clients that are older, but the husbands are in charge of the finances. The wives might come to some of the appointments. There's really the husband who's been in charge of the money. And I said, well, that's dad. It's not a good system. You can see the writing on the wall here. So I went to lunch with my mom. My mom had been involved in the business, told my mom what was going on, third meeting of how the widow. And I said, I think I'm going to teach a class for women and money and just invite the women clients. And my mom had been in charge of the database back in the day. She's like, oh, that's a great idea. She goes, but you know, it's not just widowhood. It's divorce. So she's like, all my friends are getting wiped out by divorce. So Lori, what happened is I basically created a class for my women clients, and I started talking about these issues. What are the issues that affect women? Number one, you live longer. You don't live a little long. On average, you live seven to 10 years longer than a man that's in your life. My dad passed away a year ago. My mom is 84. She lives in a beautiful senior living facility. Go to any senior living facility around America. Go into the dining hall where they have lunch or dinner. And you will notice that 80% of the people there are women. Because you outlive men significantly. All my groundlers outlive the grandfathers. So you live longer. So you need more money. That's number one. Number two, you have less money put aside for retirement. Why? Because on average, women take a period of time off for having children, childbearing years. And that impacts how much money they set aside for retirement accounts. So there's less money put in retirement accounts and there's less money put in Social Security. So women have financially less money set aside. Husband gets sick first. Money, the wife often they go through the money when the husband's sick. So the wife is left with less. And the other issue is divorce. When women and men get divorced, if you don't know where the money is, you don't get half. So women often have their income levels drop and their net worth drop falling divorce and a man goes up. So these are all the things I talked about for years. And my message to women is basically never change, which is I don't care if you're married to a local bank president. I don't care who you're married to. You need to be in charge of your own finances. And today what's different is women are staying single longer. More women are running company, more women are starting businesses than men are. And yet, often women still delegate the finances. And if there's one thing you should never delegate in your life, it is your financial well-being. I'm here to tell you whether you're married, single, widowed, divorced, if you want to be powerful over your life, you have to be in charge of your finances. Period. Like drop the mic and the discussion. These are some of my last podcasts I'm doing. You have to be in charge of your money. You have to be in charge of your economy. And it's not enough to be a successful entrepreneur if you're not actually dialing in your finances personally. And so many entrepreneurs don't take care of their personal finances. What have you seen around when you start working with women or when this whole conversation started? Do you have to work with a lot of mindset first? What does that look like? Oh, it's a very good question. So when I first started doing these seminars, they were our clients, right? But they would bring friends. And women would get up in the room when I'm telling these stories and they would tell more stories. They'd go, what he just said is totally true. And so the beauty of teaching set, well, you do women events. You know what this is like? The energy in a room when it's just women without men is totally different. Totally. Because what happens is you will you share at a completely different level. You bond differently. So for me being the only man in a room share, I was sort of just like, you know, almost like a fly on the wall, even though I was teaching in the front, I was also listening, right? And so I think people who came to my events were already pre selected, they came there because they wanted to be better with their money. They came there because they knew that there was something they needed to do. I don't know that I meet many women that say, you know, this isn't important. I think 30 years ago, there wasn't as much of a realization as how important it was. And I think today, whether you're in your 30s, your 40s, your 50s, your 60s, you know, you've seen your mom go through financial issues, you've seen the impact financially of divorce, you've seen how women are living longer, you know, these things are real issues. It's just often people aren't are dealing with it. And I think my experience has been women make better investors than men. They are way better at being long term focused. They take they don't they're not investing on tips and gambling. All studies show women actually have better performance on investing. And when when women get involved managing their own money, they realize, you know, this actually isn't that complicated. And I can totally do this. And then it's very empowering. And then they tell their friends about it. Yeah, when it's one of the most empowering things, it's funny, because it's one of the scariest things to look at, if you haven't looked at it, for some reason, I don't know why it just is. And then once you start, it's like, you don't ever want to stop because you realize everything comes from that. You can do so much with money. So I know throughout your career and throughout your life, you have probably changed the way that you perceive money, based on all of your life experiences and what you've learned and what you've gone through. But I know that when you and I got to meet in person in Florence, we were I was a part of Rob Murgatroyd and Kim Murgatroyd's mastermind, and you were coming in to speak. And you had just gone through a pretty life altering experience that kind of changed the way that you looked at money. And you almost you almost weren't able to come. Can you kind of tell me about that? Yeah, well, for example, it was such a special small event to meet you at. And I had just really recently met Rob. And he had asked me to come and talk to that event as really like as a friend as a favor. Yeah. And I had said, yes. But I had almost died and been in the hospital a couple months right before I had gotten meningitis and ended up in the hospital and for 17 days was in a coma for four days. Oh my god. So, you know, when I came out of the hospital, first of all, I wasn't all better by the time I saw you. I was I was able to be able to be there. But I wasn't fully my brain was fully turned back on again. And you know, I have always talked about the idea that you should live your life to the fullest now. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you become the leader that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy. And I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap. And I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built into you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you, you can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. You know how much sleep affects everything from your mood, your energy, and you hear me talk about this with skin all the time. But let's be really honest, unwinding at night for entrepreneurs and anyone who's used this podcast is probably pretty challenging because we love to replay the day and think of our big goals and all of the things that we want and need to be doing the next day. That's why my nighttime routine has become a non-negotiable. It's become super sacred to me. And I've been using OSEA products and their dream collection has completely up leveled how I wind down at night. Their dream night serum and their dream night cream are clinically tested formulas powered by bio retinol. And they're designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep, which I really need right now. I wake up feeling like my skin actually got to rest. It feels softer. It feels smoother and it feels really nourished. And as someone who struggles with really dry skin, I love how rich and creamy these feel without being heavy. So my nightly wind down ritual isn't just about skincare. It's about creating a sense of serenity at the end of the day. So it's choosing products that work while you sleep. And this helps me slow down, settle in and take care of myself because skincare really is self care. And I am also obsessed with the scent of these. And I'm excited to share that OSEA just launched their newest product in the dream collection, the dream bio retinol body serum, which is a full body overnight treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a blend of bio retinol, red seaweed, magnesium, and lavender, which is why I love the smell. It helps reduce visible dryness and dullness, improves elasticity and leaves your skin feeling softer and smoother by the morning. This is absolutely becoming a core part of my body care routine in 2026. So give your skin a rest with clean clinically tested skincare from OSEA. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site wide with code earn at oseamalibu.com. That's O-S-E-A-M-A-L-I-B-U.com. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet ORA, Brevo's AI assistant. ORA helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations and AI driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and ORA. All of my financial planning has been around looking at your values, looking at what's most important to you and living your dreams now. And I had talked about, in fact, with your group, but groups right, you know, that whole year, I talked about this idea like, if you only have three years left to live,  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, my fifties was like another reminder of like truly don't wait to live your best life. That's the spiritual side on the on the business side and the financial side. I had the whole wake up call like, whoa, like I've been managing our own my money, our family's money. I'm a thought this is what I do for a living. Of course, I've managed our own money. And Alisha was complete. My wife is completely uninvolved. She knew the money was there, but she's exactly where I talk about in my books. Had I died, then she would not have known what will who she she wouldn't have wanted to manage the money. She would have had to go out and find a financial advisor. And so my realization in the hospital was and people should ask themselves this question. If my partner died tomorrow, what do I need to know about the finances? And the answer is everything. And everything, especially when you have your own businesses, like you and Chris, both have you have your own you have separate businesses. What would Chris need to know about your business? What would you need to know about the business? What would he need to know about the finances? What would you need to know about the finance? Everybody needs to run these fire drills. And so when I ran that fire drill, being in a hospital, not sure how long I'm going to be in a hospital, not sure my brain was going to turn back on, not knowing the password to my phone, my computer, my bank account, none of that was coming back to me. Once I got out of the hospital, I fixed everything. You know, we hired a financial advisor, I engaged my wife in the process of hiring a financial advisor. She now gets involved in all the calls with the financial advisor. We redid our will, we cleaned up our trust. We cleaned everything up, as it really should have already been, but I wasn't expecting to get sick in 55. Right. And you know, and smart when we finished rich there, I talked about the average age of widowhood is 59. 59. And I am 59. And I've had three best friends, Laurie, the three true best friends, my best friend, two best friends from high school and my best friend from college, my roommate, they've already passed away. Wow. Regards passed away under the age of 59. So, you know, one thing I wanted to say, because I know most of your listeners are women is like, these things really matter, actually. You know, like, if you were going to end this podcast, and we said nothing else, and you just throw like, what if you're married, what would I need to know if my husband died tomorrow? You would need to know everything. Yeah. Yeah. And if you're rich is like a Bible, you can take it out, you can open it up, and you can really go through like a manual like this is all the stuff you need to know. Sorry, I cut you off. No, I love it. Every book is a master class. And I think that's the great thing about, you know, especially you re releasing this is you can sit and get so like get a master class in automatic millionaire and rich women finish or smart women finish rich. But what would you say is a belief for you or a belief from when you grew up that you had to break in order to be the person that you're you are now like a money belief? Oh, wow, such a good question. I can tell you exactly. Okay, I believe when I was young, that if I made more money than I would be rich. I believe I believe the myth that you had to make more money to save and invest. So when I came out of college, I was in credit card debt, like so many people. But I came out of college and I had AI was in commercial real estate. And I was being paid like $1,200 a month, right? It was a draw against commission. And I thought if I can make $50,000 a year, I'm gonna be I'm gonna be I'm gonna be rolling. Yeah. And then I made $50,000 a year and I was not rolling. I was like, Well, of course, Laurie, it's not enough money, I need to make $75,000. But when I made $75,000, I spent $85,000. And then I'm like, Well, of course, it's not enough, I need to make $100,000. And then I got to $100,000, and I still was spending everything I made. That's actually when I met the Macintyre's that the automatic millionaire book is based off of this ordinary couple that came into my office able to retire in their early 50s. And their income was $53,000 that year. And they had total financial freedom. And here I am, this kid who's making a bunch of money, and I'm still living paycheck to paycheck. So I was under the mistaken belief that you have to make more money to save more money. And that's what a lot of people think. And I can tell you that you can be broke on any income. You have to make the decision to change the way money flows to you. The automatic millionaire is a masterclass in paying yourself first. Your finances first, whatever it is. And in business, you've got to make sure profit dollar number one goes to you. Because we have a lot of entrepreneurs listening, they're self employed, and they've been working with accountants who tell them how to run all their expenses through the business. And as their income goes up, they keep increasing your expenses so they don't pay taxes. And at the end of the year, they're still broke. So they have more stuff, have a nicer house, they have nicer cars, they have nicer clothes. But if the business doesn't keep going up, they then turn upside down when the economy changes. So it's not what you make, it's what you keep matters. Okay, so you say there are 10 specific things that we should be doing right now with our money. Do you want to walk through some of the ones that you think are most important for my demographic? Yeah, absolutely. Well, gosh, you've covered so much stuff actually as a great leading up to this. But so I would go I wrote some news things down so I don't miss anything. Number one, decide what you want. People work in business all the time, and they're not clear about what they want. You have to decide what is you actually really want. Yeah, what is it that you want? It does. What is it you want? Why do you want it? And then are you actually working on what you really want? And then who's done that already? Because you don't have to figure out everything on your own, like you teach master classes, right, you've got networking, like, the best way to learn faster is to learn by people who've done what you want to do already. But you have to get clarity around what what is you really want to do. This is the mindset part. I fundamentally believe in manifesting. But my whole career has been about manifesting. But manifesting is not sitting on the couch with a, okay, I want this, it's actually you have to move your feet. Right, like, you know, only way ideas actually come to fruition is if you work on them. So the mindset part of it is that now if I break into the money issues, these are the things you have to do. I've got I have nine of them here. Number one, these are these are not sex-emely spit. So every okay, so number one is you need a will. You know, will or living trust. So 60% of people listening today, because it's just a statistical average, six out of 10 Americans don't even have a will. So you need a will. You need a living trust, depending on the state that you're in. If your will is over five years old, it needs to be updated. Most people do wills when they have kids, and their will now is 10 or 15 or 20 years old. It's almost in many cases, it's useless. So you have to have a will. Number two, you need your beneficiaries at I'm giving you like real concrete things here, you need your beneficiaries updated and correct on your IRA accounts, your retirement accounts and your insurance policies. If you've gone through a divorce and you haven't updated your beneficiaries, there's a really good chance you've left somebody on like your ex-husband, who shouldn't be the beneficiary. Can't tell you how often I see that. Okay, number two, you need insurance if you have children. So if you are running a business, and your maybe your husband's running a business, but you don't have a large net worth yet, that's liquid, you need to buy at least by a million to $2 million term insurance policy to protect your family for a period of time. Super cheap, go online, Google how to buy term insurance, but you need a protection plan for your family in case one of you passes away. That was the ugly stuff that's boring. Important, but boring. Third thing you need is you need to document a box, a file folder, something that has all this information in it. So like in the case of when I was in the hospital, my wife could actually go to a file folder that's sitting on my desk, it's the orange binder with everything. You need that. All right, now into the money stuff. Number four, you need to have a pay yourself first plan. So what that means is you need to be paying yourself first at least one hour day of your income. What you should be saving is 10 to 15% of your gross income off the top away in a retirement account outside the business. So if you're self employed at a minimum, you should be setting up a set by RA or a solo 401k plan, or if you're making a lot of money and you don't have employees, a defined benefit plan. I cover all of those things in the automatic millionaire, but you can be saving 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, even upwards of $250,000 a year tax deductible. And so you should be doing that. That should pay yourself first plan. Now, after that, the next thing is you need to be paying yourself first automatically. And the money that goes in these retirement accounts should be invested in combination of stocks and bonds. So the money's got to grow. In order for it to grow, you can't be sitting in a money market account or CDs. So it should be 70%, 60 to 70%. I'm giving you really specific stuff here. 60 to 70% stocks, 30% bonds. It's a balanced portfolio, super boring. But that boring portfolio over the last 100 years is averaged over 8% annually. And even though you could be 100% stocks, I don't recommend being 100% stocks. You want to be completely diversified. And I recommend in the book index funds. So I walk through all the funds that you can buy that are low cost, so you can do it yourself, or you can hire an advisor, do it, but don't spend time, especially as an entrepreneur, trying to pick which cryptocurrency to buy, which meme coin to buy, which NFT to buy. Just focus on your business and have your money be boring. Because when your money's boring, good things happen to boring money. When your money's sexy, when something's like exciting to talk about financially, usually something's wrong with it. Just I'm just telling you, like when you're at the cocktail party and someone's telling you, I got this thing for you. Oh my God, I made all this money. And like, yeah, then tell me about it in five years and let me know how it turned out for you. Most entrepreneurs, because we're such optimists, we always want to invest in other people's startup businesses. If you are dependent on your own business, that's your startup business. Every time I get on stage with my entrepreneur friends and we have conversations about investing in other people's startups, I go, hi, work out for you. I've invested in so many companies, but most of my money's been invested in publicly traded companies. So I think keep the focus on your own business. Use your own capital to keep growing your own business. Well, everything that I tell you is debt. Pay the debt down, right? So on mortgages, if you have a mortgage, if you do is to buy weekly mortgage payment plan where you pay your mortgage half every two weeks, you'll pay that mortgage off an average of five years sooner. Just that alone will save you hundreds of thousands of dollars in interest payments. And I recommend going even faster than that because as soon as your debts pay down, you get to a point where if you don't want to have, if you don't want to work, you don't have to work. And then that leads me to emergency money. Most people today don't have enough money set aside in case of emergency. They don't have enough money set aside in a money market account or a cash account. Today, you should have six months to a year of expenses set aside. And if you're an entrepreneur, you want more, not less. We've had really since COVID, we've had an incredible run year. Like these last three years, the economy, for many, many people have just been amazing. The stock market's been amazing. Real estate prices have been amazing. But things don't go up forever. So with AI and things are changing, a lot of people's businesses will change a lot next year too. And even if it's really good right now, I would be stockpiling some cash for the rainy day. My grandmother used to say, always have an umbrella for that rainy day and that's cash. And cash is not a credit line, by the way. Credit lines are nice to have, but credit lines are not cash. When people have credit lines and they think that's their cash and then all of a sudden the bank pulls the credit line, that's not your cash. Cash is cash. So I would be taking money every month that's coming in and I'd be setting it aside in an account that you're like, we're not touching this. It's there for emergency purposes. If your partner's like, we need a new kitchen. You're like, yeah, and that's not right now. We can get a new kitchen, but it's not coming out of that account. And then I guess I'd give you two more here because I spit fired all this to you, but I would invest in you. So I think the best people go, what's the best investment I've ever made it to myself? Invest in you. Invest in your learning, invest in your growth. The only way you continue to get better is if you continue to get better. And the way you continue to get better is by putting yourself in rooms where you're around other people and you can grow and learn. And rooms can be this, right? Listen to a podcast as a form of a room, books are a form of a room, classes online are a form of a room, and rooms with people are a major form of a room. So putting yourself in environments where you're around people like you, they're also growing, it's worth this weight in gold, right? I think people always say your network is your net worth. So your net worth is based on your network. It's not the money that's so important, its relationships are so valuable. And so then that leaves me the last thing, which is own your own economy. Whether we're in a good economy or a bad economy, the only economy that matters is the one you're creating. It's the only economy you have control over. You don't have any control over where things are going to go. I don't have any control over, but we have control of our own businesses. We have control of our own effort, have control of our own money flow. So take personal responsibility for your own economy and then your family will be in fantastic shape. Oh, those are so good. What would you say for somebody who is just like, this is kind of a new conversation for them. And they're like, Oh my God, I need to get my finances in order. And maybe they don't have anything saved. Is there one of those that you would say to focus on? And we should probably just read your book. Yeah. I mean, the automatic millionaire is the beginning stage. You open up the automatic millionaire. It's a book you can read in literally two and a half to three hours. And it walks you by the hand step by step. And the steps are, first of all, pay yourself first, automatically one hour day of your income. Find your, I call it your latte factor, figure out where your money is going so that you can see the power of spending small amounts of money and redirecting the small amounts of money into investments. Know that you don't need to be rich to become an investor. The reason I think I became so popular as I started talking about this idea that like, look, if you can invest $5 a day, you can change your whole life. $10 a day is even better. And $10 a day, you start investing over decades. The next thing you know, you turn around, you have millions of dollars in savings. So the key is to just start. It doesn't need to be perfect. And it doesn't need to be complicated. I've got kids who are reading the automatic millionaire who are 12, 13, 14 and 15. We just got an email from a kid who's 15 years old that's read the book three years ago and share with us how much money he saved. And then we have emails from people. I know it's like amazing. He went to the library and got the book. I'm like, who is this kid? And we sent him a copy of the book. But you know, the thing I will tell you is that decades go by in many ways and days. Like you blink your eyes and 20 years will go by. And so you're going to blink your eyes and be 20 years older. And being 20 years older with some savings set aside where you're safe financially is a much better place to be than being 20 years older wishing you had done something 20 years ago. Going, oh, I was on the, I listened to that podcast that Laurie did and that guy said I should pay myself first. And I really wish I had done that and that I didn't. And when I was just at Joe Polish's event, I don't know if you know Joe Polish, he's got a great program called the Genius Network. I was in Arizona and I did Joe's event. And that's a hugely successful entrepreneur group. And I asked that room of people, how many of you wish you had started saving earlier than you did? Every single hand in the room went up. And there's, we had a room of young people in another room watching us virtually. And I'm like, kids, you know, you 18, 19, 20 year olds, look at all the, look at all the adults in this room. They're all raising their hand. Nobody says, oh, you know what, I'm really glad I didn't start saving and investing when I was younger. But if you didn't start investing the same when you're younger, the best time to start is today. Today's the best time to start wherever you are right now, wherever your feet are planted. Now's the time for you to plant your feet and then start walking towards the direction you really want to go. So is this what you would tell parents who have kids or what else would you tell them? Well, with parents, with parents, I tell you that you can teach your kids about money really easily. So automatic millers a book I would give to them. But in the book, I have all these compound interest charts. And I would start your kids with Roth IRAs. So, you know, we're better for worse, my kids got copies of this book. And they're like, yeah, I'd seriously, and then they open the book up in the book, I have a little note saying, okay, I'm giving you money for your Roth IRA. And, you know, my 15 year old started to, his name's James, we started his Roth IRA at 12. So he's got $24,000, L'Ori already in a Roth IRA. And I showed him the calculations and go to this website, investor.gov. And I go, James, if you save $20 a day, which I'm going to help you in the beginning do, by the time you reach your dad's age, you're going to have about $11 million in this Roth IRA. That's all tax free money. And he's like, wow, seriously. So I would, I would start your kids young, I would teach them young. My grandmother helped me buy my first stock in McDonald's at age seven. She taught me how to think like an investor. She took me to a restaurant and she's like, just three types of people. Those like you who come and eat here, you're a consumer. Those who work here for minimum wage, tough way to make a living. And those who own this place. And you can buy the stock in McDonald's today and you can own McDonald's. And every time your friends come here, you'll make money from them. And she taught me how to buy my first stock at age seven. And my kids today, I didn't say a lesson for them, but they wanted to go to Shake Shack. So they own Shake Shack. So to teach your kids that you're a part of the American economy every single day, everything you do, you're spending money somewhere. And for the most part, everywhere you spend money every single day, it's a publicly traded company. You have an Apple phone you're watching us on and listening to, it's publicly traded. You're on Spotify listening to this podcast, it's publicly traded. You know, I can just go on and on and on. Everything that you're going to do, you're going to shop on Amazon publicly traded. Now you don't have to own those individual stocks. You can buy an index fund and own them all. And I give examples of mutual funds in the book that you can buy like VTI Vanguard's Total Stock Market Fund. You can own 3,600 stocks with one fund. Start your kids with that. Great place to start. Well, this podcast is a great place to start because this was a master class. I'm so grateful for all of the wisdom that you've poured into all of your books, but especially you guys go and get the automatic millionaire. Where can we get it? It's everywhere, all stores, Amazon, Barnes and Noble, Conom. You can also come over to my website, DavidBach.com. And one of the things we did is we put the first three chapters of the book on a podcast, DavidBach, the DavidBach show, the podcast on our website. I can give you the link and so you can listen to those first couple of chapters for free. It's so good and it's such an easy read. Like you made it so understandable for everyone, which is incredible. So I'm so grateful for you. Thank you. Yeah, it's really wonderful. Any last words that you want to leave with people? I know that this is which, this is also, you keep saying this is like your farewell tour. So how was that feeling? Surreal. Yeah, it really is. It's kind of feeling surreal because I've done a lot of, the podcasts I've done primarily have been with friends who I've known for 10, 15, 20 years. I don't know if you know Marie Forleo, but I just did a podcast with her. She's wonderful. We were like in New York together and kind of crying over it. You know, it's been, my career doing this work has been a total blessing. I have loved every minute of it. I've done this for 33 years. I actually don't know what the next thing is for me. People are like, what's the next thing? I'm like, well, I'm going to go skiing. But I'm excited for the next part of my journey. I too want to grow again. And so my goal for myself, and I think it's a conversation to end with, which is who do you want to meet? If you're getting to meet you 10 years from now, who do you want to meet? Who does Laurie want to meet? Who's Laurie in 10 years? And what do you want to be looking back on over the next 10 years from now? Anyone look back on be proud of? And that's a big thing for me. I want to meet me at 70, proud of myself for the new things that I did in the next 10 years. Because it's like, you're seriously not going to write more financial books? I'm not going to write more financial books. I've done 20 books. This is my 20th go around with book launches. I might write other books, but they won't be financial books. I want to meet me as a new version. So I think, ask yourself, give yourself some quiet time here in the new year. Get quiet. I've been talking on something, get quiet. Go somewhere and get quiet for an hour or two. And then ask yourself, 10 years from now, who do you want to meet? What does she look like? What does she look like? Because I know most of you listeners are women. What does she look like? What is she doing? Where is she living? Who is she friends with? Because if you don't think about what it is you want to look like 10 years from now, then it's just random chance what it looks like. And I'm just a huge believer in designing your life. Because even if it doesn't turn out the way you hope it will, the adventure that you get to have, trying to have it go that direction, that's where all the juice of life is. So good. Well, that is, I mean, now we have what we're going to do after this. That is like literally so much to think about. But it is, I think that's a question most people don't ask. And you are so right that I started doing that very regularly. And if I don't, you just like life will decide for you what your life is. So I'm so grateful for you for giving us the tools. And also for coming on this podcast, I feel like I get to have this last little portion of you coming in talking about this, which is very exciting. I'm so grateful that I got that. So thank you again for coming on. Well, Laura, thank you for having me on. I'm really glad we got to do this too. Please give Chris my best. And I hope if you come back to Italy that you'll let me know because I'd love to see you. And if I get out here, you California or Arizona, where are you looking? Yeah, Newport Beach. Yep. You're Newport. So one of my best friends from Newport's coming over to meet me in Switzerland to go skiing in two weeks. Oh my gosh, so fun. Yeah. So next time on Newport, I'll let you know. Okay, wonderful. And I will do the same. All right. Thank you. Take care. Have a great day.

=== FILE: The Content Strategy That Will Dominate 2026 with Becca Luna [gWXc5R6nWtI].txt ===

 people want depth. They want depth. That's really why a lot of people just are drawn to people right now. I think this next year is going to be even bigger for that. They want to buy your permission, your energy, and your confidence. Yeah. Like anything muted is going to be tough because we've had plenty of that. Especially on social media. I think we were OK for a while having social media be surface-level because it was just easy to scroll and just be like, oh, this is so nice. I want this life. And now people are like, no, I don't want just the highlight reel. I want the debt. Bec, welcome to the podcast. Thank you for having me. I'm so excited to have you on and we also have, we have another little co-host with us. Oh, I thought she was the main star. I thought I was her co-host today. Exactly. This is actually, okay, so Goldie's with us. It's a mini Golden Doodle. Toy Poodle. Toy Poodle. Toy Poodle. She's full grown. Full diva. Yeah, full diva. 100%. She runs my life. But she got a bad poodle cut in the internet. She did. It literally got 20 million views. It was just a video because my husband took her to get it cut, which he since has been revoked. Oh yeah. All rights, right? I learned hard. They don't know how to give the right directions. No. And he asked, like explicitly asked actually for what happened. I learned. And then in your life, did you come up with this in your brain? You're like, tied around the feet, tied around the nose, poodle cut. I'm like, what? So it was so bad, I got 20 million views. And they named her Barb. And the internet labeled her Barb. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, but she's now fully back to Goldie. She's the puppy that we love. Does she have a voice? Does she have like a- She does. But no one else can hear it but me. Okay, got it. You know, it's one of those things where we like chat. Yeah, I wasn't sure if it was like, hey mom. Lovely, higher. Hey mom. Higher pitch. I don't know. If you don't have a dog right now, you hate me. If you do have a dog, you know your dog has a voice. Of course. Of course. Yeah, and it'll change too. All right. Well, now that we have good dog energy in the room as well, this podcast is going to go great. I'm really excited to chat with you because you are obsessed with a freedom life, like having a life of freedom. And I also love learning about your background. My husband and I and your husband and you all got to go out to dinner and we've known you for a little bit also. And it's so fun learning about the way that you grow up and how that's impacted your life. And I feel like some of the most interesting people who do the most incredible things come from a background that is very unique or very challenged or a lot of challenges that, you know, it's forced you to become the person that you are. So we're going to dig into that. But I want to know what is it about a freedom lifestyle that has always been like very important to you and why? Hmm. Well, I think the baseline of it is the freedom to live and to experience. Oh, Goldie is to experience life the way that you want. And we all desire life to be different. Like what freedom looks like to me will look different to you versus Chris versus my husband right. And I think it's about especially as you become an entrepreneur and you build a business, it's like truly creating your life to be what you want. And when you wake up, what makes you feel free? What makes you feel like you are prioritizing yourself and is going to actually give you that true meaning of like, I did this for me. I built this life. I designed this life for me. And that was something that was always so important to me and truly like I every day have to kind of check back in and I'm like, okay, what is this actually look like? What is this life of freedom actually look like? Because it's also easy to kind of, you know, go off track and be like, oh, this person's doing this. Oh, I should do this. And then you come back and you're like, wait, that's actually that's like sacrificing myself and what I want out of life. So that's always been like my number one priority. Tell me a little bit about the check ins for people who are like, God, I don't even I haven't even let myself think of freedom necessarily. What would that look like for them? How could they go through a little bit of an exercise or do you have one that you do for yourself? Hmm. Well, I always ask myself, how do I want to feel when I wake up? So I always struggled in school genuinely because I had to wake up to an alarm clock. I feel like I am genuinely allergic to an alarm clock. It's bizarre. Like if I have an alarm clock set, even if I set it to an 11 o'clock in the morning, it's like I just can't sleep all night. I'm tossing and turning. Right. Like even this morning, I set it to eight in the morning. I always wake up at eight, but I knew that I had to wake up at eight. So I set the alarm two in the morning. I'm tossing and turning. So I rolled over, turned off my alarm and I went to sleep and then I woke up at eight. Right. And it's like, I know that my body for some reason, it's like the expectation, the pressure that I know I have an alarm clock. I know I have the deadline. It just never works. So I ended up dropping out of school because I literally couldn't manage going to school because I was having so much anxiety. So I learned that about myself and it was like, okay, how do I actually want to feel when I wake up? I want to feel like I don't have pressure on me. I want to feel that. Like we know what it feels like to have pressure versus not. Right. It's like the difference of a Sunday morning versus you have an early flight in the morning. It's like that, you know what that feels like in your body. So I think it's creating the consistency of like, how do you want to feel every morning? Right. That's like the first start. It's so crazy about like even just listening to, you know, I get to chat with so many people and it's like, some people might be like, whoa, that is a crazy thing to have like an actual, that's like an actual allergy to an alarm. Like, whoa, that is like really intense. But now knowing you, it's literally forced you into creating everything that you do. So like our, if you listen, your body and your life will speak to you on what you should be doing and what you should be creating. And now we all get to benefit from that because we get to learn how to create freedom in our life due to what you're doing. So I want you to take me back to your childhood. What about the way that you grew up? Think like most influence how you live and work now besides the alarm clock? Well, if you think the alarm clock allergy is weird, I was born on a hippie commune. So that is definitely the most unusual thing about me. I was born on a hippie commune and I actually think that that truly dictated like the rest of my life, like how I perceive normal life because that was so untraditional and not normal. But honestly, in the best way, because what happened was a bunch of 18 year old kids on you know, Grateful Dead tour ended up landing themselves on a hippie commune in Northern California basically just to say like, fuck society rules, fuck the government. I can curse, right? Yes. Okay. So it's like they truly said, okay, whatever you guys are telling, you know, these people that they have to live like this, they have to get a normal job, they have to get a nine to five, they have to have all these rules, right? To life and you have to buy the house. And it's just like, so what we're all ingrained with my parents literally said, no, we're not doing that. And they basically raised me on a hippie commune and everything was against the grain. So it makes sense that I am completely like, how can I do this differently? If you tell me, oh, it's like this, I'm going to say, no, I don't think so. We're going to do it this way. If you say no, I say yes. If you say yes, I say no. And that's truly because of this just concept that you can create your life and you don't have to do it how society tells you to. I think when we were chatting, that was one thing that obviously when you come from different childhoods than what is the societal norm, like I feel like there's a bonding there. I was just like, oh my God, I so get that how that can impact your life, your relationships, how you look at work, all of the things because the way that you think is not like how other people are thinking. And it does change how you view everything, relationships, friendships, perspective on everything. How is that impacted before we move forward? Like, how has that impacted like your actual relationships? Hmm. Like even friendships, because like that's a different way to grow up. It is. I would say it oddly. Well, my husband oddly had a very similar upbringing, which is, I think our biggest thing that we found each other, honestly, because now I have so many friends that are married and I hear about how different their upbringings were. And I'm like, I can't relate. It says that my husband and I were growing up the same, but parallel. Like it just is bizarre. Like a communico. That's the way. Exactly. So we relate to each other so extremely. I would say it makes me have a hard time and challenging time connecting with people who don't have backgrounds that really shift their views. Like anyone who maybe has grown up just like very like normal. You know what I mean. Like, you know what you just look like very like maybe you grew up in an environment where you were sheltered and it's just like very traditional. I have a hard time relating to that. So I definitely, you know, attract people that are kind of against the grain. And then I also think that relationships like when you show up as your most authentic self, you inspire people and you expand people. And that's definitely how I have seen my path is like I could have dimmed it down and been like, no, this is weird. I want to sit in, but that wouldn't have been my authentic self. And now I truly get to just show people like, no, who are you? What's your mess? What's your weird? Showcase it. And now that's my whole life. Like literally social media is like the biggest expander for that. You know, I think such a like a gift of the way that you grew up, like when we were chatting, I think like, can we can we dig in your story? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Cool. You know, being around like having parents who did drugs or having that a normal thing, like a normal occurrence. Yeah, it's bizarre. It's bizarre. At the same time, it's like, it's normalized things for you that maybe to some people are like, oh, that's taboo. Yeah. Where if you take that lesson, like I see different things that you're doing just in life and in business and you're like, no, there's no taboo in my life. So you've actually taken some things, you know, you're able to take like these things in the world that maybe people aren't saying, talking about maybe they don't have the confidence to be online or be bold or do the things and you're kind of, you're like, this was normal to me. So like all of these other things don't feel as big or as challenging or as like, oh, that's crazy or oh, you shouldn't do that. Or there's so many of these rules that actually restrict us from being authentic. And I think I think a lot of the reason why your business has been so successful just from outside perspective is because you've been able to roll out into the world pretty damn authentic from the start because you're like, yo, this is what I came from. And it's a really great like testament to some people who have this story. It could be like ashamed of it or oh, I'm a weirdo or who knows, who knows? I come from a very religious background. It's like the more I embraced it, the more I watched people come like really come to me. What's been a gift for you of sharing that? Like what's been something that has become a strength because of it? Oh my gosh. I mean, literally everything not only has it been incredibly healing even like for myself and my relationships and even my relationships with my parents. Like I'll share everything and I'll talk about it. I'm an open book, but I think like you said, I'll share the most extreme as if it's literally nothing to then normalize maybe what other people are feeling. And like it's like, oh, this is like eating you as inside. I'm like, no, like let's just like it's so easy for us to make these things so massive. Yeah. And be like, oh, it's this big. I can't share this side of me. And it's like, no, like odds are other people are experiencing this. Totally. Like a lot of people, right? And I think honestly, the feeling of shame is the killer of all dreams. I couldn't agree more. And I have always seen that firsthand and just people that are close to me. I'm like, I recognize what is holding them back and it's shame. And I was never going to let that hold me back, let alone my own story. And I'll have people online police me for my story. I'll have family police me for my story. Be like, that's not how it went. That's not what I remember. You know, and I'm like, well, this is my story. This is my truth. And it's helping me. It's helping my business. It's helping my family and it's going to help, you know, people that are inspired by it. I actually think that's really huge. That's that's a topic I would love to even just, oh my God, go into more even on my podcast, because you're absolutely right where it's like a lot of people aren't sharing their story for fear of like, oh, but my sister said that's not what she remembers. And you're like, no, but that's what I remember. Yeah. That's how it impacted me. Exactly. You know, that's what like this is like the biggest storyline of my life. And if I don't share it, I can't actually tell you where I'm even coming from or why I feel this way. Exactly. Well, and people don't know how something impacts you, especially because it's really easy to mask. Like I am an excellent masker. I could be going through the craziest shit and you will never know. Yeah. And so then if in 10 years, I maybe, you know, live out that experience, I'm like, okay, I'm ready to talk about it. No one else can say, Oh, it wasn't that big of a deal. It didn't go like down like that. I'm like, because you didn't know actually what was going down. Right. And we constantly are doing that where it's like, your truth, your story is only yours to tell. And if someone has anything to say about it, like it's, I mean, they can hit the unfollow, they can scroll and I'll literally tell people that. I'm like, you are free to scroll. Yeah, absolutely. And I think when you root into that, because I really struggled with this actually, because it involved people. It involved people who were still in that religion and still swear by that religion and still think it's the greatest thing that's ever happened. And I'm like, that was the most traumatic thing that's ever happened to me. And so it was this dance of like, how do I roll out with these people who are still in my life where I had massive traumatizing experiences, tell the story while it's hard to tell a story while trying to protect people. Now I've learned and I can imagine even with your family, your parents, like, you don't want people to be like, Oh, your parents were bad or they did all these drugs or were you neglected? It's like, no, you learn, you have to kind of learn how to tell the story in a way that works with all parties. And I'll just tell you right now, it's not going to work for everyone. I had some people that did not work well with and I had to just be like, do you want to do the rest of your life? Like very unauthentically and be like, yeah, you know, let me tell you why friendships are important to me, but I'm not going to tell you the real reason why or why I know that pivoting and leaving something that your family is doing is super hard, but I'm not going to tell you the real reason why. Nobody listens to you unless you can be in their shoes. So I love that you are permission. And I also love like your confidence and your courage around that. And I think that's really why a lot of people just are drawn to people right now. I think this next year is going to be even bigger for that. I agree. Like for permission, they want to buy your permission, your energy and your confidence. Yeah. Anything muted is going to be tough because we've had plenty of that. You know, 100% and people want depth. They want depth. It's like we all have met friends in our adulthood where you go and, you know, you'll have, you could have two different dinners where one, it's incredibly surface level and you're like, okay, cool. Yeah, that was fun. Maybe see you another time, right? And then another dinner where you sit down. You're like, okay, actually, like, no, sorry, I'm busy. And then you have another dinner where you just talk about everything. You open up, you talk about your childhood, your traumas. Your experience. And it's just like you completely open yourself up. And that is the depth of like the human connection that I think everyone is craving. And especially on social media, I think we were okay for a while having social media be surface level because it was just easy to scroll and just be like, oh, this is so nice. I want this life. And now people are like, no, I don't want just the highlight reel. I want the depth. I want that human connection because most people's connections now are on social media, yeah, unfortunately, you know, but it is. So true. We're spending more time there. So now we are craving more depth and human connection and it requires leaders to show the entirety of them. And of course, you can have some things that are just, you know, for you. Yeah. But of course, you know, it takes discernment, but the most you can just open up and be vulnerable with your audience. Yeah. It truly is like life changing on so many levels. Yeah. Let's let's talk about that discernment really quick. I definitely keep some stuff to myself that I'm like, no, I don't need that stress in my life. If I want to open that up. So for me, I think I look at it like, OK, I can't tell my story or shift. People are transformed for them if I don't share this. Like that's kind of how I decide on what the lens is. And I'm like, can I still do the thing out in the world? Can I still track the right people? Can I still create the transformation that I want? Can I still feel fully authentically me? And then if if I can't do those things, then I'm like, OK, I think I have to tell this story like I do. And if I don't have to, then I'm like, no, that's just for me. That doesn't matter. They don't need to know about that. Maybe that's something for later. Maybe it's something for never. How do you kind of discern where in the story? Because I know a lot of people ask that all the time. Like, when do I tell it? Do I tell it when I'm in it? Do I have to share everything? Hmm. I mean, I think that I've had the worst on social media. I mean, I've literally had death threats. Yeah, you've gone through a lot. I have a nervous system check of what is the worst that could happen with this? Like, does this story involve other people? So if they find out what's the worst, could that ruin a relationship? Could it ruin? Could it just have comments? Could it have mean comments about X, Y and Z? I try and play out, actually. Yeah, so that I can physically start to feel what it what would it be like if like the worst happened? Yeah. And if it truly is like, oh, I like start to panic and I'm like, well, OK, I'm not ready to share the story. Then I won't. Yeah, but because it has to feel safe. It has like, because the last thing that you want is for you to share something that is vulnerable. You then go into this full like overdrive just bodies panic mode because then you're going to tell yourself in the future that you're never safe to tell your story. Yeah. So I think that's the discernment of like play out the worst case scenario. And a lot of the time when you play it out, you start to realize actually, oh, it's actually not that bad. Yeah. Right. Like, oh, that's actually probably not likely that that will happen. So I am safe to tell this story. Yeah. You you're also I feel like you're good with taking some negative comments, though. So what about the people who are like just going to start getting out there and anything negative feels bad? Get comfortable. Buck up. Yeah, like like just some. Buck up, Sally. A little bit. Yeah. I think if being completely honest, you will hold yourself back from growth and connection if you are afraid of what everyone thinks. Yeah. And always just tiptoeing around any possibility of negative comments, because we all have controversial beliefs. We all have like, what do you feel like is like the enemy in life? Right? Like, what are you fighting up against? And that is what you should be sharing. And because of that, people will agree and people won't agree. And the more you repel people, the more you attract your people. So I actually think that it's just like really beautiful synergy where it's like there are times where I'll protect myself and I'm like, wow, I haven't had any hate. And I'm like, I'm not sharing my voice. Oh, God, yeah. I'm like, I feel that. Actually sharing and standing up for what I believe in and what I what people want to hear. And then I'm like, OK, you know what? I need some courage and it is it takes courage. It really does. But it's like you it's a ladder, right? You take one step, post one video and then you're like, OK, that wasn't that bad. Right? Yeah. Because it's not like you're going to just every single day just start posting all things and all going to just be hate. It's like just it's a ladder and then you'll get there. And the more and more you realize that, yes, maybe sometimes there's negative. There's also a lot of positive. Totally. That's I mean, cancel culture even. Yeah. And it's whole like how many people get canceled and then they, you know, rise up with like their audience, whether you agree with the cancellation or not. It's like they always end up aligning with their people. Yeah. And that is just the biggest testament of that like your people are out there, whether, you know, yeah, think it or not. I've watched people get canceled and it's been the best thing that's ever happened because it's gotten them so clear and just even more in their stance. And it's like I really do believe just to like make anyone listening this feel better, who's afraid of that. Yeah, I don't believe you can get canceled unless you agree to it. Meaning like, unless you're like, OK, yeah, yeah, I'm not sure. Or yeah, I apologize for that. Even if you don't apologize for it, like, and if you agree to being like, yes, I was wrong and you don't believe you're wrong. That's where people get canceled because now you're not in your truth. And it's just like totally mixed. You don't know what to do. So you disappear. Yeah. And it's like, I just feel like, oh, God, if you're going to say it, you got to like say it with your guy. You got to know it's a hill you want to die on and just be willing to die on the hill. And honestly, there will be it's probably half the population who feels the same. Yeah. Because that's pretty much how it is. It's totally like 50 50. You're going to get 50 percent hate, 50 percent absolute love, but you're just going to rise up in the group that that loves you. And yeah, you know, to anyone listening who's like freaked out by this, you don't have to be this extreme, but I do think you're going to have to have an opinion on things in order in order to to be seen. And to get your message out there. So for you, there was like a long stretch where you didn't have clarity on on what you wanted to do. It sounds like on what you wanted to be, but you kept moving instead of settling. What did that look like? Yeah, I mean, it's like messy action over no action always. I was willing to try anything. And so even to give some context. So I was a waitress. And 2018. OK. 2018, I was still Miss Party Girl staying up until eight in the morning, doing things that, you know, I don't do anymore. No shame for anyone, you know, but not for me. I was right there with you. But yeah, like quite quite a few years earlier. I mean, it was a fun ride and also incredibly lost. I remember the feeling of waking up every day, not feeling like I have freedom or fulfillment and being like, fuck, I'm so hungover. I'm so broke. I'm so lost. I have no direction. And now I have to get up and put my stinky, fricking clothes on because I'm selling fricking tacos and I'm like relying on tips. What is this? Like, is this really life? And so my boss ended up spitting in my face in 2018. Nice. OK. Yep. And I left drostanolone that day saying I will never have a boss again. I will never have a boss again, and I will never feel degraded like this and feel like then I have to go back and just put a smile on my face. And I'm like, no, I'm not doing this. So I quit and there was a period where I was like, OK, I need to figure out something. And I have always wanted to travel. I've always wanted to have the freedom and flexibility. So I was like, what better time is now? I'm already broke. I already have credit card debt. What like what's going to be the worst case scenario? I don't really have a lot to lose. Yeah. Let me just try. So I tried everything. I tried virtual assisting. I tried photography about a camera on Amazon. I was like, I'm going to be a photographer. And then I ended up I had that crack. I couldn't figure out how to work the camera. I'm like, fuck, OK, no. And also then playing out the scenarios of what are all these things actually going to do for my life being a photographer? You're on your feet. What are you working towards working at eight hour weddings? You know, that's draining. You're going to be on your feet literally all day and then you go back and edit and you have to demand a plan. I'm like, no, I don't want that. So I tried all these things and I had lack of clarity of what I was going to do, but I had full clarity of what I wanted and who I wanted to be. That was my North Star. That was my driving force. And it then made web design fall in my lap. So it truly was like I was open to any opportunity. I was like, just give it to me. I'll say yes, right? And web design fell in my lap and it was within six months. And I truly felt I was like this. Just like checks all my boxes, everything that I desire and what I want in life and being just having the true freedom and fulfillment. That was another thing that I was chasing. And I'm I feel like entrepreneurship is interesting because a lot of people end up wanting to be an entrepreneur because they want to feel valued and fulfilled and what they're doing and creative. But then I see sometimes people go on paths that like actually don't allow them to. Oh, God, all the time. Right. It's like so many. No, it's like it's so bad. Had it. Yeah. How did you get yourself out of a situation like that? Such a good question. I talk about the importance of sleep and reaching your goals all the time on this podcast. But I also know that you're probably wound pretty tight like I am and you might have trouble transitioning from your daytime to your nighttime. So I added something that I absolutely love because you know, skincare is a big thing for me in 2026. And I love Osea's Dream Collection. It's really helped change that for me. Osea's Dream Night Serum and Dream Night Cream are clinically tested formulas powered by Bio Retinol and designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep. You guys know that I am all about making the things you're already doing work for you. So why not make this work for you in your sleep? So I love this because it really helps me wind down not only because of this beautiful scent and how it feels on my skin. But I'm really loving that it's something that supports my nighttime ritual while I sleep. And it helps me settle in for the night because my skin feels so good. And again, it's got that nice lavender scent that I always associate to nighttime sleep because skincare truly is self-care, you guys. So Osea's newest product in the Dream Collection is the Dream Bio Retinol Body Serum. And let me tell you skincare for me this year is not just about my face, it's about my whole body. So you should make this a key part of your personal body care routine just like I am. And I think you're going to fall in love with it. So it's a full body restorative treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a holistic blend of Bio Retinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender. I think the second that you put it on, you're gonna feel the difference just like I did and you're gonna see the difference. I mean, talk about looking like glass skin. I literally put it on and actually feel like I wanna go somewhere because my skin looks so plump and hydrated and useful. So you guys give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skincare from Osea. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site wide with code EARN at OseaMalibu.com. And trust me, you're gonna love this so much, you're gonna wanna buy one for your friends. When you're growing a company, you know that you need good people around you in order to get to the next level. And right now there's a talented person out there who could take your company to the place that you want. But the question is, do you wanna just hope that they see your job posts before your competitors or do you wanna match with them using Indeed Sponsored Jobs? If I had to hire someone for the show tomorrow, I wouldn't mess around with candidates who look decent on paper, but don't even get what I do. I'd want somebody who already has worked in podcasting and editing and software and understands workflow and can jump in and not only do the job well, but help take us to where we wanna go. That's why I use Indeed Sponsored Jobs. They help you find people who actually fit what you're looking for, stop struggling to get your job posts even seen on other sites. With Sponsored Jobs, your post is boosted to reach quality candidates, the kind of people who can help your business thrive and drive the results that you need. And the best part is you only pay for results. In fact, Sponsored Jobs posted directly on Indeed are 95% more likely to report a hire than non-sponsored jobs. So if you're hiring, Indeed is all you need and I like those stats. So spend less time searching and more time actually interviewing candidates who check all your boxes, less stress, less time, more results now with Indeed Sponsored Jobs. And listeners of this show will get a $75 Sponsored Job credit to help get your job the premium status it deserves at Indeed.com slash podcast. Just go to Indeed.com slash podcast right now and support our show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed.com slash podcast, terms and conditions apply, hiring, do it the right way with Indeed. For anyone that doesn't know me, I have started a lot of businesses and I will tell you that every single one came with so many worries and so many fears. It can be really terrifying because there are so many questions that you don't have the answer to. What if no one listens to my podcast? What if nobody buys my products? And I am so grateful that I have started all of them  especially Glossy, and that I believed in the launch of my products because despite all the fears and hesitations, it also helps when you have a partner like Shopify on your side, and Shopify is what I use for Glossy. So you can get started with your own design studio with hundreds of ready-to-use templates. Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store that matches your brand's style. Accelerate your efficiency, whether you're uploading new products or trying to improve existing ones. Shopify is packed with helpful AI tools that write product descriptions, page headlines, and even enhance your product photography. And what if I get stuck? Shopify is always around to share advice with their award-winning 24-7 customer service. It's time to turn those what-ifs into with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1 per month trial today at Shopify.com slash happy, go to Shopify.com slash happy, go to Shopify.com slash happy. I've pivoted so many times into thinking that maybe this thing would be the next freedom thing. I think you have to think differently because entrepreneurship, you're doing a lot yourself or that's how I used to be. And now I'm looking at it as like, who's got the skill set to do that so that I can get back in my zone of genius? So whether it's been a thing where maybe I feel like I can't get out, like honestly, with my product company, I feel like, oh wow, did I create a life of non-freedom right now? But the same mindset that has gotten me out of other challenging spaces is getting me out of this, not meaning the company, but out of the challenge that I'm in, meaning, I'm doing a lot of the things right now and what we're working on is, okay, well, how do we either create more money, fundraise, get better talent, who has a skill set that this would work so much better on? Is there something that we could trade? Is there something, so it's kind of been the same in all the businesses. You just, you have to think differently. You have to think with freedom, but what freedom means to you, and freedom doesn't mean to not work for me or like for you, like I don't mind an alarm clock, but what it does mean is I want the freedom to be in my skill set every day, like in the creative part. I would love to have creative things on my plate every single day. I love that because it feels good. It feels so good. And it's exciting. It feels like you're in your zone. Yeah, that's exactly how I felt when I found web design. I remember sitting there and I always felt like any job I did, I was always, I had a really strong work ethic. Well, yes, I don't want to wake up to an alarm clock. That's also incredibly privileged. And I know that, right? Like I get to say that now. We want that as your guess. Like that's where I am now, but I lived a life where I did have an alarm clock and I had to do that. And I worked a lot of different things that I was in survival mode to make money always because I grew up with such lack, such lack, like incredible, full, just full scarcity. That goes deep. All the time. Yes. Sometimes not knowing where food is going. Just like constant feeling of, are we gonna survive? Like nothing is safe. Nothing is safe. Yeah. Nothing is safe. And the projection also onto a small child, you know, from like adults, it's just, it really is a lot. And I've had to do a lot of work to just redefine what money is and what it means to me from the way that I grew up. And so I worked for money and I first started my business because I needed money. And I think that's very relatable. And some people like, will kind of tiptoe around that, being like, no, I'm becoming an entrepreneur. I'm starting a business because I need money because it's like shameful or we don't wanna accept or admit that we just started doing something out of money. But when you come from a place of just such lack of and scarcity, there's no shame in it. Like you gotta eat. You gotta eat. You gotta get your bread, right? But then what happens is like, once you get to a security blanket, which there's many different levels. For me, it was literally 5K. When I got to 5K a month in my website business, I was like, damn, this is like the safest I've ever felt with money. What do I really want in life now? What do I actually really want? And then I was able to really go, okay, what does this actually look like? What is the impact of this look like? What is the fulfillment of this look like? I wanna be creative, like all those things. And when I tapped into that, then literally my income just skyrocketed. Because of alignment of what each of you want. Oh my gosh. I mean, there's, you know about Maslow's hierarchy of needs. Have you heard of that? Okay, so it is like this was totally me. I resonate with you so much. It's crazy because my parents went bankrupt. We were always bar, like they were borrowing money from me as a teenager. I worked at a coffee shop. And then when I was 18, I moved out. We'd trade the same $100 fucking bill back and forth. I swear to God. It was just like, we need it this month. We need it this month. And it was like constantly never had money. And it was like, who's getting kicked out? Are you gonna be able to stay in your, like it was. That's so intense. It was insane. So I couldn't even think about like what, if someone asked me what my dream was, I'm like, what are you even talking about? Like that is like not even on the radar. So Maslow's hierarchy of needs starts at the bottom. You have to have like your needs, like your initial safety needs met. Food, shelter. Like you have to have a sense of security. Your brain won't even like flip on to the other things until that has a good baseline. So if anybody listening is like, whoa, I don't even know what that is yet. It is more than okay to be like, you know what? I just wanna like be able to afford like some cottage cheese. Like that was, I remember standing in line cause I had started in fitness because that was gonna be the dream that was gonna get me out. And I was like, can we afford the good cottage cheese? Like I need to buy this. I don't want this to get. And all I could think about is like all these people were like, what's your why? Tell me like what's the big vision? I was like the fucking big vision is to not feel like I, you know, to be able to spend money and pay for things and have my needs met. So it's so interesting that. And mine was like that $5,000.2 where I was like, oh, now what do I want? Like the world opened up to me. So it's literally, it's like, it's like a ladder. It's a ladder. I actually think on complete different side note, but I was seeing even in marketing, and I'm curious if you have seen this in content specifically cause there are, there's a wealth gap, obviously. And I think right now there is such a mass volume of people who are getting laid off and don't even have their basic needs being met. Food, shelter, they're just the biggest volume of just true insecurity of their needs being met. And I think I have played around with, cause obviously my life, and I dim it down even on social medias and sometimes because I'm like, I don't want to come across like this, but sometimes I'll share the house, the car, the lifestyle. And I have noticed more in the last year that it's being met because I do help people, you know, leave their nine to five or get out of that to then grow. It's like, that's my audience. And they don't want to see the flashy because they can't see it for themselves yet. Because they're like, I literally just want to buy groceries. I want to buy organic groceries. I just need to feel safe. So then it's like, I've noticed that the content that is more on the flashy side, which we always see on Instagram, you know, it does not work. And so it's also having discernment of who your audience is when you're talking to them. And if what you're sharing might actually be too much because if they're in that first little bracket and they're just trying to get there, they're gonna see it and they're like, I can't even relate. That's not relatable in any way. I think it's like an assessment of audience. I also think there could be some age demographic in there as well. I'm noticing it's funny. It's like, I feel like there is a bit of like the more that I actually speak to making money. I'm getting more, it's like I'm getting more of the people who really want to do that, but I am getting the other people falling off for sure. And that's exactly like you're gonna repel and you're gonna attract, which is great. Totally, which is- And that's your people, which I know because I've been in the room with your people. And they definitely are like, most of your people are like beyond that. They're like, okay, I wanna get what you have. Yeah, and I think that can scare some people though because I, much like you, when you come from somewhere like you came from, from a tiny town too, and like a very strict religion, I had like two friends. I wasn't allowed to hang out with anyone. You never lose that. But if you wanna continue on and keep growing, I can't talk to those people. I can't include them in everything. Because if we include everyone, you literally do speak to no one. So, something that you do really well is you speak to your transformation story all the time. I'm learning that from you, which is great. Like you really are great at showing a before and an after. That's a great way to kind of be inclusive without saying, hey, you down here, let's try to get you from zero to here fast, but your mindset's not even there and you're not gonna like what I have to say. So I think that that invites people. I think you're really good at inviting people. That's good. That's something that I've learned from you. So tell me at what point did sharing your life and ideas publicly stop feeling casual, but start feeling like very powerful in the thing? Like your voice became the business. When you see the impact and you feel the impact of what you just said, like the transformation, I have had an insane A to Z transformation. And I'm still, you know, I'm not done yet. I'm 28 years old. Like hopefully I got a lot to go. But with where I am right now, it's actually crazy to look back. And so I do share a lot of those videos where it's like, I'll show a photo of where I was born on a hippie commune or the house that I grew up in that had like black mold on the ceiling. And though, you know, the walls were caving in. It was like so different than my viral castle that I'm renovating. And it's like wild. But when I share that, it's like, I will share then everything in between. So I have the formula that I taught you where it's like you share where you started and where you are now. One photo to where you are now, one video to where you are now. And then you can fill in the context and you have so many different little mini stories within there. And you can then bring people along so that then you do hit everyone. Like when you said it's inclusive, it's like not everyone's gonna relate to how I grew up to where I am now, but then people will relate to when I was 16 in a high school dropout to where then when I made 10 Ks a web designer, people will relate to this. You can then find and play with like your little mini stories and bring people along. But what you see is that you will then just have so many people in your audience who are just inspired by your story. And when people are inspired by their story and they can relate to themselves, they can see themselves doing it. And so when I see someone from a video, take action and go, I'm doing this. Whatever it is that they're gonna do. And then in three months, they respond and they're like, hey, I found you on TikTok from this video. And I literally just quit my job. I just bought a house with my husband. I just made my blank first month. You know, and it's like that. I'm like, I'll literally do this every day until I die. Not even if there was no money attached to it for me because of how powerful it is to see other people change their life through you just sharing your life. So you're sort of top of funnel is you doing that? Like you're like, I'm gonna share these transformation stories. You're so good at them. By the way, every time I do one now, it does amazing every single time. So I'm so grateful that you showed that. Okay, so everyone listening go steal the formula. It really is so good. It's like, duh. When I'm like, what do I need to post? I'm like, okay, what's a starting point? What's an ending point? It can be 15 years. It could be five years. It could be a three year transformation. Like you have so many in there. You just go through your phone and you take a picture from this year to this year. And I'm like, tell the story of what was happening in that timeline. So like it sounds so simple, but it also was like, duh, this is amazing. And it works so, so well. It's so easy and it's so easy to repeat. I think that's a thing for me is I create two to three pieces of content every single day for eight years. So like that's a lot of content. So you have to figure out how can I streamline this? And how, what kind of process can I create? And you can first off reshare the same thing over and over and over and over and over again. And then you also can just play like with the variables the end transformation can stay the same. Just swap out the first photo. Then the first photo can all stay the same and then swap out the end photo because they don't need to know exactly what now they could know what was 2024. Like, cause it's probably still 10 steps ahead of them. Right? So it's like that formula literally makes it so that every single day you could put out a piece of content that shows your transformation. It's literally life changing ingenious. You guys can go back to my page and find every single one that you're like, oh, that's what she's doing here. And it always works because people can find themselves in the journey no matter where they're at. So, okay. So that's kind of top of funnel. The way that you share, the way that you attract people. You have a couple of different things going on which I love though. You're also redesigning a home. But I want to talk about like how you take that and pull people into web design. So I always try and find a common commonality between everything I'm doing. So, I mean, what my people want is freedom. That is like the number one thing. When I have a masterclass of 4,000 women, I mean, I have 11,000 students in 97 countries now. So they are literally all over and there's one word that repeats over and over and over and over again. Freedom. Freedom. Freedom looks different in different formats. Time freedom, financial freedom, freedom. The number one thing people want is freedom. So I always try and bring everything to it. Even if it is something like a house renovation video. I bring it back to that I am able to do this because I created a freedom-based business or there could be so many different things. It could be like the same clip of me in front of my house that I'm renovating. And it's like POV, I'm able to be at my house renovation on a Tuesday at 11 o'clock because I don't have a job. It's like, that's freedom. Or I'm able to do this because I built the financial ability to do this, that's freedom. So you can literally use also the same context and make it all these different little stories that still come back down to the number one thing that your ICP wants, which for mine, it's freedom. So no matter what I share, I go, how can I correlate this to freedom? And then subtly throw in, oh, you know, mine was web design, you know, you can do this with web design. So then it's always top of mind for people. So even when they're watching a house renovation video or a video of me and my husband or a video of Goldie, it's like, it doesn't matter, it'll always come back to freedom. How are you capturing them from? Is Instagram or TikTok or both your main forms? I always do both. I'm pretty evenly split. Well, so I have two accounts on TikTok. One is truly just the house account that was an accident that when I bought the house, I shared it on a random private account, not private, brand new account, and it got 100 million views before we even moved it. Okay. Yeah, so like, You're like, this has its own account. It has its own account. And I'm like, I don't know what to do with it. However, I have now started to share more of myself and my story to now try and convert these people to web design. But I have two main business accounts on TikTok and Instagram. And this year, 2026 is the year of YouTube. I don't like to fully recommend it until I like, no, but I truly believe like that's where the market's going is that short form is so flooded. And that if you look at even AI, how many, do you see the account that's like, this is like, Francesca, this is my AI built in 30 minutes and she pays my rent. I'm seeing it everywhere. So I think short form will get diluted because of AI and just how easy and how everyone is just creating content now. Long form, AI can't. No one's gonna sit there and listen to an hour long podcast or an hour long video. It doesn't like know how to do like story. No, it's not personable. It's like a long YouTube video or long podcast is like you're literally going to the movies. You're watching and like how many movies have you gone to where you're like, I'm 15 minutes into this fucking sucks. Because the actors aren't good, the storylines aren't good, the character building isn't good. AI, short form, it just doesn't have that. So I think long form YouTube is gonna be where the personal brand space goes. Okay, well, I'm gonna follow you right over, right behind you. Okay, is there a moment with a student where you realize that this was so much bigger than teaching a skill? Like tell me about that moment when you're like, whoa, what I'm doing is creating such massive impacts like in the world. Every day. Honestly, I have a shared Slack channel with my team, hashtag student wins. And every single morning my team, they go through our academy, our club, Instagram, DMs. And if they see a positive message from a student, they will screenshot and put it in. So then we all as a team feel the impact. So every single day, it's like that's my alarm clock. Is I like, ooh, let me check the student wins chat. And every single day, it's not like, oh my God, I found web design, I love this skill. Who the fuck cares? It's not that. That's not why we're doing this. It's like, wow, before I found you, eight months ago, I was on unemployment. And I literally had no idea how I was going. I thought I was gonna lose my house. And now I'm at $10,000 a month. Wow. Like this is truly life changing. That's crazy. Things like that. And I'm like, and we know what that does. We know what the $5,000, what that can do. Right, exactly. So it's like, it's the true impact of like what these people are experiencing in their life. And then having it be a ripple effect because my husband and I work together, we inspire a lot of couples to go into business. So I find that a lot of my students, their women, they'll come in, their husbands will be super skeptical. They're like, no, is this an MLM? That was Chris. Like what's web design, right? And then their wives end up making more money than their fucking job that they hate, right? And they're going to the construction yard and they like hate their life. And they're like, wait, my wife is literally watching girl housewives on the couch and dogs and making 10 K a month, what? So then they'll end up going into business together. So we've had a lot of husbands in the last two years quit their jobs and go full time in the wives web design businesses, which that is the coolest thing because them, think about the impact even on like the children in the house. They have parents now that are both entrepreneurs that have freedom, that are home and not financially stressed and are going to show them also how to be an entrepreneur, which I think is the most beautiful skill to teach your children. So it's just like the massive level of impact, honestly. Yeah, it's like being able to have that big of a life-changing thing for a family, like watching what it's done for having one parent home. Cause right now it's like, it's real out there. It's like a two parent at work thing. And we know that that's one of the most impactful things for a child is having a parent home. So being able to have one or two parents home is pretty crazy. It's crazy to be able to do that. So it's a luxury and it's a privilege. And I feel an incredible level of responsibility. I try and keep my life to being exactly what I want. I try and be as stress-free, obviously life fucking life. And I have stress from all angles, but I really, really try and just choose like what will bring me happiness. But the one constant pressure that I feel is this responsibility that I have to now help normal people. Because it's not like, you know, there's so many levels of impact. And I think it's incredible to like help people go from 10K to 100K or a million to 5 million, 10 million, whatever, like then yes, that's more and more massive impact. But like I love helping the everyday person who is struggling because I was then. And I relate so deeply. And I'm like, if I could help a single mom, I was raised by a single mom. Like I know the struggles. And if I could help a single mom create more financial security for them and their children, it's like I will never not feel that pressure to show up and do it. I'll never not feel that. And I feel like you've figured out with your team and your skill set too, like how to be able to help. It's funny like how people end up in what they're doing because you get mass amounts of people because it is like you can help more of the everyday person. But I feel like you've learned how to build structure, team, scalability to be able to do that. So that's also like a personality type to be able to like do that and get those people around you. So it's kind of like you really followed all of the things that you were good at. Yeah, yeah. And like what you were saying of saying in your zone of genius and hiring out, I mean, that's, one of the most challenging things is team and management. Oh my gosh. But also it is the number one thing that if you can do, you will scale and you will not only not scale, but you'll also then be dropped into the seat of the seat that you want to sit in. And that is what I constantly strive to do and I will not do anything for longer than 30 days in a seat that I do not want to do. Oh boy, I need to take that one. And it's like, that's like, it's like a KPI. My buddy, you're like, you know, or maybe you're pushing that out. I think it's important though, because then when you are good in your creative seat, like mine is content. I love content. It's that is like, if that's the seat I want to be in 90% of the time. So when I get pulled into this other seat, especially if this seat is not valued at the time that is valued for me to create content and grow the brand and get more people in 30 days. If sometimes you need to be in this seat to create a new SOP, you need to figure out the process. You're going to be able to go in and like create what you want. Sometimes it's good for you to do those jobs, but then as soon as it's set, bounce out. You have to hire someone for it. Yeah, that's so true. I'm literally going through. If you saw my eyes going down, I was going through my schedule, literally going through the meetings that I'm like, I think I need to let my team know I can't be on those meetings anymore. Okay, so that's my thing. Yeah. I, and this is crazy. And I am a wild card. Okay. And I get it. So maybe don't just like implement everything cause maybe it just works for me, right? And maybe if you do it, you're like, well, business will crash down, but I have zero reoccurring meetings with my team. Zero. I always lead with my intuition. And so that I can be creative. And what I hate is getting onto a meeting and then having my complete just, like it just puts a halt on what I want to do and what I want to create. And nine out of 10 times I get off the meeting and I'm like, fuck my team. Oh my God, I'm so annoyed. This isn't working. But it's not. And when I'm pulled out, I'm like, I love my team. They're truly the best. They keep the business going. I have so much more appreciation, but it's because I don't need to be into the, in the day to day or I then freak out. And so I have no reoccurring meetings. If something needs to come up, schedule me like literally text me on the day and be like, hey, can we meet today? And I'm like, yeah, sure. I have an hour at one. Let's do it. But I have no reoccurring meetings with my team. You are making me think right now just cause if you are top of funnel, meaning if you are the person getting the eyeballs, which I am, that's like, you should be getting better at what you're doing and being in that position. So yeah, that's crazy. And swapping out people who, cause if there's a feeling like I have to do this or it doesn't get done, or it doesn't get done effectively or correctly, whoever is in charge of that, if there is someone, they're not the right fit. Doesn't mean that they maybe don't have another good seat that they can go sit in. But I truly, like this year has been a year of that where I'm like, I'm not playing fucking games anymore. I'm not going and doing another year where I don't feel like I have the team and the seats or I feel like I have to pick up all the slack. I always, every day have to put out little fires, QC everything, I'm not doing that. And this year, I finally have people in the seats where I'm like it and it feels like such a release. So good. Yeah. Okay, last question. For anyone thinking this should feel better in my life, like this should feel better than it does. What would you tell them? Getting the clarity, cutting out the noise first, cause I don't think that you can get clarity if you have a lot of noise. You have a lot of like static in your head, a lot of voices. When something doesn't feel good, even like I'll go take a week by myself, even from my husband. And I'm like, I'll go get an Airbnb. I'll bring Goldie. Cause normally she's more quiet than of course this one hour podcast. I love it. She had stuff to say. She's like normally so calm. I'm like, she's chaotic right now. I don't, it's like the one hour she's like, I'm going to really just fucking do that. She has not been bad. She's not been bad. So my husband likes to, you know, he's like a bold person, personality. He likes to yop and have his opinions be met. So sometimes when I'm like, this doesn't feel good in my life. I need to change this. I need to change that. I need clarity. Sometimes I literally don't have like the room to find the clarity that I need. So I'll literally go cut out the noise. Social media, my family, my husband. I'm like one week, give me one week. And I'm renting a beach house by myself so that then I can get the clarity of what would feel good. And I sit and journal, do whatever you need to do. Go walk and talk, you know, whatever you need to do to find the clarity of what would feel good. And then it's a testing because you might think something is going to feel good. And then you do it and you don't, it's like a constant, you know, game that you have to play. But I think cutting out the noise and finding the clarity and then be willing to make a change even if it's uncomfortable or even if it's maybe sets you back a little bit because if you get set back, it's like a slingshot. Sometimes you have to come back a little bit to then get slingshot. It's so true, you really do. Yeah, in life. And you have to be okay with it and you have to know that's part of it, for sure. Exactly. And I think it's a control thing. We always want to like control the outcome and control the results. So it's really easy to be like, no, I'm not going to go back or no, I don't want to slow down. I'm not going to do that. But then 10 years we'll go by and you'll look back and you're like, I wasn't happy the whole entire time. Yeah, whole entire time. We do not want that. Exactly. No, we don't want that. No, we don't want that. Becca, where can we learn more about your website stuff? Which I'm also going to link that up, you guys. It's all going to be in show notes, but yep. I am Becca Luna across all platforms and beccaluna.com. Okay, thank you so much. This was so much fun. I know we've been trying to do this for a while, but now you're going to live here. So you can just be podcast buddies. We can just do it again. I know exactly, we'll just do it again. So, okay, thank you so much for coming on.

=== FILE: The Health Blueprint Every High Performer Needs with Dr. Gabrielle Lyon [2USjTfgcq8c].txt ===

 we're talking about muscle and we're talking about protein. But what I really want is I want to build stronger, more resilient humans. And there is no way to do it without taking care of our physicality. It's astounding how many people I've seen turn their lives around in six months to a year. And it's all gonna start here. It's not gonna start with what you're doing and what your work is. It's gonna start with how you're feeding yourself, treating yourself and how you're thinking. [♪ Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap So I'm gonna be like part friend, part like fan girl for this because I'm so excited to have you on the show, especially now with the release of your second book, Forever Strong Playbook. We both have such a fitness background and you are like the epitome of what I even aspire to be as a fitness person, your knowledge, your wisdom, who you are, how you are, and watching how much you have just literally grown way out of the atmosphere in the last couple years since I even initially met you is mind blowing, but not at all for me because getting to meet you and getting to see your genius and knowing what you know, it's such a clear and obvious reason you have to just let you have to let me do this. It's such a clear and obvious reason why what people see overnight, even though I know you work like an animal, but people have grasped on to what you are saying because it's true, it's real, and it works. I mean, I think all I have to do is go to your social page to see that, but also getting to be your friend and spend time with you. Like you guys, I don't know if you know this, but her and I have masterminded together. I think we've done three trips for like full weekends. Deep dive, maybe four? I don't know. Deep dive. I've gotten to see your work ethic, know your beautiful heart, your soul, the absolute passion that you have for this work because you love people and you know it works and you know that it is the future of health, longevity, happiness. Everything is tied to your work. So I'm so excited to have you here. It is really, you know, we're just chatting offline. For those of you who are entrepreneurs or aspiring authors, there is a level of intensity that continues to tick up as you get closer to launching the product, launching the go, launching the service, launching the website, whatever it is, and our nervous system gets amped up and I just jumped on here and immediately, probably for the first time in weeks, it just gave me a pause and I appreciate that. And I think it also speaks to something else, which again, this is the preface wrong playbook. We talk about protein, we talk about muscle, but really it's just an inroad to getting a better version of oneself. And the only way we get the better version of any individual is to go through periods of friction and actually periods of stress and interpret it differently. And this playbook is the book that I wanted to write in the beginning and it starts with ethos. I'd love to read it for you and I'd love to read it for your female entrepreneurs, male and female. I mean, listen, the guys are coming because they want to see how hot you are, but the girls are coming on here and do some work. So I just want to read this because the reason it starts, and I'll show you a picture, the reason that it starts with an ethos is because an ethos is a shared vision. Aging is inevitable. Muscle is the organ of longevity. Aging is not a luxury, but a responsibility. Through discipline, clear intention and a collective path of growth, we choose to build bodies and minds that thrive under pressure. We don't train just for performance, but for life. We don't shrink from adversity. We are sharpened by it. We lead with clarity, act with integrity. Strength is our choice and our standard. Resilience is our language. Contribution is our calling, the arm, forever strong. Okay, it makes me want to cry because... So I'll just share a little bit about where I feel I am, where the people are that we're working with. We work with a lot of entrepreneurs. We have hundreds of entrepreneurs in our masterminds. We've worked with thousands and thousands throughout the years. And I think that especially right now. I think a lot of people's businesses struggled last year. I think a lot more people's businesses are struggling this year. This is not everybody. But I truly believe throughout my whole entrepreneurship journey, because we have gone up, we've gone down, we've had a lot of money, we've had a little money, we've been freaked out by our bank accounts. Even when people think we have a lot of money, we've invested a lot of money, or our businesses have taken a lot of money. The journey of entrepreneurship is unlike anything I've ever experienced in my life. And I know even people who are career-oriented people listening to this, even your career has ups and downs. And I'm sure you've had multiple different experiences, having to hop around and be afraid of what your future is. And I really believe the people who understand what you just said, and we're going to help them understand, and who have a foundation like this, are going to be the people who are going to be able to survive and thrive. So life is going to go up and down. And Gabrielle, the only I swear to you, because this has been a year of more pressure just growing something I've never grown than I've ever had in my life. And I literally say to my husband every day, I'm like, I don't know how anyone who doesn't have a fitness foundation or workout or know how to eat well, I don't know how they survive this type of pressure that it takes to get to where you want to go. So I actually don't, I believe this component is just as, if not more important than learning a skill set or figuring out your strategy or investing in another mastermind. Like I really believe you also need to be investing in your body. I couldn't agree with you more. And what you're saying is also very true. So in this playbook, the first chapter is actually how to think. How to eat, how to move, how to recover. And I haven't really talked about this in depth before, but there is in the how to think section, it's about expanding your capacity before you need it. It's trying to figure out how you can develop thicker skin and more capability without doing it under duress. And there's ways to build physical friction, which includes training. There's ways to build emotional friction, which is counterintuitive, because one would think that's increasing the stress response. And then there's ways to build mental friction. And again, it seems you would be thinking, well, why would we want to add more friction? Because it's in these small disruptions that you get big change. And for those of you who can see this, there's a big, there's like a hazard here that happens. And then you kind of, if you are not adapting, you go below baseline. But if you learn how to adapt, you have a challenge, you go through it, but you come back up to baseline much faster. And you begin to step up even a little bit more and actually build lasting resiliency, which I think, again, what is it that we're building? We're building our bodies and our minds and our legacies so that we can make the world a better place. It comes from this counterintuitive aspect of adding in small friction. OK, I'm obsessed with this because Chris and I have had a version of this. When I say Chris and I, it's only because I've been married to him for so long. I'm two people. It's like we're 25 years together. We kind of created these theories together. So so we, you know, I really started my life in fitness. That was my career. That was my background. That became my identity. And I'm so grateful for it because like fitness and health runs so parallel to life. It runs so parallel to all these other experiences that I've had that I've I've kind of been able to have this reflection point to go, wait a minute, this is a lot like in fitness where if I want to get stronger, I actually have to break down first. Wait a minute, this is a lot like in fitness where if I want to get to my goal, I can I can make the challenge even harder and the goal will come faster. Like a lot of different things like that where you have to create your own challenge before your face before the world kind of faces you with that challenge. And I can think back to like being a wanting to be a public speaker. And I was like, well, if I want to be a public speaker, but I have massive anxiety, I need to go create these little challenges that that replicate the experience that I'm trying to have in the future, even though I'm afraid of it. So like many moments of speaking in front of a group of four instead of a group of a hundred, you know, so I've always been trying to replicate these challenges. So let's let's dig into that a little bit. What are some things that you have done for yourself? Oh, gosh, well, I would say this whole book experiences is been a challenge. Yeah, everything, you know, I'm a physician by training. There are people that have an entrepreneurial knack and then they're drawn to it. And if I were to ask you, you were a fitness professional, but you were always an entrepreneur. I've always been a physician. And I would say, you know, what do I do on the day to day rule? Right now, the last month has been all friction. Stay on the side of my can laugh, but it's it's real. It's mostly hilarious and then not really. But if I were to say, OK, well, the physical friction, for me, I've been doing cold plungers. I love it. It's amazing. But it's not always comfortable, especially if it's cold outside. It's not fun. You know, it's amazing, but that's kind of the easy stuff. But then there is. Mental friction, I'm going to give you an example of what this is. And this is very hard for me. And so I have this, I have a whole list here, but no music workouts. Now, you know me personally, which are you do? I drink a lot of caffeine and I like my music and I like to get pumped up. And you might find me at any given point in time doing pushups. I'm that person. She is that girl. I got on that girl. But that. Is easy for me. If you take that away, if you take away my ability to listen to a lot of music, to have some caffeine and to get all, you know, pumped up, that creates a lot of discomfort. If I needed to go and just have some tea and train. This would be difficult. And so this has been one of the things is I'm training with no music lately and I absolutely hate it. And I'm going to give you another, another tip so that everyone can do whatever it is that they, however they want to create friction. Now, this is delayed gratification. You flip a coin. What do you love to do? You do. You love to shop. You're a girl after my own heart. Mm hmm. What if you go and you, you flip a coin. Heds, you get to shop. You walk into that store. You get to purchase that thing. And tails, you don't. So you're all pumped up. You're already drive to the mall. Let's say you're going to the mall. You're walking Pat. You're walking into your favorite store. But before you do, you flip a coin. Heds, you get to go and tails you don't. Hmm. How annoyed would you be quite frankly, if you flip the side that didn't let you go in? Yeah, I mean, if I'm already there too, that's really annoying. And let's say you like to go to Starbucks. Heds, you get the coffee tails you don't. Over a period of time, you're like, oh, this is kind of annoying. And then by the fifth time, you don't care so much. And so there's a level of delayed gratification, not celebrating all of your wins or every win, maybe every fifth win. And people will say to me, well, that just seems like you're kind of negative. And the reality is the best entrepreneurs. And I've been taking care of entrepreneurs since for over the last decade. And I take care of all kinds of people, but really on the entrepreneurial spirit. And the best entrepreneurs that I've ever come across are neutral. They never go too high. They never go too low. Because what a beginner entrepreneur, not even beginner, but I would say a less seasoned entrepreneur, and again, some of them would be an entrepreneur for 10 to 50 years, whatever it is, there's a lot of ebbs and flows. And people relate that to be normal, the normal journey of an entrepreneur. But what happens is because of our physiology, the higher we go, the more amped up we go, the lower we fall. I resonate with that so hard. I've gotten pretty good with it now just because I got good with it because I was bad with it. You know what I mean? I got good with it because I was like, whoa, I cannot ride this way. I'm very, I look. I love a high high. I love a high high. And I used to be really okay with the low lows, but they're too frequent when you're in this business. So they're like both of them, they're too frequent. And all of a sudden you can get this very addictive pattern where if I'm not getting it every day or multiple times a day, it's almost like then you get very sad. And so now I've been for the past quite a few years, just been really trying to approach it like you said. I love, I actually love this exercise because it really does train you to not get attached. Like you're kind of just, you're allowing the information in without attaching to it, which is so huge for business, business deals, partnerships, launching a product, thinking you have something and then you don't, that's the ride you guys. You can think you have something great and the next day you don't, and you got to figure out a new path for it. And it's like with those really high emotions, you don't make good decisions. High, high emotions, you don't make good decisions and low, low emotions, you don't make good decisions. I would absolutely agree with you. And it's totally predictable and it's manageable. And the way in which you manage it is not in a big moment, but it's in the small moments leading up and the small moments in between. So, you know, I bet you, and you put on events and dinners and things, can you imagine probably the first five, you would get really young and then right. Oh yeah. Right after you might feel a little pressed. Oh, God, my first event, Gabrielle, depression for like a month. Because that mirrored how high you allowed yourself to go. That depression mirrored how high you allowed your dopamine to drive up. Yeah. So as entrepreneurs, it's very common and it's predictable that as you allow yourself to go high, there is a counterbalancing low. And when we think about what makes entrepreneurs successful in the long run, it's number one, being able to see and think clearly, be very discerning, meaning the right thought leads to the next right action. And then having a level of neutrality and taking away that reactivity so that, you know, as entrepreneurs, you're in it for the long haul and nothing derails you faster than your health, then depression, then that lull after that big sale or big event. And so if it's legacy that we are after, and I'm not talking about legacy from a financial standpoint, but it's really building into this masterful version of yourself, must be steady. You must be capable of going at it for the long haul. And that's what adding in a level of neutrality does. And understanding how to think and how to have a framework. We have frameworks for fitness. We have frameworks for food. We have frameworks for business, but we don't have mental frameworks or guard rails on how to think, be discerning and process information. Oh my gosh, it's I, this is one of the biggest pieces of everything. And I think also for fitness. I have a lot of friends who have really obviously being a trainer too. It's like in the past, really seeing that the thought process is what just kept messing with people and messing them up and getting them off track. I think far more than I got people to lift, I would talk with them the whole session. Like, so I want to kind of chat about that too, as we roll this into the body portion as well. I, some of the most common things that I see are like they get on those high highs or they think that they want to see these results right away and they're not attaching like a bigger reason like this to it. I think for fitness to work and for us to want muscle and for us to eat well, we really have to start to learn how to attach all of these different reasons why we're doing it. What are some of the ways that you have thought about that when it comes to the body that you're like, whoa, people really need to start thinking in this way in order to show up. I mean, the first thing is you have to believe that you're worthy of having the health and wellness that you desire. Yeah. What we double down on is really understanding and I'm looking at this. This is, I'll just show it to you. There's just sections here to think about things, but it's the why that you're doing it and then the knowing that you can do hard things and that you can cultivate whatever it is that you're after. But the reason that, I mean, we have to ask, why did I write a how to think section in a playbook that would anticipate would be for nutrition and movement? Right. Yeah. Well, as a physician, I've seen patients, I finished medical school in 2006. Each patient would come in with a stack of books, of nutrition books, of new diet books, of new training books. And the question is, where's the delta? Why is it that they have information, but they can't translate that information into action? And part of it is I can give you the best product ever, but if you do not have the wherewithal and you have not been disciplined in your thinking, it's never going to happen. And so understanding that there'll be physical, emotional and mental situations that one will encounter and that you have to know who you are at your best. And we all know what that feels like. I know who you are at your best. You know who you are at your best. And then you also have to know, conversely, who you are at your worst. Because they all show up in various amounts. And there's strategies that we use to cope with when we're at our best and strategies that we use to cope with when we're at our worst. And again, this is all trainable, to be able to understand how we need to be discerning and how we need to move off the axe forward to ultimately, what is it that we want? And the body piece is critical. And you, and I'll say this last thing about the mentality is that you use the body to move the mind. Here's what I just, if you imagine just your worst, most stressful day. Yep. And just like terrible. And I could imagine that for you and I could imagine it for myself. It is a visceral reaction. Yeah. Just get the news, your faces, you're just like, visceral reaction. You cannot pray your way out of it. You cannot meditate your way out of it. You cannot talk to a friend out of it. There's no way out. Do you know those moments I'm talking about? Feels like you took a chemical cocktail drug and you can't come down. There's only one way to move off that. One way that I've ever found. Use your body as a tool. Could you imagine getting that information and then going into a cold plunge? There's no way you're thinking about it. Getting that information and doing a max out sprint on an air dime or a skierg or you name it. You couldn't navigate that. There's no way that you would be able to think about all of those things. In a moment of max out effort or physical challenge. And so it is our greatest tool beyond health and fitness, beyond all of these other things. It is your ultimate tool for really mental mastery. I just want to mention that because again, it's difficult. Life is challenging. Getting a great mind frame. Organize is hard, but the body is a tool. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more, when you're starting a business, you need Northwest registered agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it, like operating agreements, meeting minutes and thousands of how to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you, this is life changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. I talk about the importance of sleep and reaching your goals all the time on this podcast, but I also know that you're probably wound pretty tight like I am. And you might have trouble transitioning from your daytime to your nighttime. So I added something that I absolutely love because you know, skin care is a big thing for me in 2026. And I love Osea's dream collection. It's really helped change that for me. Osea's dream night serum and dream night cream are clinically tested formulas powered by bio retinol and designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep. You guys know that I am all about making the things you're already doing work for you. So why not make this work for you in your sleep? So I love this because it really helps me wind down not only because of this beautiful scent and how it feels on my skin, but I'm really loving that it's something that supports my nighttime ritual while I sleep and it helps me settle in for the night because my skin feels so good. And again, it's got that nice lavender scent that I always associate to nighttime sleep because skin care truly is self-care. You guys. So Osea's newest product in the dream collection is the dream bio retinol body serum. And let me tell you skin care for me this year is not just about my face. It's about my whole body. So you should make this a key part of your personal body care routine just like I am. And I think you're going to fall in love with it. So it's a full body restorative treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a holistic blend of bio retinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender. I think the second that you put it on, you're going to feel the difference just like I did. And you're going to see the difference. I mean, talk about looking like glass skin. I literally put it on and actually feel like I want to go somewhere because my skin looks so plump and hydrated and useful. So you guys give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skin care from Osea. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site wide with code earn at OseaMalibu.com. And trust me, you're going to love this so much. You're going to want to buy one for your friends. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo. The all in one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations and AI driven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you've become the leader, that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made the sleep from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried. Because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built in to you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Set up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. I swear by this. I live this. It's it's the only way I've been able to be successful at all. 100% at like so when I was a little girl, I you know, my my family is amazing. They're very loving, but they're also very anxious. They're very depressed. They struggled with money. A lot of just kind of negativity, a lot of religious just heaviness. And so as a young girl, literally, like I remember, like 10 years old, I would leave the house and go move my body when I felt anxious, when I felt stressed, when I felt depressed, when when people were fighting, I would just always go and I'd rollerblade or I'd walk and I would go forever and it would just completely like change my state. And I would think about what I was going to be, what I wanted to do, my hopes for the future. And I did this. I mean, probably my whole childhood, I just went and I moved. And I will tell you that was the difference between, you know, sometimes you look at your siblings or people around you or your your small town. I didn't see anyone else doing that. And looking back, it was like, well, I learned how to change my state. And I learned how to get out of the environment that was causing that particular pain. And I would go move that energy through. And so of course, today, that's so much of what I do. If I get bad news, instead of going to the bottle of wine, which I would love to do. And you know, I like what you know, I like cocktails. You know, I like wine. Literally.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, and maybe a handful of cold plunging. It's these micro moments, Gabrielle, where you're choosing that. You're just choosing to move. And I don't know what else to tell people, but it's been what has saved me from myself. I really like that. I don't think people can appreciate that statement. You found something that was very positive and allowed you to move the needle forward. And I love that. Save you from yourself. We all have these patterns and habits and ultimately our ability to be discerning. And basically what you're talking about is a level of discernment. And I put together this hierarchy chart of thinking through things. Because again, when we think about what is it the outcome? So in medicine, we go, okay, what is the primary outcome? In business, what is the primary outcome? In our life, what is the primary outcome we're looking for? I would argue it's freedom. It's freedom. Whether it is physical freedom, financial freedom, it is freedom. It does not mean shock-bold by someone else or something else. It's the ability to move through life. And I'm just gonna show you, do you see this chart? It's not pretty. Yeah. Yeah. And at the bottom, and for those of you who are listening to this, it's a pyramid and at the bottom is discernment. It's right thought and then right action. And then the discipline to be able to maintain that thought or that action, and then ultimately the freedom comes. And again, we can practice discernment by knowing what is it, what is the outcome that we want? What, where is it that we wanna go? For you, you build businesses. Maybe you pick that one business and then what is that outcome? And being very laser focused on that, when I will tell you, here's the catch. The catch is, as an entrepreneur, you will never go any higher than A, your self-worth and B, your physicality. Mm-hmm. You cannot outwork your biology. And this playbook, again, we're talking about the Forever Shone playbook, it is a tactical field guide to get people there. And you know me both, I mean, you know me very well and you know me on a personal level. This allows a level of, it's like you're, you know how they say you don't have a manual for parenting? Mm-hmm. Like you don't. Yeah. But here you go, here's one for your body. I might not have you covered for parenting, but I have you covered for other things. And this book represents the new guidelines, it has the new dietary guidelines. It has all the information that someone could take to be able to implement very tactically. I love it because it's not, the way that you have it laid out to you guys, it's like such a guidebook with photos, with pictures, with questions. And I love the fact that it starts with the thoughts and that you have the spots to ask yourself all of the questions, which by the way, I know I literally can't get off it, I'll get off it in a second. But the think part is so important. I'm telling you, own a gym for a very long time, had a lot of clients like the online space too, it all came down to what they were thinking and their environment. And if they were capable of kind of changing those, not kind of, if they were capable of following through and figuring out how to think and change those two things. I'm gonna say one more thing, I'm just gonna throw this out there, because again, you mentor a lot of people, people change and there's always an ability to get better, 100%. Now, you know the entrepreneurs that come into your group, I bet off the bat, you know who's gonna be able to be successful. I mean, I heard it's gonna be able to be successful. But I bet there's a handful of attributes or characteristics that these people have that you're like, you know what? She's gonna be able to, she's got it. Do you know what I'm saying? I do. And I don't wanna say that, because we all have to work for it, we do. The reality is is we all have to work for it, but there is definitely a level of capacity that people have and I guarantee you, everyone listening to this or watching this can develop that, whether they have it naturally or not. I agree, there's a lot of verbiage, there's a lot of things they say off the top, there's a way that they carry themselves, there's a way that they, you know, if I'm in a space with them for a long time, the way they choose to move, the food that they choose, there's so many components that go into it that I can see like, oh, this person is gonna go faster or have a better chance, because this person still needs to learn how to think, how to make decisions, how to show up in the room. And so there's absolutely like, there's a set that if I were to write them down, I could tell you exactly what those are. It's cultivatable. Totally. It's cultivatable. And so, you know, I think that understanding that piece, how to think is critical. And then of course, how do we take care of our body? And yes, you know, how to eat and how to move are both critical. Happy to talk about either, because listen, as an entrepreneur, you cannot be held hostage to your own physiology. You cannot outwork your biology and you cannot outsmart your physiology. So you have to become very anchored in a good plan and program to be able to move the needle forward, just to be able to function and to think while it's critical. And you know, when is this coming out? This is coming out soon, right? Like, wait guys, as soon as we can. I gotta tell you what a good friend worry is. Again, in our Tiger ring, I'm like ladies. I'm really behind on being able to bring this book to the world and it's really important. And can you help me? And we are Thursday afternoon on the Tuesday before the book launch. And here you are showing up for me. I am just... You do the same for me. This is what we do. This is literally what we do. And this is needed and it's important. So I'm grateful for you for doing the work so that I can just show up and have the best conversation with you. So I wanna dig into the movement part and the food part because I think a lot of people are absolutely overwhelmed by what to do because now that we have social media, I'm like, okay, so I shouldn't be eating anything because even the healthy food is bad. I'm not in that frame of mind anymore at all. But I think when people don't have... I'm probably even more, way more open than you are Gabrielle, meaning like for food choices. But with that said, what I want people to hear is, can you tell us a good spot to start that doesn't feel overwhelming? Because you know when you're already doing projects and you're already going for the big thing, it's like my brain sometimes can only handle so much. And I'm like, okay, I know that this is the top of what I should be doing, but can you kind of tell me the bottom of what will work as well? Yes, and you make a really good point. When you are overwhelmed, it seems like there's no cognitive capacity. And so what I did is I designed a plan that you don't have to think about. Just visually on your plate. I mean, it's not going to get any simpler than this. Are you ready? Are you ready for it? It is a food that is broken in two thirds. That's it. Protein is your focal point on the bottom. Dietary protein, everything has protein in it. Now even Starbucks coffee, which is hilarious. Dietary protein, it can be animal, it can be plant-based. Just get your protein in. Obviously I love animal-based proteins. This is chicken, beef, fish, egg, yogurt. One third of your plate is protein. One third of your plate is fruits or vegetables. And then if you're training, one third of your plate is starchy carbs. That's it. No thinking. And the entrepreneur is like, oh my God, I don't have time for this. I'll take it down another notch. If you don't want to look at your plate, totally fine. But what you have to do, and this is really important, because this is a non-negotiable and you have to get the food piece right. And I'm not talking about anything to do with aesthetics, looking good, has nothing to do with that. You do have to get the food piece right because it's what powers your brain. It's what powers your ability to actually do the work that you need to do. And what I want is I want no less than 100 grams of protein. Step up, 100 grams of protein. To be a weight protein shake with 20 to 50 grams in one sitting and then another protein shake, just get 100 grams of protein. And I bet you, I bet you your world changes. Simplify. That's it, you prioritize protein, you eat whole foods. Work place to start. I'll wait to see if you've got questions for that. Like instead of spaghetti and meatballs, it's meatballs and spaghetti. Totally. So that changed my life. And I am such a protein girl. And so I actually, we'll see if this is right or not, but I have an unlimited protein. Like I can have as much lean protein as I want in one sitting, which you tend to not want a massive pile of protein, so I'm not too concerned about it. But that changing changed my life. I was like, I'm never gonna measure my protein because I'm meaning like I'm gonna eat a lot of it. And I bet I settle around the 50-ish gram, maybe some of 60 gram of protein in one to two meals per day because I was like, well, if I can eat unlimited healthy protein, it doesn't leave a whole lot of room for other things. And if you kind of like eat it a little bit slower, once that protein hits your stomach, you're like, damn, that's a lot of food. That's some dense food. So that actually really changed my life, like years and years ago, where, you know, I think in the beginning, it was important for me to learn nutrition and measure and do all the things, but I became a slave to it. And I wanted to like be free of that. So I was like, okay, how should I eat? And it was like, okay, well, unlimited veggies and unlimited lean protein. And then just kind of watch your starches. And that actually changed the game for me. And so I'm a huge protein girlie. I'm 45. I have a shit ton of muscle. Like honestly, I like my body more now than I've ever liked it. And it's like, it is truly because I have been a consistent lifter three times a week. Sometimes it's heavy, sometimes it's lighter, but it's always weights and lots of protein. It is transformative because here's why. Are you ready? We're at this. When you don't think about your body, you have freedom. If you are not. Freedom. I spent so many years thinking about my body composition. Same. If I, and I have never shown these photos before, but I think I should. Now you know me, for those of you don't, I'm a lot of mouth and a little person. Five foot one, maybe a buck 10. And I have photos of me. I was 145 pounds. And I should really start to share. And I was consumed. I was consumed with food. I was consumed with weight. And I spent so much of my life not being able to be present. Ah, same. You know what I'm talking about? I lived that way and it ruins your life. It ruins your life. It's not, it doesn't have any, there's no freedom. And so if you prioritize dietary protein, you know, there's a lot of discussion about these GLP ones. One of the reasons they work is they increase the tidiness, meaning you're full on work. And also it slows gastric emptying down. But more importantly, is it quote, almost augments your willpower? You don't have this desire to eat the cupcakes or the cookies that are at the office or any of those things because you're just not thinking about it, it quiets the food noise. Yeah. And your protein does that. Again, you probably have structures in your business. You wake up, you go through email, you do X, Y, and Z. This is no different. You wake up, you have your protein shake, you brush your teeth. And what it does is, again, it's not even about aesthetics. It's once you have your dietary protein, you're hitting, there's essential amino acids. You guys don't care about what that is. Your group might need, I'm sure they know, but it's essential nutrients that you need, that you cannot make that help with brain function, help with neural transmitters, help with gut health, all of these separate things. But if you anchor that first meal right, you don't have to think about the rest. And that becomes critical. Again, it's how do we have good brain power? How do we have good strength? How do we have more freedom? And how do we teach ourselves to be discerning, meaning focusing on the things that matter and being able to turn away from the things that don't? And ladies, I've been doing a lot of research because of Glossy around things that you need to make your Botox work, your Sculptural work, to look younger, to have muscle in your body and in your face, like there's muscles in your face. We need amino acids for a lot of those things to work properly. So don't waste your money if you're not getting your amino acids. Truly, it's such a game changer. It's critical. It's a critical part of health and wellness. And you need more of it as you age. You don't need life. And it's the most important essential nutrient. And also, you've heard this message to go more plant-based and it's not the right message. And evidence doesn't support that. And what ends up happening is then I get these women in my clinic that for the last seven years have tried to go more plant-based. And when I say plant-based, the best of both worlds is plant and animal. I was plant-based for many years until my hair started falling out, Keith got weak. And then you waste so much time. And really, the goal of this playbook is there's a lot of different ways to do things right and it teaches you. If you wanna be more plant-based, okay, but here's the way to do it so that you don't have to think about it. And so it's not all consuming. And what's missing in the plant-based that is different than an animal? And can animal also just be fish for people? Or a great question. Yes. Plants and animal sources of protein, plants, many plants have all the essential amino acids, but the volume at which you would have to consume them are much higher. Meaning if you like quinoa, when you go to New York, it's you go to this fresh press or whatever it's called. And it says these little quinoa bowls and it's like, here's your protein power. But it would take six cups of quinoa to equal, small chicken breasts. It's gonna be real bloated. Exactly. And it's very misleading. And the other aspect of it is that the protein in plants is typically bound to fiber, the whole, and a lot more calories. So for example, if you're gonna have a cup, two cups of beans, that's a lot more carbohydrates. Therefore, if one is going plant-based for their, quote, health, I would advise against it. If it's for a moral reason, then we'll figure it out. But if we're talking about nutrient density, which means how many vitamins and minerals are in, you know, and macronutrients in a serving, animal-based products are very nutrient dense. It has high quality B12 and zinc and iron. Most women of childbearing age, many of them suffer from anemia. That, or if you're getting your period. And so how do we choose a nutrition plan that needs all of our needs so that we feel great and have more energy and age well? This is why it becomes so important. To your original question is, could it just be fish? It could just be fish. Again, we're looking for B12, zinc, iron. Those are not very bioavailable in plants. And again, we just have to think, how do we design a diet that supports what we are doing? Okay, there's so much in this book. But Gabrielle, I feel like, you know, when I get to be in these rooms with you where maybe people don't, like they don't get to know like the deep, deep passion. And I mean, you are just so fiery. And you know, I'm so attracted to that. I'm like a fire sign. I'm obsessed with anyone who has that passion around this message of protein, of health, of muscle, as longevity. Tell me, like what are some things, because we don't have a lot of time left, but I want to know, what do you want people to know? Like what do you need them to understand? Okay. We're talking about muscle and we're talking about protein. But what I really want is I want to build stronger, more resilient humans. And there is no way to do it without taking care of our physicality, period end of story. Muscle is the organ of longevity. It is also the tool for self mastery. And there is going to be a moment where you don't get to use that anymore. And while we're talking about all these other things, what we're really talking about is having a collective vision of building a stronger, more resilient human. So that they can go out and you can go out and do better work. Do the hard thing. It's worth it. Small friction, big change. Nutrition, you don't have time to be confused. We have to lean in to good scientific evidence in a way that is off our plate. We are not thinking about it. I don't want you to everything about protein or everything about your training again. I want you to know what you have to do and to go out and execute. And from the body perspective is there's no way around resistance training. A stronger, faster body is a stronger, faster mind. A large portion of the brain is designed for movement. If you want to think fast and be a better entrepreneur, you have to be able to move fast. Two other things. Ladies, you're not gonna get bulky. No, I'm lifting my toddler and each other for the last seven years, I'm still trying to get bulky. And you've lifted weights for whole life. Don't say that you haven't. You've lifted luggage, you've lifted groceries, you've lifted suitcases, you've lifted in your house, you're lifting, you've lifted your dog, you've lifted weights for whole life. Strength is a responsibility. It's not a luxury. And there are many different domains of strength, but it does start with this foundational architecture of the human being. Oh my God, amen. I feel like sometimes it's so funny, I can kind of get away from that message, but I'm living that message. Does that make sense? Like that is so important to me. I live it, I wake up with it. I know how important it is for me to do all of the work that I do. Even this podcast, like all of the things to have the brain space, to be able to have the consistency to like myself enough to continue on and find new things to be interested in and go out in the world and continue to believe that my life is still in front of me at 45 rather than behind me. Like if I didn't have fitness and health as a foundation, I think I'd be a very different 45 year old. I don't think, I know. Cause this is a really interesting place for people. And anyone listening who's around this age group, I'm finding this is a really unique age to be right now. And I think a lot of people are feeling like life is behind them, like their best days are behind them, like their best body is behind them. And they're feeling really hopeless. And this, everything that you just said is how I live my life. And I want to live it even more that way because now I'm even more passionate because I know you and I get to hear this message all the time. But that is the difference between feeling like life is starting to be over and that we're just getting started. And I don't care where you are listening to this. If you feel, maybe you do feel hopeless, maybe you do feel like it's too late. It's astounding how many people I've seen turn their lives around in six months to a year. Like absolutely flip it on their heads. And just the fact of eating the way that you have in your book, which I highly recommend getting so you can really understand it because I do believe there's an anchoring that happens and understanding that will help you do it. You can listen to the podcast, but once you read the book and you learn, learning anchors the why. Like so deeply with nutrition and you go, oh, wait, I'm not just eating because I want to look good. I'm eating because this is giving me this serotonin or dopamine or muscle or whatever it is that you learn about that anchors you. And it's going to give you this whole other half of your life that maybe the best half hasn't even happened yet. And so I believe by you making stronger humans, Gabrielle, I mean, it just makes everybody better. It gives hope, it's happier. It's like there's so much out there for people and it's all going to start here. It's not going to start with what you're doing and what your work is. It's going to start with how you're feeding yourself, treating yourself and how you're thinking. I couldn't agree with you more and I've seen it in action. And again, people will be like, oh, I'm here to learn business and I would say, yes, absolutely you are. But there is no way around this piece. It's actually the path. It's just the path. So I'm just so grateful that you're up for chatting about it. And I promise, I promise you guys reading this book, if this book was the book I wanted to write, it has recovery tools, which by the way, friends, recovery is not a hot bubble bath. It has hot protocols, ice protocols, cold protocols, recipes, which by the way are amazing and they're easy because I'm hands down the worst cook you've ever met. Ever. And I just know that this book is going to, it's going to change people's lives because there's so much science out there and so much information. But this is the field guide manual out of it. And you know me very well. I do not say that. No, you really don't. And it's really, really amazing. OK, so I want to do a book giveaway. So I'm buying for the first people for the first people who share this episode tag at Dr. Gabrielle Lyon and say the biggest takeaway from this podcast. We will send you a book. I will buy up to, we'll do the first 10 people who do it. So make sure you tag you guys and then I'll send you a book. OK, so grateful for you. What else should they know? Any last words? We take patients. Strong medical. Yes. Learn all about it at Dr. Gabrielle Lyon.com. And depending on when you're watching this, Dr. Gabrielle Lyon.com slash playbook with a ton of free giveaways. You have an amazing telehealth practice called Strong Medical. I have a great podcast called the Dr. Gabrielle Lyon Show. We talk to all the world leading experts on various health topics. And yeah, you can find me on Instagram and OnlyFans. I'm just kidding. I'm not. There's also nothing wrong with that. I was like, did you put your feet on there or what? Yeah, it's actually my. Like biceps. It's just biceps. It's my hands. Yes, great. But I believe that I can change the world. But I don't believe I can do it alone. And I believe that we collectively can. And you already are. So fun to watch you on your mission and all of the crazy things that you have already been able to do in the last couple of years that I've even known you. So I'm so grateful for you. And you guys, again, just for that giveaway, give her a tag. Give me a tag as well at Lori Harder so I can see it, so I can track it. And all you have to do is take a screenshot of this podcast that you're listening on, upload the screenshot with her tag, with the biggest takeaway from the show, and I will message you, get your address, and send you her book. All right, I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you. Love you, friend. Love you, friend.

=== FILE: The Little-Known Manifestation Hack That Changes Everything (Health, Love, & Money) ｜ Mimi Bouchard [jVGD-uZHwUk].txt ===

 think about your self-image like it is the core of an onion and there are all these layers outside of it. You can try to change the outside layers like your habits, for example, but if you are trying to change a habit and you haven't changed your self-image first, that is why you keep failing. You haven't changed your self-image yet. You have not changed how you see yourself yet. That is what magnetized certain opportunities and people towards me. That is how I have been able to feel confident in certain decisions that I make. It's because that self-image came first before the thing manifested. Mimi, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for coming on the show. Thank you for having me, Laurie. I'm so happy to be here. You know, we were just chatting before this and I told you this is perfect timing for my life and perfect timing for the podcast listeners because I think the last three or four solo episodes that I've done are all about visualization, manifesting, and I don't necessarily have tools for them. This is the most perfect timing because you are the queen of helping people create what they want in their lives. We're going to deep dive today, you guys. We're not just going to talk about manifesting, visualization, meditation, all the tools and tricks, but you're going to walk away with actual, tangible activations. We're going to talk about that. Mimi, if you could share a little bit about what you do right now, what your app is that I'm so excited about, and then just what got you into that in the beginning? Absolutely. My journey started about a decade ago. I was getting really into personal development after going through a pretty tough period in my life. I was at a point where I didn't really recognize myself when I was looking in the mirror. I had a deep amount of self-hatred. I hated how I looked, how I felt. I didn't like who I was becoming, and that's when I found personal development and it really did save me at the time. So I became addicted to it because the more work that I did on myself, the more that I read about how my potential is limitless in this world, the more that I researched how we could actually be the creator of our lives, that we are 100% responsible for our lives. Here's why. When I looked into the neuroscience behind how visualization worked and how you can actually train your brain to be different, your thoughts to be different, the more that I dived into this work, the better I felt. So I went from being very unhappy in every aspect of my life. There was nothing really going for me at that time. Then I did the work and I got really into this personal development work about a decade ago. So that's good at the beginning stages. I dived into it. I became kind of obsessed with it. For people listening, because I think, where exactly emotionally were you at? What were you feeling every day? Was there something specifically that was going on that was like, holy shit, this needs to change. I have to change my reality. What did that look like for you? A lot of shame and anxiety and self-hatred. I was living paycheck to paycheck. I at one point had like under $10 in my bank account. I was trying to hustle, trying to make my dreams a reality. I wanted more. I wanted a bigger life. And there was this feeling of stuckness because I knew deep down that I could create something different for myself. But I just wasn't doing it. And I kept doing the things that I knew were bad for me, drinking a lot, doing drugs, not treating myself with respect. I also just had deep confidence issues. I felt very unsure of myself. I allowed other people to really just dictate a lot in my life. And I didn't feel healthy from a physical standpoint. I was like 30 pounds heavier and just didn't like how I felt in my body. Felt very puffy all the time. I didn't have any relationship. I had never had a relationship at that point in my life. And I was really yearning for love in my life. I felt very alone. The friends that I had didn't feel real. Kind of every area, to be totally honest with you, was not great. I also was struggling with eating disorder and just really not liking myself through and through. So I was numbing out. I was on my phone a lot. I was numbing out with food. I was numbing out with drinking and drugs. I just was in this place where nothing was going right. And so I went through this radical change. And it started like I mentioned reading books, just absorbing everything that I could about this work and seeing that light at the end of the tunnel. And I always had that voice deep inside of me that I believe every single person has. Everyone listening has that little voice of what if. What if life could be better? What if I could experience more? What if I could actually do that thing and live this type of existence? My one chance at life, my one opportunity on this beautiful earth as a human. What if I could actually live this amazing existence? So that voice got louder and louder the more clear I got, the less numb that I felt. And this just happened gradually with me starting to prioritize myself more. And listen, it wasn't this overnight. I had an epiphany and I changed. It wasn't that. Because if it was going to be that, I would have waited forever. It had to be these small incremental changes every day, right? But the longer that I went through this journey, the more that I saw what was working and what I actually saw tangible results from and what was not working, the things that I would do. And I'm like, I don't feel any different. Nothing is changing. So I think due to my obsession with trying to find shortcuts and trying to get things done quickly. And, you know, I'm very impatient just as a person. I think that benefited me in the sense because I actually started to figure out what worked in transformation and total life transformation. And what didn't work? So, you know, I gathered all the information that I absorbed from, you know, those mentors, those books, those seminars, those, you know, all of those unlimited pieces of, you know, educational content that I consumed online at the time. And I still have a very, you know, huge, huge interest in, and, you know, the science of it all, the neuroscience of it all, the quantum physics theories to support, you know, all this manifestation work, I'm very interested in all of it. And I actually just released a book a couple months ago with Hey House called Activate Your Future Self. And that is so much research that I've gathered over the years in one book. So I'm kind of obsessed with understanding why and figuring out the best, easiest way to get there. So long story short, I started doing all the things. Okay, I did what all those specialists, mentors, teachers told me to do to change my life. And a lot of it started to, you know, really work slowly, but surely I started journaling more, I started, you know, clearing up my friendship circle and realizing I'm an average of the five people I surround myself with most, I started to go out, less, drink less and be more introspective and spend a lot more time alone. And journaling was actually a big part of this at the time. And then I, you know, tried to meditate. That was one of the things everyone says that you should do is meditate. And I just couldn't stick to it. That was the one thing that I felt a lot of resistance with this meditation. And listen, I know meditation is good for you if you want to calm your nervous system and clear your thoughts and feel at peace. And that's great. But that's not really what I was seeking at the time. What I was seeking is something energizing, something invigorating, something that made me feel that that morsel of inspiration when I'd listened to that little gut feeling inside of me had come in a fleeting moment and it fall away and that inspiration would dwindle. I wanted to bottle up that feeling of like inspiration and excitement towards my future. And I wasn't really getting that with meditation. I also felt it was very hard to sit and close my eyes for 20 minutes and sit still and, you know, try to clear my head. Like it wasn't, it didn't make sense to me. Why am I trying to do this? I'm trying to radically transform my life. This is what I'm trying to do here. I'm trying to get out of being broke. I'm trying to improve my relationship with myself, you know, like find love, like be my best self, you know, create a successful career for myself. I didn't see how calming my mind was going to help me get there. But then I was reading a lot about visualization and about how, you know, our brains are are able to be rewired, neural pathways are able to be, you know, reset. And so I wanted to get the benefits of an audio that would help me feel a certain way and rewire my mind. And once I, you know, decided, you know, what meditation is just not working for me, I intuitively took out my phone one day, and this was about eight years ago. I took out my phone and I opened the voice memo app on my phone. And I recorded my first little, did I know it was going to be called an activation, but I recorded my first activation on my voice memos. And this was a visualization focus, motivational audio, describing my future, getting myself into the energy of my future self, mixed with, you know, just deep inspirational words. And then I'd also layer in music, I brought that audio to GarageBand, and I started getting obsessed with inspirational cinematic music, because we all know that music just has a way at changing our state, right? So I started to layer in this inspiring music. And then I create like five of these, and then I get bored of them. And I wanted to create more. So I literally had a library of dozens of these, because you kind of get bored of them quickly, you want to just listen to new fresh content sometimes. But I'd listen to these audios in everyday moments. Okay, I was, this is just my personal transformation tool. I didn't really share with anyone. I'd listen to these audios when I was on the bus, going to one of my four jobs at the time, I would listen to these audios cooking dinner in my tiny 200 square foot apartment studio apartment, I would listen to these audios, you know, in the morning when I was getting ready. And I'm telling you, Gori, the if you're looking at this like a graph, the bell curve of how quickly my life started to transform when I started listening to these activations, it was insane. It was like this exponential growth. And I had been working on myself for a couple of years, you know, before that point before I started activating. But but really the stark difference was just surreal. And then years later, I decided, you know, I'm just going to share a few of these that make the more general and share them with the world. And that's kind of how I'm where I am today. You know, I launched activations out four years ago. And it's been insane, the growth that we've seen, I've never done any traditional marketing, it's been word of mouth, people telling people they've tried it, and it changed their lives, we have like, 10s of 1000s of success stories. So it's definitely been something I think a lot of us need. And something that we could have it back a new type of audio that's cinematic, that's motivational, that makes you feel like you're the main character in your own movie. And that's when I created activations. And you can't really find anything like it anywhere else. Oh, my God, we have a scary similar story. Like scary. So I well, I, you know, when I was younger, I was really into just, yeah, all the things alcohol, drugs, really bad friendship circle. And I kind of started doing the same thing, books, courses, lectures, I went to an event in 2014 by Jack Canfield, and he taught us how to do that, record our own activate like an activation, but a visualization. You just have to do shots can feel and hit my first personal development book that I read was the success principles. Yeah, I went to that event. So I went to train the trainer. So it was a three week training. And this really started this journey of you guys, I can attest to everything she's saying. And, you know, while I've done this for programs and recorded some for myself, I love that you've gone all in because the world needs it more than ever because it is truly what changed my life as well. So I can, I can sit here and say everything she's saying is so important because I, I had started trying to do the same thing. Like I started meditating. And while I hit a really good streak for about a year, like 20 minutes a day, I got certified in transcendental meditation. I just I'm a mover, like I'm a runner, I'm super active. I've been a fitness girl my entire life. And so for me, it wasn't until I actually I started running, you know, three, four times a week, and I'd run for like six miles, three or four times a week, and I would listen to like a lecture or that's when I like did the Jack Canfield thing and we record some different things and play it back to myself. And I feel like that is when I just get you just get lit up like it gets into yourselves. I believe moving with a quote unquote meditation and why I love you're doing activations is truly we'll talk about that particular word as well. But when people have asked what has changed my life, it is because I go out and I move with something in my ears where I am picturing my life specifically on something. And so I know we're going to talk about so many things, but this is why I love your app so much is because you got really, really specific about different activities. It's like, listen to this, you know, activation while you're cleaning your house for X, Y and Z. And so it's we're going to I'll talk about exact titles, but you get so specific with every little moment in your life, you can be listening to these different things. And I am like, I'm just going to preach for a minute because it's like, we need to be putting these thoughts in our head as much as possible, because otherwise the world social media, you know, Netflix, like whatever you're watching, it's going to try to get you down. It's going to try to sidetrack you. It's going to try to break your energy, pull you out of that energy. It is not easy to stay in that high vibration. And since I've really been doing this even in the last month again, I'm back in it because I got a little bit away from it. I am like a fucking magnet, like truly. Yeah, I think you need to plug this in. And so that brings me to my question, like let's really get into like activations, like what exactly are they? Why are they different from meditations, you know, from just like sitting there? What does it actually do? What's what's kind of the science behind it? Yeah, absolutely. So activations are a new type of audio that I've developed. They're not a podcast, not a meditation, not just music, it's a new category of sound. And this category of sound is personal development, manifestation, visualization turned all the way up in and packaged in a way that makes it so accessible. You know, I'm a big habit stacker. I'm like always doing five things at a time. And that's actually originally why I couldn't stick to meditation because I was trying to think of a hundred things. And I thought I was failing at that. But little did I know that was actually one of the gifts that I have is I'm able to, you know, do a ton of things at once and think in a different way. And when I started to just lean into that benefiting me and not being something I should be ashamed of, everything started to change. So traditional meditation is about calming the mind. And then you have visualization, which is just a term, you know, you can do visualization while you're writing and journaling and visualization, you can do anywhere anytime, but activations really brings and heightens this visualization, you know, brain rewiring component alongside the very powerful music that we use. And this changes your energy changes your state very quickly, all together into an activation. So activations are the opposite to meditation, they're energizing, you listen while you're running errands, while you're doing your makeup in the morning, while you're walking, the walking activations are my absolute favorite. The cooking ones, you know, there's a jazzy activation for while you're cooking after a long day when you just want to reconnect to your best self. Every activation in the app, and we have over 700 activations in the app at this point, every single one is designed to have you change your state by the end of it. So you feel the results quickly with me in meditation, you know, I definitely see how meditation over time, like you did it for a year, I'm sure over time you see a big difference, but I never saw a difference immediately, it was, I'm impatient, remember, like I wanted the quick change. So activation immediate, like it makes you feel different immediately. And that is largely in part 50% of the equation other than the guided visualization and words that we use in the audios, 50% of the equation is the music that we use, I use, and I've sourced globally some of the best TV and movie composers that there are. I'm talking people that are like the next Hans Zimmer, you know, like serious, incredible, incredible artists that literally design and create this music to make you feel like you are transforming. And this is instructing your brain subconsciously, telling yourself I'm in the midst of a transformation, I am becoming my future self, I am already my future self when you listen to this music. All it takes is just one activation to change your state like crazy, you actually feel like the main character of your life. And it doesn't take any extra time. It's simple, it's almost effortless just to listen in the background. And I even say that, even if you're not consciously listening to the words, it's still getting into your subconscious. And the quality of these, I think also sticks out when it comes to an audio platform. I'm quite a perfectionist when it comes to creating these audios, as I've mentioned, I'm sourcing these, you know, amazing composers globally around the world and my audio engineers, and I spend a lot of time putting together the tracks and putting together the visualizations in the moment that a song drops saying a certain word to make you feel a certain way. I am very obsessed with this cinematic experience. And I think that also is one of the big things that makes us stand apart. Everything has to feel cinematic. I want everyone listening to feel like they're the main character in their life. I can get into the science behind why this helps you transform as well, but I'll stop there and just say that you use activations like you listen to a podcast. Like when I'm in the mood to listen to a podcast, I listen to a podcast, I'm in the mood to learn and actually like be quite engaged in my brain. Like I want to learn something, I want to tangibly hear conversation, right? And then I listen to music when I'm in a certain mood too. Maybe I just don't want any voice and I just want something to tune out to. Maybe it's a certain workout and I just really need to tune out. And then I listen to an audiobook when I'm in another mood. And then I listen to an activation when I'm in the mood to shift my energy and feel really alive and invigorated. And that could be in any moment of the day if I didn't have time to journal one morning because I like journal a lot. I'll listen to an activation while I'm getting ready and then I feel the same results if not more. So this is really something that you can use with your day. You can have it stack. You don't have to carve out time from your day. We're already all so busy. So a lot of our users just use this in their daily life. They listen to one in the background once the day, three times a week and they feel the shift and it's really created a notable difference in tens of thousands of women's lives. I think one of the biggest things that you said that is the easiest thing that people can do. And whether you're listening to this and you're like, I don't know if that works. It works because what happens is when you are deciding what you're going to be thinking about for the day, that is what you're focused on. And that's what you start seeing. Like you're going to start seeing possibility rather than if I wake up and I'm thinking of what I need to do that day and what's going wrong and what is scary about the world. I literally get more of that. If I have a big to-do list in my head, guess how I'm going to feel all day? Like I'm never going to get it done. And that's the energy that I'm in is like this pressure. This like there's not enough time. How am I going to get this done? Oh my gosh, the world is so scary. Like this is how this is generally what I would say majority of the population is walking around with and they wonder why they have no energy to make anything happen. Because if your brain is focused on negative things, like your energy is so low. Because I used to do this to my clients in the gym meeting, which is like so perfect for you to know that this is like so awesome and this works. So I would be like asking my, when I owned a gym, I would have them like be curling something heavy. I would have them with like an uncomfortable weight. And I'd be like, okay, I want you to think the most positive thought, like something awesome in your life, like something that's going to happen, something amazing while you're curling that weight. And I'm like, how's it feel? They're like, oh, pretty good. I mean, it's really heavy. But then I would say, okay, I want you to think of something super sad, something really negative, something and they would stop lifting. They're like, I can't even lift this. Like I feel so down. Like they're like, I literally feel like I can't even lift this anymore. And I'm like, that is literally the power of our thoughts. Like you can either feel like things are very doable, very tolerable. Or when you're thinking negative, nothing in your life is going to feel tolerable. And that's why if you don't have people or friends in your life, like I didn't, in the beginning, I paid for them, whether it was a lecture, an app, an event, or podcasts, an audio book, I was like, I need other people to be filling in my brain right now while I am choosing, you know, if I was left up to my own devices, I'm choosing negative thoughts. So this is why you guys, it's so cool. Like this morning, while I was putting my makeup on Mimi, I listened to set goals for your day and feel inspired. And which is one of her activations. And what I loved is that you were asking me, like getting me intentionally into a place of like, what would be like the most important thing for me to do today, essentially, like what would move the needle the most for like what I want. I was like, that's such a great intentional question that I think we forget to ask ourselves because we get so caught up in like the mundane and things we have to do. So this is the type of thing you guys that you'll be experiencing if you do it, it's just questions we should be asking yourself and kind of like that re focusing. So who do you, who do you think activations are really for? Well, a lot of our users are in a place in their life where they might be going through a transition or they're feeling stuck. A lot of our users come when they're feeling stuck, like they feel like, you know, there's more to some area of their life. Listen, we have some users that come and try to, you know, change a complete 180 every aspect of their life. But we also have users that live a pretty good life and they're pretty grateful for the life that they live, but they just want to feel more alive every day or they just want to feel a bit more connected to themselves or they just want to be a bit happier in their day to day life. We have a lot of success stories with people that have used the app and some of my favorites are actually in my book, but I can share one of them with you. So we have this one woman named Allie that was using the app and she is a teacher, middle school teacher and she, you know, had been pretty much making the same amount of money for years now and, you know, teachers don't get paid enough, you know, she was not making a ton of money and she was pretty stressed about the amount that she was making. So she wanted to create more wealth in her life and she actually heard me on a podcast a couple of years ago because I do a lot of these and she decided, you know what, I am going to just listen to these activations and take advantage of the two week trial and I'm just going to go all in, you know, what do I have to lose? So she downloaded the app, went to the website to download the app and I know just before I finish this story, you have a special link if everyone here wants to try the app for two weeks completely free plus a massive discount on the yearly if you want to stay subscribed. So that's activations.com slash happy and by the way, we can only offer discounts on the website, not the app store. So go to the website first to get the trial and then you can download the app after but so Ali basically did the same thing. She heard me on a podcast, went to the website, signed up, got the two week free trial, went to the app store, downloaded the app and then she just started listening probably once a day or five days a week, you know, she would just listen to these activations. A lot of the time it was the money focused ones. We have a lot of manifesting money and wealth and getting into your abundant energy activations. So really big category in the app because money is one of those things that you can really tune into with a new frequency and we can get into that later in the actual science behind how our biofields, the energy inside and around us actually attract like energy and how we can become the type of person that actually has a certain level of wealth that experiences wealth in a different way with our self image. So going back to the point though, so Ali, she was listening to these activations in this two week free trial and she started feeling very different after listening just in the background of her life. I think she listened in the car while she was driving to work. I think she'd listened to the any time category then and maybe at night, you know, while she was getting ready for bed and it was just very casual. She didn't think much of it. It wasn't, you know, big deal but she would listen to these. Okay. And soon enough, she got this crazy random offer. Okay. One of her old students came to her with this like consulting gig and she basically doubled her income just from this one opportunity and she doesn't think it's a coincidence that it was because she started doing this work and really tuning in and resetting her frequency and to say the least, she's been subscribed for many years and she will be a forever subscriber. She also just said that she felt completely different, you know, after using this for two weeks and at the end of the day, you know, we live one life. We want to feel good. Our lives are, you know, we feel like they're so long and big and they are but the reality is that our life is actually made up of the moment that we're in right now in this exact moment. We are not experiencing the past or the future. We're only ever living in the moment. So the quality of those moments is everything. So even if, you know, Allie didn't manifest this crazy opportunity that doubled her income that year, you know, she says that she still loves to use this because it just makes her feel good, you know. So I love that you listened to the Getting Ready one this morning. It just changes your state. I feel so passionate about this because for so long, I felt so lost and for so long, I felt like a shell of myself and I felt really sad that I wasn't reaching my potential in life and it really scared me to wake up one morning when I'm, you know, 85 years old and look back on my life and feel regret because that like connection with how short life is really started to get to me at that point in my life and it really started to scare me. So, you know, really just doing everything I could to tune into that potential to create the life of my dreams and to now hear how this work has helped so many people feel the same. Like that's the biggest why for me, Lori, honestly. It's like we should all have the gift of feeling good every day. I just want to feel good. This is what this work is about. It's about feeling good and creating a beautiful future for yourself and that shift internally really exudes externally with your energy, your biofield. I write about this in my book. We all have biofields or energy fields, some people call them, that span three to six meters around us and this is measured by science. Like you can measure biofields and our biofields are made up of energy and it comes from us. We are the source of this energy and there are so many things to prove that this work works, that this work of changing your beliefs, of really putting yourself out there and listening to new things and thinking new thoughts and designing a new self-image. There is literally proof everywhere that this works. I like to say this quote. I don't know where it's from. I haven't been able to source it but I heard it somewhere and it says something like, you know, spiritualists will call it law of attraction, Christians will call it prayer, atheists will call it the placebo effect, scientists will call it quantum physics. It's literally the same thing in different languages and personally, you know, I don't know exactly what I even believe in. I'm kind of open to all potentials but all I know is that there is the truth in between all of that, the same thing in different languages and I've seen firsthand how it's transformed my life and thousands of others of lives that I've seen kind of through this work over time and it's a really good time to start now. You know how much sleep affects everything from your mood, your energy and you hear me talk about this with skin all the time but let's be really honest unwinding at night for entrepreneurs and anyone who's listening to this podcast is probably pretty challenging because we love to replay the day and think of our big goals.  and all of the things that we want and need to be doing the next day. That's why my nighttime routine has become a non-negotiable, it's become super sacred to me, and I've been using OSEA products. And their dream collection has completely up-leveled how I wind down at night. Their dream night serum and their dream night cream are clinically tested formulas powered by Bio-Retinol, and they're designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep, which I really need right now. I wake up feeling like my skin actually got to rest. It feels softer, it feels smoother, and it feels really nourished. And as someone who struggles with really dry skin, I love how rich and creamy these feel without being heavy. So my nightly wind down ritual isn't just about skincare, it's about creating a sense of serenity at the end of the day. So it's choosing products that work while you sleep, and this helps me slow down, settle in, and take care of myself, because skincare really is self-care, and I am also obsessed with the scent of these. And I'm excited to share that OSEA just launched their newest product in the dream collection, the Dream Bio-Retinol Body Serum, which is a full-body overnight treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a blend of Bio-Retinol, red seaweed, magnesium, and lavender, which is why I love the smell. It helps reduce visible dryness and dullness, improves elasticity, and lets your skin feeling softer and smoother by the morning. This is absolutely becoming a core part of my body care routine in 2026. So give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skincare from OSEA, and right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order sitewide with code EARN at oseamellaboo.com. That's O-S-E-A-M-A-L-I-B-U.com. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more when you're starting a business, you need Northwest Registered Agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools, and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer-drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale, and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it, like operating agreements, meeting minutes, and thousands of how-to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you, this is life-changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you become the leader, that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify, 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made the sleep from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you photos. So marketing is built into you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. I feel like if we're even breaking it down at the most basic level for skeptical people, which I think most people who listen to my podcast aren't, but for anybody who's just like, okay, how does this work? I want you to think about a time when you have been in a room and someone walks in and they're just like super outgoing. They're looking up their body language is super open. Their arms aren't crossed. They look like they want to talk to you. They're armed with questions that are amazing or a story. Like, they're just you're like, whoa, how do some people just have it? Like, you know, a woman walks in and you're like, whoa, what is that? What that is is someone who has done a lot of work to feel confident, to feel certain, to like be exuding that energy. And on the most basic level, even talking about like, if you were an employer, you know, I'm now an employer, it's like, I want to work with the person who's enthusiastic, who's looking up, who's open, who has that great energy, who's like confident in what they do. And this is all work that is done by what we're talking about. Like, you have to be thinking of what you want, you have to be thinking of who you want to be, you have to be visualizing that future self. And if we had to pick who we wanted to hang out with, who we wanted to hire, who we wanted in our circles, we would pick the people who are doing work like this mentally, like they're not thinking negative thoughts, they're not thinking of what they don't want in their life. So this is really helping you become that person who quote unquote becomes a magnet. And you're like, Oh, why do they want to work with these people? That's why. And the biggest thing is actually the trick to all of this and simplifying the art of transformation, it all comes down to being the person you want to be now, before the things that you want materialized into real world actual experiences. So the whole, you know, basis behind the work that I do, the work that I teach activations, it's all about training yourself image to be different. It's all about reprogramming your identity to be the future self now. That is all that it is, these activations help you live your future now, they help you step into your future self in this exact moment in time. And when you do that, everything in your life starts to change, because it all starts when your self image, your identity changes. Think about your self image like it is the core of an onion, and there are all these layers outside of it. You can try to change the outside layers like your habits, for example, but if you have, or trying to change a habit, and you haven't changed yourself image first, that is why you keep failing and not being, and you're not being consistent with that habit, because you haven't gone to the root yet, you haven't changed yourself image yet, you have not changed how you see yourself yet. And that's what so many people get wrong. And that's why personal development and transformation gets so over complicated. I wish more people knew this, it's all about just changing your self image first. And I can give a very simple example. If you see yourself as the type of person who lives in a very fit, healthy body, let's say, for me, I used to hate working out, now I love to go to my Pilates classes, and I love to take care of my body, I really, really see myself as the type of person that lives in a body that is happy and healthy and looks and feels a certain way to be totally honest. So for me, when I book in, you know, my Pilates class or decide to eat something healthy at a restaurant, it comes naturally to me, there's no resistance in my mind, thinking, oh, I really, like, you know, sometimes, of course, I don't feel as inspired or motivated, but my baseline is like, oh, yeah, this is just what I do. It's how I treat myself, it's who I am, right? And the same thing would happen, I'm not a runner, but if I wanted to be, I would change myself image first, before starting to be a runner, you know, a runner would feel weird in the morning, when they don't run, like you feel weird when you don't do that thing. Whereas someone who does not identify as a runner feels like it's really hard to go put your running shoes on in the morning and go for a run. The same thing goes when it comes to finances and career. I have seen firsthand what your self image can do to your income. And let me tell you, it is everything. It is literally everything. I walk into a room now and I feel very confident in the level of success that I've achieved. And therefore, even before I achieved this level, by the way, I embodied this essence. And that is what created more of that into my life. That is what, you know, magnetized certain opportunities and people towards me. That is how I have been able to feel confident in certain decisions that I make, and hiring certain people and making these big moves. It's because that self image came first before the thing manifested. So the self image is massive. And if we want to stay on the topic of simplifying transformation, I can tell you my two step process to transformation. Yeah, before it. So I, again, I like the quick route. I like the shortcut. I like change to be effortless. You know, listen, I am the type of person that wants the quick route that wants it now that is impatient. And this is what I have found to be true. If you want to condense any personal development book you've ever read, or any, you know, esoteric book you read, any scientific book you have read about personal transformation, it comes down to these two steps. The first step is clarity. To create your dream life, you must get crystal clear on who your future self is. You must get crystal clear on her frequency on how it feels to be her energetically in your body. You need to know what it's like to be her now just in your body physically, energetically, because your energy becomes a magnet to what it exudes, right? So clarity is number one. And the step number two is becoming. You must then become your future self in everyday moments. In the boring mundane moments in your life, when you're waiting in line at the grocery store, when you're walking your dog in the morning, you need to just consistently show up as her, show up as her in her energy. And that is exactly precisely what activations help you do. They help you rewire your brain in these everyday moments, be your future self in your five minute walk with your dog in the morning when you're putting on your makeup, you know, when you're getting ready to go in those everyday little moments when you are embodying your future self energy, you're taking advantage of classical conditioning. We've all heard of the Pavlov dog theory. Pavlov rings the bell, the dog salivates classical conditioning, pairing a new thought or a new action with a certain thought and putting them together and getting a visceral response in your body. So you can actually do that when you listen to activations. That's what they're designed to do. It's literally designed to hack transformation. And it is so amazing that this exists because it makes it more effortless and more simple than ever before. So that is the trick. Clarity number one, you have to get clear first. You know, if you don't know where you're going, you just stop everything and start getting clear. That's all you need to do with step one. And step two is become your future self in everyday moments. And that is the trick. And I'm telling you when I use this combination in areas of my life, things happen fast, things happen so fast. My life, this success that I've experienced shouldn't have happened, sorry. And I pinch myself every day looking at this life. It shouldn't have happened. I'm 28 years old. I have a business worth 40 to $50 million. I am living my dream life. I have two homes. I live between London and the Bahamas. I am in a beautiful relationship and I'm getting married next month. I feel like I have it all. My health is there. The people that I love, you know, are beautiful relationships with. I genuinely feel like this life shouldn't have happened. It shouldn't have happened. It was all too crazy, too quick. And all I did that was consistent in this time was do this work. I changed my self image. I chose that I was going to be this type of person. I came from that place of not having anything, of not having that support from family. I come from two struggling artists, parents. I love them, bless them, but I didn't come for money. I created this fully myself and I am dedicated for the rest of my life teaching people how to do the same thing because I'm not special. It shouldn't have happened to me. Anyone can do this. Anyone can create this dream life and it starts with your energy and it's so accessible. You don't even need to download activations if you don't want to. I don't don't do it if you don't want to do it yourself. Commit yourself every day. Start journaling, writing down, getting clear on what you want. You can record your own voice memos. If you feel like it gets repetitive or boring or you want something that's already done for you, then you can try the two week free trial, but you don't need to download the app to see these results. You can just do it yourself and try and put yourself first and really just start to cultivate that relationship with yourself. I think I've been going on a tangent for a while. I think we're so great about it too. I'm just thinking about when I've now done, oh my gosh, I think I have over 1400 episodes, 1400 episodes on this podcast. I've gotten to talk to the most incredible, successful people. A lot of the people who I would say really became unstoppable and just had insane businesses. They had somebody who breathed life into them. They eventually got a mentor or some of them had parents who were just telling them every single day what was possible and breathing life into them. I think for those of us who maybe did not have that, this is a version of that. You need something that breathes life into you every day and reminds you of who the fuck you are literally. I'm so passionate about that Mimi. I literally put out a secret podcast with that saying literally everything you're saying, because you have to have something that you can cling on to, that you can go to every single day to go and breathe life into you. What I love about your app is that you have so many different, I was actually blown away. I was like, this girl has been recording. Has she done anything else besides record these activations? There's 700, right? Over side. There is a lot. That's pretty much all I do. My passion. Listen, as a business owner, I don't like doing the operational stuff. I'm more of the visionary. I like to create. I'm more creative. I don't like, I saw higher amazing people to do the rest. At the beginning, listen, I was unable to hire the people to do the rest. I had to go through times where I didn't like what I was doing. That's okay too. It's part of the process. But yes, the recording is my art. It is literally the creation of these activations. I do them for myself. That's the thing. I create them for myself. I listen to these every day. So selfishly, I want them to be perfect. Do you know what I mean? But I want to reiterate something here because I know I mentioned the transformation that I've seen, especially financially in my life, but I'm thinking about who I'm speaking to right now and the audience I'm speaking to. I know there are a lot of insanely motivated women listening to this podcast. But I also just want to say that a successful life doesn't necessarily mean having tens of millions of dollars. If that's what you want, just know that you can create it. For me, financial huge abundance was very important because I experienced a lot of lack and fear around money when I was growing up. There was a lot of lack. My parents had to remortgage the house, the Cajillion times, and we had a lot of lack around money. There were bankruptcies in the family. I felt very unstable. So for me, money was actually a big motivator. I got into all this work. But now after creating all of this, I've realized it also isn't everything. Yes, money is amazing. But you can create this amazing life with just a beautiful, glorious, delicious life with love and happiness and friends and just enough to live the life you want to live. So every single person's clarity of what their future self-life has will be different. I'm sharing mine, but we have people that have used activations that really don't care as much about that. They care about other things. They care about their relationship with themselves. They care about the relationship they have with others, helping the world in different ways. So everyone will have their why. And I just wanted to reiterate that because sometimes I feel a bit weird talking about this transformation that I've had financially. And I just want to make sure that everyone realizes that whatever you want, you can have. You don't need to want the same things that other people want. Totally. Well, I love money and talking about money on here. Okay, well, you know who we're talking to. Everyone who wants just a shitload of money is welcome on this podcast. I have the same background. My parents went bankrupt. My husband and I lost our homes, lost our cars. We were $300,000 in debt. It became very clear to me that it was my duty to learn how to make a ton of money and share with how I could do that. And also, everyone is just like you said, everyone is also welcome. I have so many friends who are like, you know what, I'm so happy now that I'm making less money and that my family life is just I'm like way mad in it. I get that. I get that. And I can't say I'll be here forever. I might be in a totally different place in five years. I have no clue. I just know we all have different purposes, you know, such different purposes at different times in our life and we can have multiple purposes. So I love that. And your abyss is so inclusive of that. Let's touch. You've already touched a lot on the science actually, but is there anything that you're like, I literally have to share this because it was crazy when I learned it. Oh, okay. So I'm kind of obsessed with this and you're going to love this too. I've gone through phases over the past decade of like going into, you know, I started with the Jack Canfields of the world. I love him, the basics, the principles, the fundamentals, very easy to read, you know, feel good, bite sized, personal development. Then I got into the Joe Dispens as a bit more spiritual. And you know, and then I got into, you know, I went through before the Joe Dispens phase. I went through a big Tony Robbins phase. I've literally gone through all the phases, but now I'm having the same life, by the way. It's great. Well, we are very connected, I guess, without even realizing it. Well, I'm excited to introduce you to our mutual next phase now. Thank you so much. Let's go. Have you heard of the Russian quantum physicist Vadim Zelland? No, so let's go. Let's go. So basically, he wrote a book called Reality Transurfing. It is literally like this thing for everyone listening on audio. I am holding my hands like very wide right now, like the biggest book in the world. And it was translated from Russian to English. And he, you cannot find him anywhere. He's not online. He's just like in a rush somewhere living in a completely different universe, but like literally has the codes to quantum physics. These quantum physics theories that he has proven to be true, you know, in his own life and his work. And so quantum physics are unlimited theories, right? There are so many things that we don't know, because we are very simple humans still at this point in evolution. And we, you know, don't, we don't even, there are so many things in quantum physics that confuses the world, right? Like we, people don't understand so many of these theories that why certain things happen. And this is where you see like particles are attracted by like particles. And, you know, you see when you observe a particle, it behaves differently. There are certain things that are just very strange. And also you can't just like delete energy. So energy has to transfer somewhere. That's why a lot of people think that there is an afterlife after death, because how can your energy, your soul, like just disappear? Like it has to transition, right? So there are a lot of people, you know, that have creative theories based on what they found, because quantum physics is still pretty up in the air. Anyway, I'm obsessed with this guy Vadim Zelen's theory on how to manifest and create the life that you desire with quantum physics. It's basically his version of how the world works. You know, we all think the world works in one way. He thinks it works in another way based on this quantum physics theory. And I have seen so many similarities to what he teaches, to what Dr. Joe teaches, to what Jack Hanfield teaches, to what, you know, Tony Robbins teaches, to what all of these, you know, big names in personal development, there's so many commonalities, just like I was talking before about how, you know, Christians will call it prayer, atheists will call it placebo effect, you know, it's all the, you know, different, the same thing in different words, right? So anyway, there is something in Vadim Zelen's book, he calls them lifelines. So essentially, he states that there are unlimited parallel realities slash lifelines that exist at any given moment. Okay. In any given moment, there are unlimited realities. So there is a lifeline where you and I are in person doing this podcast. There is a lifeline where I've blonde hair and you brown hair. There is a lifeline where you're married to Brad Pitt. You know, like there is literally a lifeline. Any possibility in the entire world that you could ever imagine exists at any given moment and past and present and future all exist at the same time. Anyway, so going back to the lifeline theory, timeline, lifeline, some people call it quantum jumping. Anyway, he just calls them lifelines. And what I have interpreted from his work is that you can essentially select the lifeline that you want to live in any moment with a snap of a finger. And you can select it by connecting your energy with it by elevating your frequency to match the very specific frequency of that lifeline that you desire. And I have seen firsthand how like I've actually experienced jumping from lifeline to lifeline. I don't want to get to woo woo here because listen, I'm I'm a little woo, I'm a little spiritual, but I'm very grounded in like the pragmatic approach. Like I'm I like proof I like the science. So a part of me does obviously like to explore other options. But I have firsthand experienced this. And and I've done it three times with like the same activation on the app. The first time was when I was approving it after it was created by my audio engineers. And I was listening to it while I was walking. And I literally shifted lifelines. And I felt everything look different. Colors look different around me. And ever since those specific moments in the past, let's say here, I've done it three or four times. It was always while listening to a walking activation specifically. And I can tell you which one. So one of the ones that I was just referring to when I was walking and approving it, it's called embody magnetic manifestation energy. That one on the app, I think it's in any time or walking activation. And so that was one of them. And then the other ones that I've had shifted lifelines with. I don't know if you've tried the targeted visualization category. There's one. There's a whole manifest money like specific visualization category. If you go to the explore page, then targeted visualizations, go to the manifest money category. And you can see here, like there is literally manifest everything from $1,000 all the way to $100 million and everything in between. So $1,000, $5,000, $10,000, $50,000, going up to $100 million. So I have been listening to these. This is my new kind of recent hyper fixation on the app because I go through phases where I just listen to the same one a thousand times and I'm sick of it. But essentially, the manifest specific amount of money ones I've shifted lifelines with so many times. Like I genuinely feel and everything around me looks so different. And I've heard from other users too that they have felt the same when they know about Vadim's work. Anyway, so the shifting lifelines thing, it's crazy because he states that, you know, to select that you need to move towards your desires and use, you know, it's like the law of assumption, expect it to happen. Be so rooted in this new self image that you just expect it to happen. And a lot of his work is pretty complicated. Like it's kind of hard to understand the book is so big and it's translated from Russian. A lot of the work I've actually in my own way has I've explained in my book, activate your future self. So for everyone listening, go buy Vadim's book for sure. But if you want something that you can also read, that's a bit more tangible that maybe says it in a way that's a bit more Western that you could probably understand a bit more, check out my book, activate your future self. But anyway, it was just so fascinating because he's my new, like his work is so complex and so interesting. And it just really confirms everything that I've learned in every other kind of area over the years. This makes so much sense to me because I'm thinking about if you can't go into the scenarios where like truly what you're saying like jumping lifelines, that's what they're called, right? Like lifeline or timelines like a lot of people call it, then being able to imagine yourself doing it, I believe is the same. So I, you know, for everybody who watches our Christianized life, we kind of swear by these, we just have never titled it like jumping lifelines, but like getting in the rooms and if you can't get in the rooms, which I couldn't do in the beginning, I couldn't afford it, meaning getting in the rooms like masterminds or getting to hang out with people who have the life that you want. I literally recently got to go spend a weekend with someone whose life literally blew my mind. Like I came back so different from one weekend, meaning I feel like I jumped literally like 10 quote unquote lifelines. So if you can't do that yet, which by the way, if you do these things, you'll get to a place where you are physically in their presence where it can amplify it as well, then you need to be listening to it and you need to be picturing it and you need to feel it so much that that's how that's going to happen. The only reason it happened for me is because I let myself in the weekend feel it tangibly and picture myself also in that life as well and really experience it. So you guys, the beginning phase of getting those experiences is imagining these experiences and trying to make them as real in your body as possible, which is what this entire app is about, is trying to keep you in that frequency more and more and more and more throughout the day. So my last question for you, what do you do when you feel stuck? Okay, so I didn't touch on this, but this is the whole third part of my book. It's called the maintaining category of my book. We have clarity becoming and maintaining as the third part. So the whole part of maintaining is having a quick bounce back rate. Okay, so I coined this term bounce back rate years ago. This is, you know, years and years ago. And essentially, I realized that to create your dream life, it's not about perfection. I've never had one perfect day where I woke up at 5am and didn't procrastinate and had my green juice and ate organic and didn't mindlessly scroll on social media and was perfect. Perfection doesn't exist. Okay, so I remember the beginning of my journey. I would be so tough on myself if I just slipped up a tiny bit that I would actually just ruin my progress for a week or two or months, you know, until I bounce back to feeling good again, to feeling my best self again. And then I realized that there is no human being on earth that ever is perfect. You know, the beautiful, you know, successful people that we see on, you know, the front of magazine covers, like, they didn't get where they are by being perfect. They got to where they are by having a quick bounce back rate, you know, and, you know, whether it's the health and body aesthetics that you're looking for, if you have a cookie, what it's no big deal. But if you have the whole box, because you've shamed yourself and you think that you're going to restart on Monday, because us humans, we have this penchant for clean slate, and it really, really ruins us, then you're going to be so much further behind. And so I realized that it wasn't about perfection. It was about a quick bounce back rate, because if you focus on your bounce back rate, you're going to  abalanceback, real fast. If you focus on perfection, you're going to feel like you are stuck and frozen until you find your next moment of inspiration or the next Monday or the first of the month. So you need to focus on your bounceback rate and how quickly you can bounce back after falling off the bandwagon and feeling like your best self. And when I first started my journey, it would take me months to bounce back. But now it happens in seconds because I know perfection is not the goal. It's a quick bounce back rate. Oh my god, amen. My husband and I, we call it a comeback rate, and we talked to all of our entrepreneurs about it because it's like you, that is the most important. In sports, in fitness, the comeback rate is about, you know, they always say in sports, they say, you never look back like it's what's the next play. So when you fail, you never, they don't even focus on the failure unless they're analyzing it for data to get better later. When you're in the game, which that's what we're in, you say, what's the next play? What's the next play? Like there isn't even a moment where you think about the past. I analyze this with my husband all the time because he loves football. And it'll be, you'll be watching a rookie and they'll mess up and they'll get stuck because they're thinking about how they screwed up in the last play. And you'll watch a really seasoned athlete and they just clap their hands and they rally the team around and they don't care that they just failed. They don't get stuck there. Like I love watching sports to see who's in their head and who's got that, you know, who's like you said, the bounce back, like who's only focused on how fast are they going to come back from what just happened? You guys vital. I'm so obsessed with this. Okay. So any last words? If you're listening right now and you want to change your life, focus on yourself, image, focus on becoming your future self in everyday moments, it doesn't need to be this complicated, hard thing to change an aspect or every aspect of your life. You can really simplify it down and do what actually works, which is changing your energy, changing yourself image by doing things like journaling, like listening to activations, like connecting with yourself and getting out of these numbing patterns of overscrolling on social media, getting out of distraction and focusing for just a moment on your future. You can create it if I can, anyone can and you live one life. So you might as well create the most beautiful life possible because what the work you put in now, you're going to reap the benefits 10 fold later. I'm a big believer in the investor's mentality towards life, not just investing in the stock market, but investing in every aspect of your life doing and committing now and just taking that next step voting for your future self. And if you've been convinced over this episode to try activations, I urge you to, we offer a two week free trial and a money back guarantee. So even if you forget to cancel and you hate it, you'll get your money back. I'm not here just to take money and run. I really just genuinely know that this product will change your life and you can take advantage of the two week free trial. We wanted it to be two whole weeks because in two weeks you can see a massive change in your life. So if it doesn't make you feel different in two weeks, just cancel it. But I know that if you stay committed to it, you will actually feel a huge difference and not just feel a difference. You're going to see a difference physically in your life, materially in your life. And if you want to use Lori's link, you can just go to activations.com forward slash happy. And on there, you can actually see Lori's top five activations. The team's going to put that together on the website. So you can see which ones are her favorite. You can get the two week free trial and you can sign up with a massive discount on the yearly subscription. So all I'll say is try it out and you might really change your life. Mimi, I'm so grateful. You guys, everything is down below. So we made it super, super easy for real. If you guys have listened to my podcast for the eight years it's been on, you know that this is exactly the stuff that I swear by. And now we have a tool with pretty much any scenario that you can possibly think of is on there that you're trying to imagine or work through. I mean, whether it's public speaking, whether it's creating a certain dollar amount, like it is so specific, you guys, you're going to love it. Mimi, you're incredible. I'm so grateful to you. And I love your passion. I love your energy. So thank you so much for coming on the show. Thank you so much, Laurie. I really appreciate you having me on. Yes, you guys go make sure you download it, at least give the two week trial a shot and go give her a follow as well. So until next time, everyone, earn your happy. Bye-bye.

=== FILE: The Rich Girl Rules of Networking ｜ How to Build Rooms People Never Want to Leave! [7yy0DDzH1aE].txt ===

 the first expectation of setting up a great event is the invite. Do listen. We are laughing. Invite. We are laughing because we have gotten invites where I go, what the f*** is this? We don't know. What are we going to do there? Is there going to be food there? Can't tell you. What do I wear? Not sure. Location is even undisclosed. Unsure. Until you say yes. And I'm like, but what am I saying yes to? Lunch and friends. What is that mean and why is that important to me? Hey, everyone, welcome to the podcast. We have a really fun episode for you today that we're thinking might stick. We'll find out. But this is a podcast that I have been wanting to do for a really, really long time because I do a lot of interviews and I have been wanting to do a lot of interviews and I have been wanting to do a lot of interviews and I have been wanting to do a lot of interviews and I have been wanting to bring on people or somebody that knows me really well, somebody that I love having conversations with, to be able to have like these real behind the scenes conversations of like what is going on, what we're actually doing in the business, how we feel about certain topics, how the industry is changing, just all of these different things. And instead of doing so many interviews, we've actually learned that on my podcast, on this podcast that you're listening to, that people, this feels weird to say, but people actually like hearing from the podcast host, which is myself. And if you're wondering why I'm talking in a weird like phrase, right? Or like, in a weird way, it's because I have somebody sitting here with me and it is my brand coordinator, Kayleigh McNaughton. And I'm so excited to be sitting here with you because we're going to do a really fun podcast together. Where we're just starting with some different things that her and I feel like our topics that are maybe people in our audience are consistently interested in, or we're finding sometimes it's really challenging to truly show and talk about the behind the scenes of what is actually going on in day to day life, in founder life. What's it like to build glossy? What's it like to build social media? What's it like to be a real person? What's it like to build glossy? What's it like to build social media? What's it like to be in our personal brands? What's it like to literally work together, work out together, and then go to sushi together? All the things. Like what is it like? I will just say you are about to be immersed with two people who are very alike, who have both gotten hand tattoos together and probably too many ear piercings. So there's going to be multiple ranges of what we talk about, but I'm really excited for these episodes. We're hoping that they stick. We're hoping that we have time to do them, that you guys give us enough topics to be able to do. And welcome to what we are calling right now. This may or may not stick. We just named it 30 seconds before this, but welcome to an episode of BTS, which is behind the scenes or bullshit they say. Work school. It's going to be whatever it is. So Kaylee, how are you feeling about being on the other side of the camera right now? It feels so weird. Yeah, I was going to say you are like, it's funny because you are, I feel like you're absolutely someone who like can carry on a conversation, a show you could literally, I feel like, didn't you do, what did you do? You were, you were in drama? I just attached. Yeah. I do feel like I would love a reality show. Well, then, you know, thank you so much. Welcome to your Bravo reality show. We could do a tagline. Which I am going to say, I am just, I am putting this out there that I would actually love to be on a reality show or have one. I think you could do both. Well, we have a show in mind. We do have a show in mind. I think we should say it. No, if someone takes it, go them. Okay, this is where we differ because you don't get keep and sometimes I do. It will be a really good show. Maybe we don't have the name. Okay, I think maybe, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, give the, give the concept really quick, but don't share the name because I think we need to lock that in. Okay, so of all of the things that we're doing right now in our fantasy land of like when we are having really hard times, we escape with sometimes picturing, you know, having a reality show and how fun that would be. But we all know this would bring its own set of problems. But I think it'd be so fun to go to either different stores, different restaurants. This started with restaurants for me. Yeah. And I always go to these different places where I feel like I'm like, man, there's just a couple of things that they could do in here that would completely change the vibe and I know would bring customers immediately. And so for me, every time I walk in a store or a restaurant, I'm like, God, I would love to come like, come and film this and be like, look, we just did like a checklist essentially. Yeah. And like, essentially, like we're feeling out the vibe. We're looking at what this, how it feels to be a customer. Where are you sitting? What's the flow? How were the people at the front desk? Like how did everything go for you? And we're going down this essentially like a checklist of what did they do well? What didn't they do well? What are these small tweaks that we could do that we believe could completely flip this business? And I feel like it'd be so fun to walk through the process of going through these places that are struggling, but have a lot of potential. And I think what happens is a lot of business owners, they're not people who are super about the like, they love the concept of the business, but they don't understand what really makes people feel a certain kind of way and what makes something really somewhere that people want to be. What makes the vibe? Like what makes somewhere viby? Are you asking me? No. Yeah. Well, there's nothing where someone you're sitting in a restaurant and you're like, so glad I'm eating underneath this picture of like a man out to fish. And then it's just a weird vibe. I don't know. It is like we've been in restaurants where the light is like literally shining down in your eyes and you're like, why did they not have somebody sit in every booth and go? What's the vibe from where you're sitting? Right? No, I literally was going to drop a name of a restaurant that's local and I literally had to blind like shield my eyes the whole dinner. Yeah. Because the lights just right there. Yeah. Okay. So what we're going to do on this episode is outside of pitch different reality show ideas. We've got a camera. But real quick, I do need to know if you could be on one reality show. What would it be? Oh, I don't know. You can't ask me. Would it be Below Deck? I mean, listen, I would love Housewives to be a charter guest on Below Deck. I would love to be on Housewives at some point. I, okay. Also, there's a show called Traders right now. Haven't seen it. Okay. I think you should. They just dropped a new season, but it's about lying and I don't lie to you, but listen, you really well. Great. This is great. Anyway, like I think I crushed the show about lying, but we're fine. But we're fine. I'm never lying. But I had to shake every case. No worries. Okay. So what we wanted to do is we have been talking a lot on social media. A lot of our posts on rich girl rules have been popping off and I think it hits a chord because I think that we all have this version of us that we know we want to be like it's almost like these, these standards for ourselves that we know are going to help us live into whatever rich girl means to you. And I, I really loved when we have been like starting to use that language in those posts because it's kind of polarizing, right? Yeah. Like the word rich girl, it's so funny because it's speaking specifically to an audience. Like I resonate with it really deeply. I know some people are like, ew, and I'm, I'm good with that though. Yeah. Well, I think that you can't have posts that everyone agree with. No, or you're just going to disappear. And I feel like rich girls up for interpretation. So do I. Like what do you think when you, when you think rich girl and you see that meaning like just on social media in general, what does that encompass to you? Well, I mean, I think it reminds me of the clean girl aesthetic when that came out and it was like this vibe or this like feeling of what you want. And I think rich girl gives the same thing for at least me. No, I agree. It's, it's weird how some words, and I think that's where like, I think that's people with a really strong brand where it comes in. You're like, whoa, those two words like encompass, it encompasses a lifestyle. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Like you have to be rich to like get this. Yeah. Like clean girl. I really don't embody all of that, but I want to. Right. And like I, I picture all of it immediately when I, when I hear those words, I'm like, yeah, that's aspiring. That's what I would love to be. 100%. I'm going to adopt that and I'm going to work on that, but I probably. And you don't have to take all the pieces of it. Right. You can have what feels right for you. Okay. So we have rich girl rules for networking, essentially for like seven figure networking. Yep. And this is really about, I wanted to share all of the different ways that I have been able to grow income and grow network through the years. And so this is based off of some of our posts. Yeah. Okay. So rule number one is pay for proximity. So when did you first realize that paying for proximity was the fastest way to grow? Okay. Let me think back. I think the very first time was in. Okay. A way, way back. I was going to say in network marketing, but I realized that I paid for my first coach and it was a fitness coach. And I remember we did not have a lot of money. This was like during the, we've been talking a lot about this, the 2008 recession. And Chris had said to me this horrible phrase, which I love him for it now, but he was like, you need to figure out like what you're doing with this little expensive hobby of yours. Because yeah, we love, we love that from him. And because at the time it was a little expensive hobby. But I knew where it was going in my head and my vision, but to him, when we didn't really have the money and if I'm like paying for these different things to do these fitness competitions, which is I knew that the fitness competitions would hopefully get fitness covers, which would hopefully start this fitness business. But I knew that I wanted to coach with the best of the best because I didn't even understand this. I had never done this before. This wasn't meaning I had never like knew to pay for a coach. I'd never thought about coaching, but once I found the vehicle, like once you find something that really lights you up, I was like fitness is the vehicle. I'm already fairly, I already understand it. It's kind of transformed my life. I know that I don't want to waste time. I think when your back is up against the wall and time is of the essence, that's also that might sound counterintuitive, but it was also the time where I'm like, I don't want to waste time. I don't want to cut corners. I want to go coach with the best. Who who is coaching the winners. So I found a woman who is coaching the winners. I actually found her through MTV True Life and it was I want to be a fitness competitor. Okay, that's great. I know. And I was watching MTV and I was like, I want to coach with her because she took a new name like doctor who like did not look like she wasn't ready for a fitness competition. She never worked out. Yeah. And this woman's like, well, I'm the best coach. I'm going to turn you into one in this amount of time. And she did. And I was like, if she can do that for that woman and I'm already on my way, like what could she do for me? Yeah. So I took one of my it was probably only like my third or fourth airplane ride ever. And I'd never taken one by myself ever. Wait, how old were you? 26. Maybe it was like my fifth or six or something, but it was like I hardly ever traveled and I've never traveled alone in my entire life. So I traveled out to Boston and paid a bunch of money to go stay for the weekend and and I had this real realization of what it did. It like collapsed time. It did all of the things that we are about to talk about in here. Yeah. And I never looked back. That's awesome. Well, yeah, I feel like when you pick someone who's already done it, they're a professional at it. Yeah, totally. So tell me, although I would love to hear from you, do you have an experience in your life where you have either paid for a coach, a mentor, a college course, something that you were like, this is like there's no other way to life rather than like paying for figuring out how to do it. Yeah, I'll give you an example. Well mine's similar in a sense. So I mean, you know this, but I was like on a huge weight loss journey at one point, but it started with this girl I found on Instagram. Her name's Tessa. She's the best. Go Tessa. We love you. We talk. If you ever hear this, we talk about you a lot. We love Tessa. I found her and I don't know, I've been trying to do it my whole life like by myself and it was just very inconsistent. And for some reason I felt very called to her. She just felt like the exact person that I would connect with and also knew exactly what she was doing and whatever. And her price was like a little outside of what I would pay for ever, especially since I was paying for all of my own things. And it was the first big investment I've ever made into yourself, into myself. And it was like, we'll see if this works. Like I hope it does. But also I think it was like paying for her knowledge. I could just show up. I didn't have to think about what weights to use. I didn't have to think about a program. I didn't have to think about anything else. I just showed up. She had all the knowledge and expertise and then I obviously learned it all through that in the accountability piece, which I think is like huge. How much weight did you lose with her? Over the span of a couple of years, probably like three or four years, I lost 70, 80 pounds. Yeah. Crazy transformation. Yeah. And it just stuck. Like after that. Yeah. Like everything was just ingrained in that. And I owe a lot of that to her. Well, so much of that people don't even realize like if you think of how much time you were spending with Tessa. Yeah. Probably more than you spend with any friends. No, yeah, I would work any other person out with her. And by hang out, I mean, I would work out with. So legitimately you become who you're around the most. So when I trained people, it was like, okay, the people who I see three, four times a week. I saw them more than anyone else saw them. So they were picking up more of my habits, good or bad, like whatever it was that we were talking about. Like if we're, it's crazy because I think that's how, you know, when you look back with Tessa, you probably felt really close to her because you're spending time. She's a great influence on you. You're feeling good when you leave. Like when I was a trainer, my clients always felt really close to me. I felt close to them too. But what happens is you, you are becoming like your environment. Literally. You are who you're around the most. And it's crazy because we've had people, and I told you this, but when people come work for us, they tend to like get in better shape or lose weight or whatever that looks like because we spend the most time with them. And it's our lifestyle and it's kind of like, we want those people to be living at their like max capacity for what feels great for them. And we know if you're eating crap and you don't feel good and you're not moving, you're not doing great. You know what I mean? Yeah. So when, I think I told you this, but we went up to Dan Martel's. Yeah. This is crazy. This is crazy. But I love this story. I actually love it. I want to get nervous how much you love it. And I want to get the balls to do it. Like, which we kind of do. You kind of do this. Wait, I love this for us. Oh God. We already do this. We do already do this. I'll go back to what I was going to say, but you're ambitious. We'll share a lot more about how, you know, great we are. I'm just kidding. No, she's not. We will. We will, but it's because we want you to have, we want you to have these same like standards for yourself. And I love that I get to work with you because you are such a let's try it person. I'm a, yeah, sure girl. You're a, yeah, sure girl, but it's like, I'm not going to ask you to do things that I don't think would absolutely benefit you. I would never ask you to do things. You've also never asked me to do anything that you wouldn't do yourself. Right. That I, that's true. What I don't already do or want to be doing. The dogs just came in, you guys. It's a big, really important bananas and bonkers. It's just there here to be pet right now in the middle of this. So at Dan Martels, he has an actual rule where like you can't work there unless you meal prep. Yeah. Like, and people stay on top of it. Like, and we just incorporated. Well, what we do is I ask Kaylee like what her, because I know you have major, I do health and fitness goals. And if I didn't know how important those were to you, I would never hold you to this standard. Yeah. But I know how important they are to you. And so they're important to me because that's like being your best self and when you're your best self, it's like, it's life changing for everyone. It's like life changing for all of us to be around. And it's just such a fun thing to be a part of. So you're like this week, we wrote on our board, we have a board, which I won't tell you too much about yet, but it's called our burning goals board. It's a goals list. It's a goals. It's a bear. It's a goals list with some very serious goals. That's serious. Um, like if we don't hit it, there's just some, there's some, um, you cautionary tales. There's some things we have to do that we don't want to do. Yeah. Um, so with that, and those who knows if they'll change, but we have one right now that we really don't want to do. And so on there, you have right like right now, it's like you want to do a shake a day. You want to be, um, like prepping your food. We're going to, we're going to, we're going to get that more down for sure. But I feel like we are starting with you. You got to start at the top. We're starting with a shake a day. Like you want to just like be like, okay, let's get this all on track. And we have a lot of other stuff on there, but we didn't put personal goals on there before, but we are now because we know how important those personal goals are to us actually showing up for the work goals as well. So paying for proximity. I mean, this is all about proximity and all about environment. So if you guys don't have the environment we just talked about, like you will most likely need to pay for a trainer, pay for it. And that was like in the grand scheme that might've felt high at the time. I would do it a hundred times over. A hundred times because I bet you got so much ROI on that. Oh, I did. My whole life changed. What changed for you? The way I think about my relationship with my body, the way I look at food and exercise and like, and she was great too, because it wasn't just like, do this to lose the weight. It was very much like the whole journey, right? Like love yourself through every phase of it and also learn what you need to learn about yourself and like take into account how you are during certain times of the year or how you act when you're on certain food, you know, eat certain foods and things like that. So it was just like all the knowledge that I ever needed. So she was like super holistic. Like let's look at this from a whole life, a whole life thing. And she like genuinely cared about me and where I was at. And like my journey was so different than her next client's journey, you know, and it never felt like it was just a one size fits all thing. It was very tailored to me, which I feel like a lot of times when you pay for specific rooms like that, it can be. Yeah. For sure. Is Tessa and Pasadena still? Is she still training? Nearby. Burbank. She's been in Burbank. I know. She's growing. Yeah. What's Tessa's last name? Her Instagram's Tessa Ray. Oh gosh, Reyes Benz. But she's grown her whole program. Okay. We love this. I know. We love her. Go check her out if you're in the area or if you want to go check it out because clearly I am so grateful and reaping the benefits of all of her hard work, personal development and all the things that went into you. So that's so exciting for me. Okay. So kind of with that though, I feel like there are people who are just like afraid to pay to be in those rooms or to be in masterminds where they think they need to grow. Why do you feel like people are so terrified to invest in that? I think there's a lot of reasons. I think if we're talking about paying first, which we can talk about paying then just talking about getting in them in general. I think people are afraid that they won't get an ROI on their investment. And so this is also a big part of why you have to change the way you think about even your belief in yourself because like if you were afraid of paying Tessa, it's because there's a part of you that doesn't believe you're going to follow through. Totally. Oh wait, literally you feel like you're going to waste your money? Yes. You're going to waste your money because you may not show up. And I would say sometimes when you pay more, you show up. When you pay a lot, you pay attention. When you pay a lot, you pay a lot of attention. When you pay a little, you pay a little attention. 100%. And so this is why looking at my story and your story, you were like, she was a little out of my range. Yeah. Yeah, because if you went with someone who was $20 a session, how many times would you have canceled? No, I literally never canceled once. Exactly. Because I was like, I'm not wasting my money. Exactly. And so, I mean, you and I know this right now. We have some stuff on the board that it's like we might have to waste some money. And you and I both, as a core value, don't like wasting money. We like putting it towards things that mean a lot to us. And what we would have to do doesn't mean a lot to us. So we don't like wasting money. And so I think that is a big belief of going, oh, number one, maybe I'm not looking to, maybe I'm still only investing in things where I'm giving myself a way out. When you invest a lot, you're kind of burning the boats. You're saying, I'm either going to make this work or I'm losing this cash. That's a big thing. And I know sometimes even people who are like, oh, yeah, I invested in Planet Fitness or whatever, no offense to Planet Fitness, but it's known to be a lower price. And they're like, I don't go. I'm like, well, how about that lifetime membership that costs a shit ton? No, seriously. That you're like, no, I'm going because I can't waste this. I think it's really like it's facing off with yourself going, what accountability do I need in order to show up in that room? The other side of it is I think people are afraid to go in these rooms because they don't believe they fit in yet and they don't believe they're going to have value. And I've gone into so many big rooms where I'm like, oh my God, I'm the smallest fish in the room. I feel like nobody is interested in me. No one's paying attention. This is like what you want because you don't want to go into a room where you're the biggest fish. Why did you pay for it? You could have put the room on by yourself and you don't want to go into a room where you're not going to be completely challenged and it's not going to be your training camp. Like you are like wanting to join the NFL and you want to go to like you want to go and get trained. Like you want to go and get better. You want to coach who is like the best coach who you know you're going to grow and you don't want to just go to practice and have it feel like you didn't learn anything. You know, you don't want to go be playing in, I don't know, JV or whatever JV's football. I don't even know. I think that's right. But you literally want to make sure that you feel that way, that you are going to grow your capacity, that you're going to be stretched. That's how you're going to get them. When people feel that way, I'm like, okay, well, you're going to get the most value of anybody out of the whole year because you get to walk in the room and you get to sit there and go, yeah, I'm really uncomfortable. Yeah. Oh, wow. I'm watching how much I don't want to raise my hand and I'm going to make myself raise my hand. Like, yeah, when you take a room where you are uncomfortable and you decide to show up different, that's the goal. You need a room where you get to actually practice showing up as a different version of yourself. And if you're comfortable, you don't get to do that. Yeah, at all. Yeah. So I think that you have to realize that when you're terrified of it, that's going to be your biggest growth spot. Like I used to always say, like fear literally marks the spot of all of your blessings, all of them. Okay. But did any opportunities change for you? Okay. This is where it started getting really fun is when you go into these higher net worth rooms, you guys, for example, some of you are like, yeah, but how do you find them? I didn't go into these right away. Sometimes my version of a high net worth room was a podcast because I couldn't afford it. Sometimes my version of that was being in people's courses who were making a lot of money and teaching how to do that. Sometimes it was when I finally could pay for some of their coaching or whatever that looked like. But when I finally did actually get in the room and started going to masterminds and events, what happens is a whole other level starts to unlock because you have now like energetically showed up through not only being in person in a room and getting the courage to get on a plane or go walk into that room that intimidates you. So you're already showing that you are like in, like you're saying, I'm in, I'm raising my hand. I'm serious about growth. I'm serious about wanting to show up. So already you're qualified in that room to the other high net worth people or other people who have committed to the same goal as you and you're raising your hand and saying, hey, I'm serious. Like I really want to do this. I've put the money down. I am showing up. I'm uncomfortable in this room. And what happens is all of those people have great networks and they're all very committed. You're all very committed to the same thing, which is growth, which is making money, which is to growing business. And it's kind of like a room that pre-qualifies you. So now everyone, instead of fishing outside of that room for what they need, whether it's a hire or whether it's a partner or whether it's information or whether it's someone, like I said, they want to, they want to partner with, they're going to look inside that room because you're creating a network by saying everyone's voluntarily putting themselves in the same like pot saying, I'm someone who is going to take this really serious. So with that, the opportunities start opening up where, you know, let's say, you know, I met Lindsay. I met Lindsay earlier, like earlier on networking with our network marketing company, but I like reconnected with her at a mastermind that I was actually speaking at and she was an attendee at. And what ended up happening is I was like, whoa, she's really serious about her growth. Like she paid for this mastermind. I'm speaking at this mastermind. I'm really serious about mine. I was like, I want to talk to her about something like about some events that we want to be doing. And so what happens is if you have events or you have something that you want to do, you're going to talk to the person who is already investing in growth. And so, you know, I met Jenna Kutcher at a mastermind at Lewis House Mastermind. Interesting. And so it's like, you're going to find these people. I met Jasmine Starr at Lewis House Mastermind. Yeah. So you find all of these opportunities, these friends, if they have events now, all of a sudden you're speaking there, if they have a podcast now, all of a sudden you're on the podcast, you would never, I would have never gotten those opportunities if I hadn't been like, damn, we just paid $50,000 for this mastermind. Now, all of a sudden you're meeting these people who are serious and you're like, if you hit it off with them, you're all of a sudden on their podcast that you would have never gotten that opportunity before. Totally. Well, you make the connections and you all want to be there to like grow or get better. Yes. Totally. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss. You've become the leader. That idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap. And I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built in to you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard in 2026. Stop waiting and start selling with Shopify, set up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first, judging this new year with Shopify by your side. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more, when you're starting a business, you need Northwest registered agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U S with over 1,500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with Lord.  lawyer-drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale, and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it, like operating agreements, meeting minutes, and thousands of how-to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you, this is life-changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand, and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. Okay, so rule number three coming off of rule number two is borrow belief until it becomes identity. You talk a lot about borrowing belief just in general, but what does that actually look like for you in your real life? The first time I remember really doing this income wise, I did this a lot in the fitness world and borrowing belief for me meant not only looking at magazine covers of people in the fitness world and going and watching them at a fitness competition, I needed to know their background. Meaning I needed to find somebody with a similar story who made a major change that maybe was even more work than I would have to do to get that transformation. So I had to go borrow their story. I would dig into that. I would find so much proof of people who had done what I want to do, but in even harder situations than me. And so I was like, if they can do it, why am I any different? So what you need to do when you're borrowing belief is you need to make the people who have done it no different than you. You almost need to like knock them off a pedestal. And I think that's one of the most important things that we can do. And I also think that's when I look for leaders that I really want to follow, I look for people who really show the behind the scenes because if you don't show that, it's not possible for people. Then the second time is when I first joined network marketing, the girl who is actually my client who ended up losing 100 pounds, I thought, you know, I was training her and I'm like, oh, go me. But it wasn't just me. I was like all these other things she was doing. But I got to take that journey with her. She was like, trying to get me into network marketing this whole time, like, no, oh my gosh, like that's just for, you know, that's that's sleazy. I don't want to be a part of it. It's like snake oil, which I just taught you about. I know. The age gap between us is like 15 years. So I have to teach her about things like snake oil sometimes. Both ways. And I learned so much from her. So she was like, I want you to be a part of this network marketing company. And I just kept saying no for so long that one day she was like, would you just do me a favor and come to this event with me? Like come and see what people are doing. And I was there in the back of the room and I was like, okay, I think this is going to be a big fat hell no for me, but we'll see. And I watched so many women walk across that stage who were making millions of dollars who had either a story like mine or something way harder. And I was like, wait a minute, I'm already like ahead of the game in where they are. Why would this not be possible for me? You have to go find those people and borrow their belief. Like you literally have to just like go, I'm no different. I can do the same thing. Yeah, that's really interesting. Actually, I feel like I've never fully thought about that. It's why like magazines for years have shared like transformation stories. But I feel like what's so cool now is they share more of it. Like it's that's one really there's so many great things about social media. But that's like one really amazing thing is really going, no, this is what it looks like every day. And love, love, love creators like that. Yeah, you get to see like the whole journey. Yes. Okay, so how do you protect yourself then from people who accidentally shrink your dreams? I mean, I think you can fully understand this like imagine when you were you don't even have to imagine I guarantee this happened on your fitness journey. Yeah, who did you have to stay away from? Oh, the people who want to sabotage. Yeah, me. So what were some hard things that you had to do? That you you you maybe couldn't even share with people at the time because they wouldn't understand what were some mental like boundaries you put on that you're like, Oh, I actually can't hang out with that person or I can't see my family for two months until I do acts like what were some of the hard things that you had to do. I mean, I it depends on the phase, right? Yeah. But and where I was at with myself and what, you know, abilities like I had to withstand like certain things. But I think one big one was I would choose what events I was going to and not going to based on the environment. Was it going to set me up for success or not? And also, I think the biggest one was yeah, picking and choosing who am I going to be who am I going to let be in my life right now? Yeah, because there are people who want they just don't want to see you succeed. Because if you succeed, it makes them feel bad about themselves. Yeah, it's honestly selfish. And I think once I learned that it was easier to tolerate those people. Yeah, but it's like I had to cut them out. At least temporarily until I could get to a space where I was like, I actually don't care what you say or do. Yeah, because I'm like going to live my own path. And you can either be with me on it or not. Nobody talks about that. Well, people do talk about it, but nobody talks about how hard that timeframe is. Yeah, it's hard. It's like, people are usually upset with you, or they think you're did you get anyone who was like, Oh, you're too good for us or Oh, you're on your like, Oh, you're on your your skinny journey. Yeah. Or when I like got to a certain size, there were people who were like, I just don't think you're healthy. I don't and I think, listen, there's a time. Yes, binge eating and drinking our faces off was so much healthier. There's a there's a fine line. I have the core girls like my two girls that are in my corner always. And I know that. And so when if they're coming to me with concerns, then I'm going to take them more seriously. Yeah, but there's also the people who are just like, I don't know, seems like it's not like seems like you're not living your life or seems it's just like a guilt kind of a thing. Yeah. And it's just interesting. It's interesting. People's true colors come out. Yeah, when you start to succeed at something that you want. And it's sometimes like not even it's not even who they are or what they mean. It's just like it's we all have like these shadow sides that it's like, you were holding up mirrors to people. It's their insecurities. Yeah, coming to life. It's just when you when you like when you made a major change, they were comfortable with how you were. Well, and it also changed their routine, right? Without their permission. Yeah, I wasn't going to be the person to say yes to going to Taco Bell at three o'clock in the morning on a Saturday. And you were reliable. You're like, you're my person that I do this with and I love this. Yeah. And every now and then we still love to go to Taco Bell three in the morning. What was your I was extra I was case state case idea extra case idea. So really, as a chicken case idea girl. But I mean, I would check I'm not. It's okay. At least I like it. I like it. Yeah. They have a chicken and shallot of burrito that I've thought about for at least a week. Look still I like all last night I texted Caitlin about it. I said I would love to go get that. Look, this is not a Taco Bell ad but but listen, talk about listen, I know that we're like all about health and fitness. But just saying I mean, just saying guys pass. Okay, here we go. Rule for rule for collapse time with mentors and invest in yourself. Okay, so why do you believe mentorship is the biggest time collapse or in business? Okay, here's the deal. We've said this 100 times. But like, I cannot get this through to people enough. Go pay for someone who's done it before. Yeah, or you're about to pay a whole lot for your mistakes. Like, go pay a decent chunk for someone who's already made all of them for you because the mistakes you're about to made are are going to be expensive. Team is expensive. Time is expensive. It's like going and getting a mentor who can like tell you about your blind spots who can tell you where to invest who can tell you what to do in your business like it is game changing. Is it gonna is it gonna make you successful overnight? No, because there is no I've I've never if you don't have a foundation already set up. Yeah, it's very different. Sometimes there is businesses that because you have a foundation, you have a team, you have something you can plug something in and it can go fast. But if you don't have those things, I've never experienced like insanely overnight success, where it's like, yeah, you're gonna pay for this mentor and in one month, you're gonna get all of your money back. Now, that does happen in our masterminds when people have businesses in place already and team is in place. And we turn these dials on their business and all of a sudden they've made all their money back and then some that happens a lot totally. But if you don't have a foundation, it's going to take a little bit of time. So when we do say collapse time with mentors, it just depends on where you are, but you are going to collapse time no matter what totally with a mentor like I have always had mentors. And whether it's it's paid or now a lot of my mentors are people in my life that I've just now grown the network so much that I have it's been 15 years you guys. So it's been 15 years of investing in relationships and in these rooms to the place where I get to call a friend who has sold a company for a literally a billion dollars and go, hey, could I get some advice on this? Could you take a look at this? Yeah. And now I'm not going to abuse that relationship and I'm not going to go crazy with it. But at the same time, you like having people like that in your life are going to drastically change your life and collapse time. So I do think anyone who's in a position right now where maybe you have a bit of a foundation set up, this is where coming into the masterminds is huge. Like, I don't think people understand how when they come into mentor collective mastermind or elite entrepreneur mastermind, which I'll just tell you guys mentor collective is for people 500k and below. So anywhere from 25k to 500k. And so fun because Kaylee works on all of these different things. So she gets to be in these rooms, she gets to see all of this here, all the questions, know all the people's names, which is so much fun. And then we have our elite entrepreneur mastermind, which is 500k and above. We know a lot of those people are already at seven figures, if not, we had a couple who were eight figures last year, which was super fun having them in there. Because a lot of those people are like, okay, let me learn about personal brand, my business is crushing it. But the advice that they would give in the room is like everyone's minds would always be blown, which was so fun. And that's the power of a mastermind is to be in these rooms where people who are so far like, like somebody who has a, a, you know, 800k business is giving an incredible personal brand advice to this person who has an eight figure business. And they're learning from each other. Because they're just in two, like they're coming in for different reasons. And so when you're thinking of mentorship, like imagine borrowing the plans and the secrets of somebody who is already so far ahead of you, or there like there is no secret right now that the industry is totally changing. Like you've worked in this industry, you came from Amy Porterfield's team in the best way. I'm so grateful for the way that it all happened. And you came over and Amy, Amy actually suggested you to me and I'm like, thank God, I literally like, so you've been in this industry, you've seen it, it is changing. It's completely different. It's so different. You need to have people who are all going, okay, but where's it changing to? What's going on? What is working? Like already for the elite mastermind, we have someone coming in who's speaking who is so like literally figured out the like low ticket course world. Yeah. And crushing it within her business. And it's not just about if you're not doing courses, which by the way, we have so many brick and mortars in there. We have so many different businesses in there, different types of businesses. We have doctors, like it's a ton of different businesses. But what's so cool about this person is that they have really figured out like funnels, systems, team. And so it has been so incredible learning from her. And I'm so excited that she's going to be coming in. And there's going to be so many different people like that who are going, Hey, something's different now. Let's look at what's working. Let's look at what's not working. Like how can we adjust this to your business? Like to be able to get access to ask these people questions, ask Chris and I questions, ask people on our team questions. Like it's life changing for your business. Like your business will change if you come into one of these masterminds because Chris and I are psychotic about going like, where's the pulse? Like what's what's going on in the industry right now? Yeah, no, those masterminds are insane in the best way. Like so you get to be a fly on the wall in them. Well, you're not a fly on the wall in there. You're helping people. You're in there. You're listening. You're doing all the things. I mean, I walk away smarter after every single one, but it's fun to watch everybody interact with each other and with the speakers that you bring in and you and Chris for exactly what you said. And I think that you have so many different types of businesses in there. Yeah. That the knowledge isn't like, it's crazy. The knowledge is next level. I will, I will say it's so fun for me because I'm always like, Kaylee, what was your takeaway or what did you learn? It's like, I can't believe like even as the person who gets to run it, how much I get to learn because it is like 35 people with so much wisdom who are just, and you know how Chris and I run it. Like would you say that we are some of the most like pull back the curtain 100% like if we sucked at something like, oh dinner series, let me tell you why that wasn't a good idea. Like we're so open about it. Like let me tell you why you should not do an event like this because here's where we lost money or here's where it wasn't great. Like we're not going to go be like, yeah, everything we do is shiny and everything is great. Like we're going to tell you this field. This is great. Here's where this is going. Here's where we're getting money from right now. Yeah. Like we want people to win because that is why people will continue coming back. And so, you know, I was just thinking about one of our last speakers at Elite Entrepreneur Mastermind. I remember like Pedro spoke and I was just like, what did you like, what did you think after he spoke? Just give me the general feel like even how you felt after he spoke. It's not even what did you learn? It's like, how did you feel when you're in a room like that? Okay, well, I've heard him speak on your podcast and also in that room. And I just love him both times. Every time you feel inspired and energized. I feel like everyone in that room was so energized after he spoke. And they're just like, I think I'm overthinking things. I need to just go and act and start doing these things. You know, I don't know. He's brilliant and he has all this knowledge in the world. But I also think he just brings a very real honest, so honest. There's something about that environment though. I know. Because in the podcast, he was insanely amazing, but there's something about I know when you get a founder or like an entrepreneur at that level in a room of entrepreneurs who are like, let's go, tell me the truth. I know. It was so raw and so real that I just I felt like I could run through a wall afterward and that all that happens in this room is because I think it's the environment that you set up to just go, no, this these people paid a lot. Let's give it to them straight. Like they don't want the fluff. They want the real like, and let me tell you, it got real in there. It's not a real realist, but everybody came out exactly like you said, like I'm just fucking overthinking it. They talked about him for the rest of the day. Yeah. Yeah. And it's that is like what you need to be and you need to be in rooms where it's where are those people going to be real with you? I know. Well, I think you and Chris do that really well in in both the master minds, but also just in the everyday life of like, and I've told you that before, but I think you and Chris are two of like the most real people I've ever met. Like what you get online is what you get in real life. And I don't think that that's like the norm these days. I think it's my favorite trait about both of you. Thank you so much for that. And you create spaces that feel very safe. So I think in that mastermind group, everyone feels safe. They feel like they can be really real with each other. The speakers can be real. Like they walk in, you know, 10 minutes before they're going to speak and they feel safe to share and be real in that moment with everybody that's in there. I don't know. I think it just allows for more vulnerability. And I think that that's where like all of the best growth comes from. I love that you mentioned that because that is where I mean, that comes from my personal experience of like, I can't walk into a room and pretend I'm somebody and think I'm going to grow. Yeah, because when I'm going into a mastermind and I'm like, Oh my God, I need to impress people. Oh, I need to say like my business is doing X amount. Oh my gosh. Yeah, this is crushing it over here. What did I leave with? I know when I went in there because no, this is like broken. Like this stopped working. Like I made this much last year. I'm down in sales like people it's counterintuitive. And so I think what Chris and I have learned is how do we open up a room that that stays really positive? Totally solution based yet, but is so open to like where are you really at? Yeah, do not come in here thinking you have to impress people. Yeah, you got to say where you're at so we can go, Oh, I have someone for that. Oh, you should work with this person. Oh, you need to get on a call with this person. This is how this this is how this works. And this is why this is why growth is so hard is because especially online, you need to put up this face like you're successful. So people want to work with you. Yeah. But then where do you get the help from? I know. Well, I think that the best part too is like, there's a lot of people in these rooms, but they feel small. Yeah, in the best way. And I think you can be intimidated when you walk into rooms like that and not want to raise your hand and not want to say where you're at. Honestly, yeah, for sure. I mean, I feel that I still feel that sure. But I think that after the first hour in there, people don't care anymore. Like people will ask a question and you can tell that they maybe think like, I don't know if this feels like a dumb question or not. Yeah. But then you've got 10 of the people who are ready to give you their advice and their perspective and their solution. And then that person literally is like, so glad I asked that question. Yeah, like I feel so much more clear and so much better about where I'm going. What's so cool about that for anybody who's curating rooms or masterminds, and you're like, how do you do that? It really starts with you. Like Chris and I have to go up there and we have to share something vulnerably. And we have to be like, we actually don't want to see the shiny like we are, we already know you're great. That's why you're in this room. Now here's where the work starts happening. And so I think if you're curating a room, it's really like you got to just start with vulnerability. But there's a really fine line. This is interesting too. There's a fine line with working to facilitate vulnerability without it going into like a full cry fest all the time. Totally. It's like, you need to facilitate like where are you at? Okay, I got it. Yeah, you know where you're at. Now let's talk about solutions. You know, and I think it's being able to kind of cut people off when they're going down the spiral. Yeah. So if you're a facilitator, like recognizing when you've got the gist of it, when the room has the gist of it, and now we're going to work on solving. I can't even remember what you and Chris do. I should know this, but I feel like you guys set up kind of an expectation when someone starts to ask a question. And I think that that helps too. Yeah. So we what we do is we go, you know, I'm going to have you ask your question directly. Yeah, back story will ask you. And sometimes people start in the back story. And that's when it can start to get really like vulnerable, obviously. And it's like, okay, we have enough. Like I feel you, I see you. Yeah. Like a lot of that from the facilitator of I feel you, I see you, I have, I have been there. And then a lot of times I'll say, who else fully understands where her emotion is coming from right now or where his emotion is coming from. And you look around the room and you're like, Oh, the whole room has been here. So all of a sudden your nervous system calms down. And now we can get in into the answer. So I think there's so much like facilitation that goes on, but it's it's not as hard as people think it's really just like, what does this person need right now? Yeah. Okay, so kind of with curating rooms, we've been to a lot of networking events lately, especially lately, yeah, together separately. But what do you think are some of the do's and don'ts as you're kind of creating these rooms or going into those rooms? Okay, this is so fun because you put on you used to put on events, like you were like college campus event girl, students, parents, like that's something that I love knowing about you. And I see that in you, like how good you are in different rooms. You can really morph into multiple different people, which is why you will always be successful. You can think yeah, you're you're so amazing with that. Do's and don'ts of different room depends on the room. But I do think a lot of people put on, depends what we're talking about you and I have been an influencer events. We've been to like girls who want to get girls together and they're like, no, we just really want to like have a lunch. Yeah. And like share vulnerably and support each other. And sometimes we go and they're awesome. But yeah, we're sharing or supporting. Right. We are eating and drinking in the corner, why are you so glad you and I are having cocktails together alone in the corner again. And like, yes, we're like mingling and a lot of that is up to us. But I think that a lot of women want to get women together. Yeah, that's what I'm feeling like they want to be doing these dinners and they want to be facilitating. So I would say you do need to learn to facilitate. Yeah. And facilitating feels opposite of like, it sounds super fun before you do it. Yeah. Once you get in the room, there's a lot of resistance. 100%. I mean, facilitating takes another level of going, I can tell they don't like this. I can tell they don't want to do this at first and we're going to do it anyway. Yeah. And so I think that if you want to put on a dinner or an event, I think first, the first expectation of setting up a great event is the invite. Listen, we are laughing in. We are laughing because we have gotten invites where I go, what the fuck is this? We don't know what are we going to do there? Is there going to be food there? Can't tell you what do I wear? Not sure. Is there where I mean, like it's almost like location is even undisclosed. I'm sure until you say yes. And I'm like, but what am I saying yes to? Is this macro may is this networking? We don't know is this we have no idea. I just tell you the title literally and that's about it. It's like and maybe the date and lunch and friends. What is what does that mean and why is that important? Yeah. So I think that, you know, the the topic, the intention, what's the flow, what to wear, how long will this be? Is there for sure like cut off? Who will you be meeting? What type of people are going to be there? Like let people know why it's worth visibility. Oh my gosh, give me visibility so that I can make a better decision and so from the invitation on a lot of our invitations, well, on all of our invitations, it'll be like, here's when it starts. Here's the true time that if you're not here, like something will be started and we can't add you to it. Right. So please don't be late. Like this is like the, like once this begins, like if it's like networking or dinner, like please do not miss miss this particular time. Right. It'll be like facilitated networking from this time to this time. Like maybe then in the paragraph, I go on to say you'll be doing, you know, like manifesting questions with each other and sharing within a group or it's like really letting them know what you're going to do. So when you go into the facilitation at the event, it's not a surprise. They're not weirded out. They're not like, okay, what kind of weird party did I get invited to? We know what we came for and I will tell you what, like what do people say after the events that we've done? No, they say, I'm so glad I knew what I was walking into. I feel like I just met so many amazing people and like, this is so refreshing. I hear that all the time. Yeah. So amazing. Like I actually met people and I actually got like what I was hoping to get out of this. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, let people know what to expect and then they can show up to it. The most prepared best. Totally. Of themselves. And you guys, this can be so, so basic. You don't even have to have dinner. You could be like for two hours on a Saturday, I'm going to provide some wine and mocktails. Yeah. Guys go to Costco and get some like cute little appetizers, frozen appetizers. Yeah. Like literally two or three boxes, invite four to 10 people over and be like, Hey, this is a facilitated like get together where we start doing this and we support each other on this. We're going to ask each other three questions each. Here's how it's going to go. Here's how long it's going to go. Here's where a lot of people go wrong. They don't like actually stick to their end time. So then like they people feel weird when they're leaving. It's like, then you don't want to have another one because someone stayed too long. It's kind of like have a wrap up and be like, thank you guys so much for coming. You know, whether you have an out or whatever that looks like, you don't have to send people home, but you can just be like, Hey guys, I know a lot of you. You know, it was from four to six. I know a lot of you have places you want to be. So I just wanted to say like, thank you guys so much for coming. I appreciate you. We're going to try to host another one in the next couple of weeks, like bring a friend, whatever that looks like. You really need to give people an out because their exit, those introvert people aren't going to feel like they can just up and leave and they need to feel like they can. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. So start with the invite. I would say from your perspective, walking into places, let's just say, what would you say is a really good thing to do when we're thinking about even one that we recently went to? Maybe there's some like different activations or some different things to do. How would you make sure that people know what's there, like know what to do with the flow? Is there different things that you would do? Like from your perspective coming in as an attendee, what would feel really good to you? I feel like having a general outline of the event, of the evening, whatever it might be. Like you said, it's like if it's going to be a curated experience from like start to finish, have that in there. Yeah. With what time? With a timeline and like stay as close to it as you kind of can. And if it is something that's more casual and there isn't much facilitation there, then maybe you say that also. Yeah. I feel like we walked into an event recently. It was amazing, but also we were just kind of like, what do we do? Do we get a drink right now? Is there food? Is there a start time? Are they going to, we were doing an activity, but it was like, are we supposed to just start the activity or are they going to speak before the activity? Like, I don't know. And I think, I guess it depends on different personalities, right? Because you go into those events and sometimes people just dive right in. I don't think it depends on the personality. I think everybody wants to know. And I think some people are just going to be like, well, I think there's people who are just like, well, whatever, I'm just going to do what I want. Because no one's telling me what to do. There's those people. And then there's the other personality where they're like, I'm just going to wait and see, but both of them are both feel awkward. Yeah, totally. So I think you're right with that. There's all personalities need a little bit more clarity. Yes. I think if you're going to do one, like have one person there at the door who's like, Hey, start here. Yeah. It's like when you come into a program, yeah, start here, then here, then here. And I also think having somebody who is like, if you're the host, guess what you also are? You are the connector. So if you're the host, you are hosting. Hey, Kaylee, come over here. Oh my gosh, Lisa just got here. You guys have to meet. Let me tell you about her. Yep. And then all of a sudden someone else walks in. Yeah. Hey, come over here and do this. So you and I did that. We're like, what's your name? What's going on? Because we don't know anyone and we're going to meet you immediately. Right. Like I've never felt like I talked so much in my life because no one else was talking. I really clung to you for that one. I was like, I'm going to let you take a These are you guys, these are amazing events. It was so great. Like the thing is, would I go to other ones like it? I'm not sure because I, I  I want to have more facilitation. I want to know what's going on. I want more people to be forced to conversate, because if women are not forced to conversate, they're uncomfortable. Majority of them will just go in their little group, or people they know, or we watched people be very introverted and leave right away. Like, you're going to lose people. Especially if you know the group of people you invited, don't know each other. I think it's different if you host a dinner of 10 people who all know each other already. Sure, I think there's a little room for some variance there. But if you're intentionally creating an environment where you're inviting people from different areas, you should probably host. Yes, totally. And the thing is, most people don't know that. They don't know it. They're just like, OK, if I bring people here, this should work. And sometimes it does. But then other times, it's like, I find that that works when, OK, you have somebody with a big name there, or it's kind of an it girl thing. That'll keep bringing people back for the lure. But if you don't have those factors yet, I didn't have those factors in the beginning. So I had to do a really good event where they're like, I can't miss one, because I got so much value and friendship out of it, and so many questions answered. So for anybody who wants to host really creating facilitated questions and moments and forcing people to do it, and trust me, when I will do it at my dinners at the house, it's uncomfortable. I'm like, oh, god, they're already having fun. They're in a group. I know. No, because not everyone is having fun. You're right. It's a perception. Yeah, it's a perception. Yeah, they might be talking, but they're trying to get out of an uncomfortable conversation, or they want to go meet someone else, or they want to do an activity together. So it's like, no, facilitate that group. Keep stepping in. Keep them busy. Keep making them ask each other questions. Keep giving them questions to help them get to the answers that they want. So I believe that you just need to take on a next level role of facilitation, and it will change your game this year in your business or whatever you want to create. Yeah, yeah. And I think you do that really well at your dinners. I think you do that really well at any events you throw, and also you guys do it in the mastermind, too. That's all we do in the mastermind. Like, we spend weeks and weeks on how do we make sure from the start, from the second they walk in, they're meeting people. The team is greeting them. They're immediately in front of the room saying who they are, and we're making them comfortable with that. I know they're so intentional. They're shitless to do it, but it's every single activity is intentional so that they can't hide. Yeah. Well, when you do that at your dinner, right? Everyone, usually, when Laurie hosts these dinners, will stand up and share about themselves or business, whatever. Whatever the questions are, every person gets the chance to stand up and do that at the dinner, and you go around the whole table. And every time people walk away, and they're like, that was awesome, because I was sitting at the complete other end of the table. I didn't get to talk to that person, but now I just connected with them, and they have my number, because they are doing X, Y, and Z, and I actually am looking to do whatever it is. It feels like one table, and not six different conversations. Exactly. And I think you do it in the mastermind too. It's like the groups are always intentionally. We will change the name tags intentionally, so you're always sitting by somebody different. Like, all the groups are always different. All of it's intentional. All of it's intentional, and it's a game changer. So that's what you guys want to know. I mean, I learned this from my mentors. I learned this from Jack Canfield. I learned this from network marketing. I learned this from people who are trainers on facilitating rooms, who are like, you want the most out of the room? This is what we're going to do. So yeah, I am obsessed with the masterminds. If you guys are looking for a mastermind this year, we do have the mentor collective mastermind, which, like I said, is like 25K to 500K. We want you to have a start of a business in order to go in there. So that we can actually, like I said, like turn those dials, and you have the foundation, and we can say, OK, well, we can see where you're doing just a few things wrong, we could really make a big shift in your business. So 25K to 500K is mentor collective mastermind. That one's really cool, because it's literally like borrowing all of our advisors. So if you have a small team, it's like getting a team. You have marketing. You have an AI coach. You have a team and leadership coach. If you're like, oh my gosh, how do I hire this person? How do I fire this person? Like how do I get my team motivated? How do I train this person in leadership? We have essentially like, that's also like HR, which is so awesome. We have funnels. We have social media. We have podcasting. We have, we have legal, which is nuts. We have, I mean, it goes on and on. Like literally you have access to our team. So this is really for those businesses who if you have a small team right now, you really get to borrow a team of advisors who says this is what you should do here. Oh, you don't know how to, you don't have that yet. Why don't you have a many chat flow set up? Okay, let me take a look at this, you know, your email funnel. Let me look at all of these different things. So, and that one is answers on demand. So you get answers within 24 to 48 hours from the coaches and it's unlimited questions. Like where can you get unlimited questions? You literally cannot. Seriously. And these people are brilliant. Brilliant. Oh, you get a sales coach. Like who's amazing, who I learned from all the time. Like I learned so much in this group. And Chris and I are coaching in there every other week for two hours and we have never not gotten to a question live, like gotten to talk to you live on there. And then we also have the coaches who teach on the other two weeks. So every single week you're getting a new training, a new coaching, questions being answered. There's also so many different videos in there like video training modules already. That's like a library of things that we direct you towards depending on what your business needs. So that one is freaking awesome. And then we have elite entrepreneur mastermind which you get to be in that room and it's insane. That one is two incredible in person events, three and a half days where you are with people, seven and eight figure businesses, like next level conversations, next level people, it will blow your mind. That's like the room where your next million dollar, like injection into your businesses is waiting for you. Like you can't even imagine what's happening in this room and the results that go on in this room. So if you are ready to really impact your business, that one is like, that one's huge, 500K and above. That one is an application process only because we wanna make sure that the room is the strategy. So we have to curate it and make sure that your business fits in there, that we can actually help you in your business because we're not gonna take you if we can't help you in your business. And that interview is as much for you as it is for us. So to interview us and see, have we had people in there like you before? What have we been able to do for them? Can we give you referrals of people to know that this is gonna be something that's gonna be impactful for your business? So you guys, for either of these, you can literally just click the links below for mentor collective or for the elite entrepreneur mastermind or you can DM us. Like if you have questions on either of these because the elite is a sales call and then mentor collective, also you're just gonna want to go and fill out for the wait list. You can go check that out. So how do you feel on your first podcast? I feel good. How was it? It was fun. Yeah, it's so fun. Well, we could talk for hours in general. It's like, you gotta get the conversation flowing. Gotta get the conversation flowing and I gotta stay real dead. Cause I could go. That's the problem is you and I, you and I might go fishing a lot. Yeah. Love to fish. All right. Well, you are no longer a podcasting virgin. Was this your very first podcast ever? Yeah. Oh my God. I know. Well, out the window there it went. Bye. Bye. All right, you guys, I hope that you love this. Let us know, shoot me a DM if you want us to talk on any particular subject or BTS of what it looks like building Glossy or questions for you, Kaylee, being brand coordinator and working in all the different brands with that looks like we'd love, love, love to answer them. So let us know what you thought of our first episode. If you liked it, if you didn't like it, don't let us know. Yeah, don't let us know. Don't let us know. But if you also have ideas on other reality shows we could start, you can let us know that. That's great. That's also something that'd be valuable for us. I think we could get that. All the other stuff. We get plenty of feedback. I don't know if we need more. I only need good feedback. It's all we need. Yeah. We tell everyone, you know, all feedback is good, but for us, we just want the good feedback. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. All right, everyone, we will see you on the next episode of BTS. Bye-bye.

=== FILE: The Viral Visibility Plan That Took Hayley Segar From $0 to a Shark Tank Deal [AXXE3cHxEkI].txt ===

 by the time I launched, I had used all of my savings, I had maxed out all of my credit cards, I had no money to my name, so I was broke, so I couldn't pay for ads even if I wanted to. Making six TikToks a day was a necessity. When you started this, it caught some viral attention, but I love your story because I think so many people do not realize what it actually takes for something to catch on. I'm so excited to chat with you because, number one, I love products, I love clothes, I love swimwear, I love spirituality, I love manifesting, and I love shark tank. You're the common denominator between all of those things that I just mentioned. So I'm excited to have you on and chat about your story and how you're going to get to know each other and how you're going to get to know each other. So I'm excited to have you on and chat about your story and chat about your brand because you do have a really unique brand, and it came out of a problem that you were solving. So let's start there, then I'll kind of back up to what was happening before that. Yeah, so to introduce myself, I'm Haley, I'm the founder of OneWidth, and that unique product that you're mentioning is swimsuits that fit like underwear. So in April of 2019, I was trying on a bunch of different swimsuits for an upcoming trip, and I literally said out loud, out of frustration, I just want a swimsuit that fits like no-show underwear does. Like if you know, you know, no-show underwear does not dig into your body, it just lays fought on top of your body like a second skin, so it can really create this like dissonance of being in no-show underwear, looking in the mirror, hopping on a swimsuit and being like, what just happened? Like something happened, and it's so similar, but so different. So my product, OneWidth, bridges that gap. So we took what makes no-show undies so flattering and made it swimmable. So, and the name comes from me saying out loud, I wanted to feel one with my body. So that was the genesis moment. Okay, so let's go back directly to that moment. Was it like, oh my gosh, this is gonna be great. I'm gonna create this. Like I know exactly what I'm gonna do, or what were you doing before that? Was this like totally out of your element? Yeah, it's funny because OneWidth plays on so much of the little pieces of my background, but to answer your question, Lorie, of like did I know this was gonna be great? I did. I'd be lying to you if I was trying to be humble, and I was like, I know that this will hit. I do. Otherwise I wouldn't have done it. Like I believed in it so wholeheartedly from that moment in 2019, like through now, obviously, and I just felt it like so strongly in my bones. But before that, I was on YouTube, so I had a content creation background, and I worked in Bridal, so I had like a little bit of like a fashion-spotting intimate background too. So it was kind of like a blend of little bits of experience in my life. So you have like really, you really understand like the problems that women struggle with when we are either in a dressing room, like you said it in Bridal or whether it was swimwear. I mean, and you are a woman, and this was your exact problem. I feel like whenever we are looking for businesses to start, there is nothing like being able to speak to the exact core of the problem. And you're probably like, if I'm dealing with this, and this is driving me crazy, there's no way it's not making other women crazy. And let me tell you like swimwear is a thing. I don't care how great your body is, you can still feel self-conscious in it, and you're like, why does this not like fit the way I want it to fit, or why don't I feel the way that I wanna feel in this? So I love that you were solving like solving your own problem and solving so many other women's problems. So I wanna go back to the, so funny, like while it's 11-11, and I'm about to ask a manifesting question, literally right. I love it. When you felt it, was it because you just like, you knew it was solving a big problem for people? Like what was that feeling in your body of like, this is going to work? Like really explain that, and how did you really anchor that in? Totally. So I'd like to think that I planted this seed for myself when I was like a five years old, because from the time I was five years old, maybe a little earlier, let's just say five, I've felt in my bones that I would one day have a company slash brand, like specifically a brand like around a product. And I knew again, from the time I was little, that I would know when the moment happened, when I would think of that idea. Like I would know when I thought of the idea, I would know that it was the idea. In that moment, I knew it was the idea, like period end of story. So I think maybe if I hadn't had that almost like innate belief that I was born with for whatever reason, I might have questioned myself a bit more. And I think what I did was I set an intention for myself, back at the year 1999 or two, whatever it was, and I had to wait until 2019 for it to literally manifest into that light bulb moment, but I did, I knew it was the idea. And again, it was so arresting Lori, like it literally like made me freeze in my tracks when I said it out loud. And I'll just never forget that moment. I hope everyone in their life has a moment like that because it just felt so, it overtook my body and my mind. And I literally have not stopped thinking about it from that day in 2019. Okay, so you had set the intention for yourself years and years and years prior, had anything in between that come close where you were like, hmm, is this it? Yeah, like little like seedlings of like, okay, I'm gonna text my sister about this idea. And if she thinks it's good, maybe I pursued this one. But I also kind of knew like, no, it's not it. I distinctly remember driving and being like, haven't thought of the idea yet, I know I will, I'm not gonna pressure myself into it. But yeah, I had little like tiny ones, but I would let go of them in two days. Like it never lasted in my body longer than that. One with, I physically like couldn't shake it. I could not shake it. When you started this, like it caught some viral attention, but I love your story because you were very persistent and consistent. So I wanna talk about that, just how you kind of started creating content and what that looked like when you first started marketing. I think so many people do not realize what it actually takes for something to catch on. So can you share that story? Yeah, so my background is content, right? So I did have that as a competitive advantage. I know a lot of people when they think of an idea, one of their stopping like friction points is, I don't wanna be on camera, I'm stuck at social media, I won't be able to market this. So to that I say either like make it your mission to learn and convince yourself to like it until you can hire someone or hire someone, right? Like that's what I would say. But I really started making videos, like TikTok videos out of necessity. I had always told myself, again, before I knew what the idea was, I knew that like when it did come to be, I could just make Facebook ads and that's how I would sell my product, right? But by the time I launched, I had used all of my savings and maxed out all of my credit cards. I had no money to my name, so I was broke. So I could have paid for ads even if I wanted to. So making six TikToks a day was a necessity and it paid off, it paid dividends, but yeah, I just was like this has to happen. And so the marketing virality moment really came from just to your point, consistency, like literally not letting it go every day, posting a ton of TikToks and literally hoping and feeling that one of them would pop off and that's what happened. So if somebody was starting a brand right now, what would you tell them? Whether it was clothing, whether it was supplements, I mean, skincare, beauty, whatever, what would you say like if they did not have the marketing dollars, what's the first plan for them? I would say definitely focus on organic content. And again, a lot of people like if you can't hire out right away, tell yourself six months, six months, I'm gonna really not enjoy this. This is gonna be really hard. This is not natural to me, but I am going to spend, from the time I get home at six o'clock at night to nine PM watching videos about editing and in-shot and cap cut and looking at trending audios and scrolling through my 4U page and really understanding what's going on and how brands are doing it and knowing like the goal is to offload this, right? The goal is to offload this because I think now in 2025, you can't have a product without content. Someone has to make that content and again, it might have to be you for a time, for a time. And it also helps even if you do offload it to someone ultimately, you need to know how to give that directive and have a semblance of what's going on. So you literally can't lose in teaching yourself the basics of how to market on social period. Yeah, honestly, I have a brand as well. So it's a beauty supplement and truly like my, like I am just starting to really ramp up content but that's the best advice on earth because you're always either having to pay for marketing, borrow someone else's audience or figure it out yourself and figure it out yourself. Yes, it's like one of the hardest things you'll ever do. Like truly I am in it, like the resistance is so high and I'm even a content girl, I haven't been for years. Yes, but the level that it is going to take, like this is so, like you know how things happen at the perfect time and like this is the perfect conversation for me. So I hope it's hitting everybody because I think the awareness of like your, you know, three to six posts a day, like if we feel it in our bones that this brand is going to come out into the world then yeah, it's gonna feel like we're birthing something daily. Like pushing it out of our bodies. Yes, it's true. And again, like to your point, like the resistance and we are both content girlies and we still have that. Like, I still have it, you know? And I also think Lori too, like in terms of advice for people listening, if you are listening to this and hearing me say, like you have to make content, you have to do the three to six posts a day, whatever it is and you're like, I don't know if I can do that. I'm really almost questioned, like are you passionate enough about the idea? Because if someone came in here right now and said, you have to learn how to code the back end of your website for one with to say a float, I'd be at the library. You have to make sure that you pass all these tests because your business will test you as you know, like left and right. And you have to like literally give yourself a litmus test. Will I do this for this thing that I supposedly love so much and that I'm so passionate about? And if the answer is yes, that's your answer. Yeah. And honestly, someone else is going to be doing it in your category, like, and they're going to surpass you. And I'm not saying that that is, it's not, I don't even put myself in the race, like I have to beat these people, but the awareness of people are going to beat you to the forefront of that message. And speed is important, especially with something like what you were doing, like really creating something that was breakthrough in the category that doesn't cut into your body. And it's important for what I'm doing too, while this category is just really starting out, is to be the person when they think of this new thing, that you're the name that they think of, rather than someone else, you know, as becoming that habit or that go-to brand. Exactly. Yeah. I mean, I can't tell you Lori, like how scared I was to be on social media before I had launched one with, because I was so afraid I was going to open up my phone and see someone did this before I did. That was like my biggest fear. When I saw Skims was, well, it wasn't called Skims at the time, if anybody remembers that, it was first called Kimono. And she- That's right, that's right. Do you remember that? I remember it only because I saw it. Yeah, literally one day. I saw it and I was so scared. I was like, what if it swimsuits up that fit like underwear, like literally. And I was just like waiting, like literally white-knuckling for them to come out with their first like line sheet or whatever, so I could see it wasn't. But yeah, I would like, don't let that be you, don't let that, you know, fear consume you of like, oh my gosh, someone has been doing this before me because I haven't actioned it yet. Cause that was me for a year and a half, you know, between thinking of the idea and launch. No, it was two and a half years. I think I said that twice today, that it was a year and a half. It was two and a half years, I think. Yeah, April, 2019, I launched in November of 2021. So two and a half years, I'm like scared to see anything swimsuit related on social media. How long did it take for you to go from idea, sketch on paper, knowing kind of like what you wanted to having physical product in hand? I would say from that point, probably six to not, well, are we talking like the product is here and it's ready to sell or like I get my first sample? First sample. First sample, maybe three to six months, I would say. I know. Yeah. That's pretty good, that's pretty fast. And then how long to sell? That was the tricky, that was the tricky. Tell me about it, trust me, mine went haywire. It was so crazy. So I don't know, when did you start Glossy? Well, technically it was a different company and I pivoted but I started raising money in 2020 but had to pivot, throw out the first idea, start something separate. So it was probably a year and a half from the actual idea of Glossy. Yeah. Okay. So we're in a similar timeframe though. So I started talking with factories in 2020 and people will always think like, oh, was it COVID that made it take so long? And I was like, no, it's the fact that we are so small. The factories just didn't take us seriously and would keep bumping us on the production line. So I'd wake up to emails at five in the morning being like, yeah, I remember how we said you'd get your product in July and you're not anymore, it's September. And you know what I mean? I was just like, I don't know. Yeah, like a year. I'm not kidding. Wow. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stopped thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store, choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Setup is fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in too. Create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you. Handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy. That's Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it, you guys. It feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm gonna share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bra-let connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle bra-let and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery, it's soft, it's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you, select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the dropdown menu that follows, that's earn you're happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the Skims Holiday Shop is now open at skims.com. So what made you stay patient during that? Were you working somewhere else at the same time? Like how were you funding your life? Yeah, I was still project. Yeah, I was still doing content, which was helpful, but it was not easy. It was really getting paid from brands. Yeah. Okay, okay. Yeah. So I had a YouTube channel, I don't have one anymore. I just kind of like stopped identifying. I was Haley the founder and not Haley YouTuber anymore. So just didn't feel natural, but I did for a really long time. But yeah, so I supported myself that way. I was doing gigs on the side, like literally any way that I could. I was so scrappy just funding everything. I also did get a $15,000 grant from my Alma Mater. I got accepted into one of their accelerator programs. Amazing. That was super helpful. Like anyone listening, go and look at the entrepreneurial initiatives that your Alma Mater does. Fortunately, I went to Yukon here in Connecticut and they have an amazing entrepreneurial program. Like even after you graduate, but you'd be surprised. There might be initiatives like right under your nose in terms of money you can get and support you can get. So that was wonderful. But yeah, so that was a really big help. That $15,000 chunk allowed me to hire a technical designer. So that was super, super helpful. So it was a combo of that and basically me just maxing out my credit cards. Okay, so we've talked about the super tactical actionable from the beginning of you were like, I'm just gonna go hard with the content. Like that's how this is gonna get out. Yeah. I love that you are so insanely actionable, but also, I had asked you before this, what's something that you would love to talk about? And you're like, well, I'm really spiritual. Like I'm pretty, I'm like, great. This just got so much better for me because I love that. But I wanna know what are some of the things that you have done and that you also currently do to kind of like visualize your business, move it along, think really big picture, think as big as you have. How do you keep that in the forefront? And you guys, I also want you to be remembering that she just told us she was posting like three to six times per day. So that's a big piece of it too. But tell me about what you do on the daily. Yeah, absolutely. So I mean, we'll start macro, like every year I do a vision board and it's really specific. And if I don't have pictures of exactly what I wanna manifest, I make them. Like I didn't have, for some reason, there's no visual online of a utility patent being granted, like the actual like granted mark, which I made up. So I like doctored one on Canva and put it on my mood board, you know? Got my patent granted last week after four and a half years, Lori, four and a half years. So finally, so I'll do a mood board or something like a vision board every year. I'm really into visualization. I visualize every morning. I have my red light mask on, on my acupressure mat, and I just close my eyes and I visualize an outcome for myself, it can be a big one, it can be an outcome for that day. And I'll also do like my self-talk and Esther Hicks style manifestation sort of like prompts, if you will. So the one that I love is wouldn't it be nice if, and the reason that they say that one works so well is because your body has no resistance to it. If you say like, I'm tapping the way that I do, but like if you're tapping and you say like, I'm going to get a million dollars today, like that feels so out of reach, right? Like if you say, wouldn't it be nice if I got a million dollars today? There's something that happens energetically there that I think allows it to flow freer. So I do that, like when I was prepping for Shark Tank, I would go on walks and put my earphones in and play the Shark Tank theme song and picture walking out, like things like that. And I'm also super careful with my language and what I consume. So making sure that it's really positive and lends me to the outcome that I want. So those are just kind of like daily habits, I would say that I have that, you know, help me to my goal alongside action always, obviously. Yeah. Okay, so what are you like, what are you not consuming that you think most people are that you actually think holds them back? I have a big one. Okay. True crime. Okay. Oh, girl, we're going to get on a pulpit together. I even have friends who are like really, like they're crushing it, but they're doing that. But it's also making you depressed and anxious. And you just told me that you're now walking a blessing because you're doing it. Okay, go off because I can't. Yeah. So like, I just think it's, I don't love the concept of glamorizing or consuming other people's misfortune. Like I just, I don't want to call it misfortune, that is like not even the right, it's so beyond that. And I started to feel it like in my body and it, I was like, I just don't think for whatever reason this aligns with my desired outcome. I grew up my entire family in law enforcement. So I would see these situations playing out. And it was the reality for so many people that I knew, it became really uncomfortable to consume things like that. And even like really dark music in the morning. Like I love a moody Lana Del Rey lover, but I have to make sure like the songs that I decide to play and stuff like that in the morning align with my intentions for that day in the words that I speak out loud, like, you know, what I'm singing along to songs and stuff like that, like everything. And this isn't to knock anyone that consumes this stuff. I just found for me personally in terms of like, okay, here's where I want to go. This stuff upon consumption of it started to feel really icky in my body. What I think about me getting to an end goal. Yeah, I could not agree more. I think whenever you're lowering your vibration, which I don't know anyone who's listening to like a true crime or music that's a little, I don't know, that can be super dark moody or whatever. I mean, a teenage, I grew up like, you know, my teenage guy friends were like slipknot people. And I remember he's like, this is so, this is like literally energetically messing with me so bad. And I knew that at like a really young age. And, you know, our vibration is truly what people feel. If all else you guys, if you don't believe that it's like magnetizing me for what you want, like people feel the energy that you walk in the room with. So I am so focused as well. Like when I get on a podcast, like I'm like, okay, want to make sure my energy's up, that it feels good for the other person when I'm walking, you know, into a new room with people. Because I just think people want to work with people who they feel that like very high vibe enthusiasm, like excited about life, very tuned in. Like it's magnetizing. And I'm positive that that is why people felt it with you through social media is you probably just like, well, I know how you come off. I saw a lot of your stuff. And it's very like high frequency. It's you're very excited about the brand. You're very tuned in, you're very tapped into it. It's like who you are. And so you're able to just like, you know, preach that through your body. Like you need to happen. I love this. All of that stuff that you just mentioned is like, people feel that it's so affected right down to how are you going into creating social media? Do you need a vibe check? Do you need a little prayer? Do you need a little meditation and visualization that no matter what happens with this video, you know what I mean? You should be doing this. And it's going to be great for the brand. Exactly. It's like being a founder is an eternal attitude adjustment every hour, like every hour. That's the best way to say it. Yes, it is. And it's like, like I said, it tests you in every capacity. And not only does it test you, but you also have to bounce back from that test. You know, you can't like wallow. You can't, you know, so it's, yeah, it's an attitude adjustment every day, every hour, all day, but it really does. It's very cool, I think, to look back and be like, wow, I wouldn't have been able to handle this a year ago. Isn't that the best? Yeah. It is the best moment when I'm like, holy shit, like the old me would have just crumbled. Like I'm so proud of the woman I've become through the freaking fires. Exactly. Yeah. No, and that's how I feel. Like the old me would just cease to exist. I don't even know. Like I just completely shut down. And it's just really, really rewarding, I think. And it only happens, like we only get to be this version of ourselves from the hard stuff. Yes. You know? It was not the easy stuff that, you know, created this version of me. Oh, it's not the wins. Those are just like, woo-hoo, yay. Tell me about some of the biggest challenges that you've had. There's so much. Like there really, really is. I don't know where to begin. Yeah, being broke, my credit card declining at a gas station, paying for a deep brush, like things like that, you know, amidst everything like going on and trying to build a business. Like I've had personal health setbacks, family health setbacks, like major, major problems going on behind the scenes, like with the business or, you know, nothing like, I don't want to be like too cagey, but you know, like we have a production issue happen that costs six figures, you know, like things like that. There's always stuff going on, you know, that forces me to tap into a new side of me, learn a new skill set, you know, it's hard. Like it's really, really hard. And honestly, just like the output too, that it requires of you and what that can do if you're not careful, can really debit your energy and mind, body, spirit. Tell me about that. Because there's this spot where like it's so funny, because you know, when you get so into manifestation, personal development, you can almost like personal development yourself too much. Well, what you're going to say, yeah. And it's like, this is when people are like, name a failure. And I'm like, I can't, I can't say a failure because I've learned and that's so corny, but it's like, they all get netted out in my mind. Yes. Do you know what I mean? Because you've learned from it. You're like, it's hard for me to say it was a failure because it gave me something that I needed, you know, and it turned me into a person, the person that I needed to be. And some of those for me too have been big, like six figure, like, oh my gosh, this really sucks.  abigmonitary-pings, that you have lost or something happened. And it's like, you wouldn't wish those on anyone, but I have this weird thing that I know you'll get that, like, you know, the, you would never wish the darkest moments upon your bestest of friends, but also, you know, that they need them in order to become who they see in their head. Yeah, so it's like, you can't, you can't wish them away, and I can't sit on here on this podcast and be like, oh gosh, you know, hopefully that doesn't happen to you. It's going to happen, and you actually don't need to dread it, believe it or not, because when it happens, it's like, as long as you have, like, if you hopefully have one person that you can chat with or talk to, and if not, you'll go and find that person, you'll create it, you'll reach out, and maybe that's the reason you finally end up reaching out and make an entrepreneurial friend who can support you, like, there's gonna be huge reasons for it, and you're gonna get through it, because I think it's easy to feel like things are the end of the world, and that's one conversation that I want to bring to more women is like, if you lose money, if you disappoint investors, if you, something goes terribly wrong, if you disappoint people, like, it's not the end of the world, it's actually just all how business goes, and I had some really, like, crappy stuff happen in the pivot of transitioning into the new company, and I got into such a dark place, like, I don't ever want a woman to get to that dark of a place, where I felt so alone, so isolated, and like, I'd let everybody down, I had lost money, and it was like, devastating, and so I hope these conversations, like, bring to light to people, guys, it is not the end of the world, like, you will come back from everything, you will learn from everything, don't sit in so much resistance over the fear that you never get started, or that you get stuck, or that you start making decisions from fear, because that's when your company starts to go downhill, like, worrying about other people's deaths. How do you stay in tune with yourself, your choices, stay out of all the opinions, and everything that's going on in the world? I think there was a while where I was really listening to people, and it was when my business was not doing well, it was like, you know, it was in the early days, and then kind of one day I came home from like, a pitch competition, or something like that, and I just was like, you know what? I'm not doing this anymore, like, I am not taking calls with people who have advice for me, like, I am not going to networking events, I am not doing pitch competitions, I am shutting all of this down, and seeing what happens if I go inward, hmm, and that's when my business exploded. I'm not saying that, like, I am the key to the all-knowing, I'm just saying what can happen when you put your blinders on, and, you know, create yeses from saying no to a lot, you know, is really like an unmatched experience, like, all of the unlocks in my life, I feel like have come from me waiting things out, if that makes sense. Mm-hmm, I resonate with that so hard. I've had that a couple different, you know, I've pivoted a few times in my career throughout my whole life, and I think the times where it really took off and things worked, I turned out the outside noise, like, and right down to, I used to compete in fitness competitions years ago, and it was like the first year that I decided to, like, not go kind of like do the whole thing beforehand that they do, the mingling, the like, where you get in your head, where you compare yourself to the other people there, and I was like, you know what, I'm just gonna stay in my room, and I'm gonna like send positive juju to all these people, and I'm gonna focus on what I wanna focus on, and that year, I literally set records, like, in that category, because it had, I was like, I'm staying in my own lane, I'm gonna make me energy-only beautiful energy for anyone I encounter, like, on stage or in the audience, but I am pulling it all back, because I was just noticing, you were leaking, you guys, we're just leaking our energy, we're leaking our ideas, we're giving away our power, we're feeling so insecure, like, whatever is making you feel that way, like, so unsure of yourself over and over again, you almost need to stay away from all of it, and like you said, just for a little while, not making any of those people bad, it's because you are too willing to give it away at that point, so it's like, how do we get it back? And I really do think it's like, meditating, listening, praying, sitting, what are you like, what are you excited about? Like, what, I'm in that space right now, even for like, what's my next product, and it's so easy to go, well, what's going on out there? You know what I mean? What's happening, what's trending, and I need to turn it all down, totally, yeah, and just like, really set the intention, again, like you said, next product, and be like, ask the universe to show you a sign that'll make you think of what that next idea is, but yeah, stillness, Laurie, I think is so important, like a lot of times, if I need to conceptualize a product, a rollout, how we handle a really complex situation, I will book a massage, because it makes me put my phone in another room, makes me close my eyes, and keeps me semi-awake, and obviously, but puts me in such a zen, receptive state. This is a great idea, because I really think a lot during them, but I don't know if I've set an intention for that. I think, you should, yeah, like go in and be like, I am here to think of how I'm rolling out this, and again, it's not like some people will be like, oh no, you should really use that time for it to be restorative and do nothing except, zen out, and it's like, no, I'm zen, and that's why things are coming to me so easily, and it's not like a think tanking massage session, it just things literally just flow. Same, no, yes, okay, great, thank you for this advice. We're definitely gonna do that, because I'm like, ugh, I don't feel like sitting and meditating for long periods right now at this point in my life, which is probably exactly what I need, but that would be a good way to get me into it. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement, and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built-in CRM, and reach them through email and SMS, and boost retention with powerful automations. Effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time, and that's not all. Brevo offers AI-driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today, or use Code Happy to save 50% on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy, and take your marketing further with Brevo. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about, but then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not gonna feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video. Just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your Aura Frames for that special person on your list that you really wanna feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it. For a limited time, save on the perfect gift by visiting auraframes.com to get $35 off Aura's best-selling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wirecutter by using promo code urn at checkout. That's A-U-R-A-Frames.com promo code urn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about, from what customers see to what they don't see like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1,500 corporate guides. Real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award-winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between, choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast you guys and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees and there's zero pressure. From blackout and motorized options to classic shutters, blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget. Even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout, limited time offer, rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. Okay, I want to touch on Shark Take a little bit, not because I feel like a million people are gonna try to go on Shark Tank who are listening to this, but because Shark Tank just represents like a very, very large moment for your brand. It represents a, I have to get my shit together. I need to make sure I'm on point. I need to really like be the representative of this and hold my own around people who are gonna push back. So tell me what the journey of that looked like from just like, how did you get on? And then how did you prep? Yeah, so I always told myself I was not the type of person that should go on Shark Tank. Like I really, I just thought that I would go in there and no pun intended, like I'd become Shark bait. Like I really would. Like I just, I really think like, I just saw them like seeing me walking down into the tank and then being like, oh no. You know what I mean? Like that's literally what I had in my head. I'm just like, there's no way that this will go over well. You know, I just, I saw that and I would see, I think I was especially really hypersensitive when I would watch the show and see like solo female entrepreneurs in the tank and like how that could go. And I just was so scared. Like I was so scared. So I told myself like, Haley, you should not do that show. Like people would say, I'm nervous thinking about it. Like you have to let me like, I'm nervous. Okay, keep going. Okay. I still get nervous, Laura. I was on the show and I don't know it. Like I, I still get nervous. I do. It's got, I filmed almost a year ago. Like I still get anxious about it. And yeah, so I told myself that for a long time. And then, you know, people would always say to me, like, you know, you should go on Shark Tank. My grandpa used to say to me before I even had a business idea. He used to say, you should be on that show, which was like the so sweet. And I didn't understand it at the time, but, so fast forward. Eventually, like I was on a founders club call. I'm a part of this club called the founders club. And there was a call that they did with all of the people in the club that had been on either Dragonstone, which is the Canadian version of Shark Tank or Shark Tank, what I'll call Shark Tank proper US, even though we could be stolen, I think, from Canada. But, but yeah, and I listened to all these people talk about their experience. And I asked that question of like, I think I'm just going to go in there and be Shark Bay. And his name is Kalei, Kalei or Kalei. I'm going to put your, from Shredskins was saying, like you just have to go in and do you, like literally just be so authentically yourself, which I know is like very trite advice. But I, for a while was like, when I go in there, I'm going to have to just like manufacture what they want to see. You know, and that was the first time I was like, maybe I could just like be me and go into the tank. So I applied right then and there after watching this call. And about a month later, I got a call back from casting. And you, you apply thinking you're never going to hear anything again. You know, like you just throw it out into the ether. And it's a very simple application. It's all the paperwork that comes after. That's very intense, but, you know, it took me 30 seconds to apply and they reached out to me. And then basically from that moment on, I was in touch with casting and production. And it gets really intense and you're on weekly calls with them. If you advance, obviously, and they tell you at every single stage, you can get caught at any time, anytime. You can make it to LA and get caught. So it is, yeah, it's so high stakes, so high pressure, so anxiety inducing the entire time. But I had to do so much work on myself to change that narrative, Lori, of like me telling myself I shouldn't be on that show because I'm like a liability. It shouldn't be in the tank, you know what I mean? To believing that I'm the perfect person to be on the show. Like I had to do so much tapping, rewiring, telling myself a new story. And, you know, ultimately it worked out really, really well. But I believe that had I not done all that work and just gone in with my old mindset, yeah, it would be a totally different outcome. So it worked out really, really well. Like we're going to talk about that in a second. But for anyone listening is like, OK, she rewired, she, you know, did the things. I know you're removed from it a little now because you haven't done it in a while. But if you could take us back to like what what were the things you were saying during the tapping session, like what was the old story? And then what were you rewiring with? Yeah, so I first. OK, another really good tip with this is and I got this from your manifesting bestie podcast, but she talks about choosing like your favorite song, like something that is already committed in your mind and changing the words to it to being like your manifestation. Wow, I'll give you an exact. This is so corny. Oh, this stuff that works. It works like so after I film Shark Tank and I'm getting back to the whole like changing my story, but I just feel like with your audience, I want to give the tips that I feel like really helped me. But after I film Shark Tank, you don't know if it's going to air. You can go through the whole process. You can get a deal and have it potentially not air. So yeah, I used to sing to myself like I'm going to love how it feels when Shark Tank airs to the tune of No Air by Jordan Sparks. OK, we love this every day. Just every day, Lori was singing that version of No Air that I made myself. I like refused to sing it out like it's done. I put it in a box. It's gone. But that really works so well. There are ones I had to. But like that's an easy one. But yeah, I was literally like tapping, saying I am exactly the type of person that should be on the show. My entire life has prepared me to be on this show. They are going to love me in the tank. There is no other outcome other than me getting a deal. Like I remember my mom and I got to JFK to fly out to LA to film. And my mom goes, well, what happens if you don't get a deal? And I was like, well, that's not going to happen. And I get that in my bubble, mom. Yeah, yeah. But it was like, I'll say that, you know, like, F baby. I was so I was so intentional and so careful with my words and my thoughts about myself. And it doesn't mean that I wouldn't like picture me bombing. I was so scared of that. But I also just like prepped so much spiritually, emotionally, mentally, in addition with like physically, you know, listening to myself on tape doing my pitch a thousand times, like I compared those two sort of like modalities of physical practice of this undying like face that I could create this amazing experience for myself. I'm kind of getting teary because I'm thinking about that version of you. And then I watched the episode and I know what happened. And we'll talk about that. But I'm like, holy shit, like what you you're bringing me back to those moments in my life when you're so in it that it is success is inevitable in your mind because you've wired it that way. And when it actually happens, it like when you have a moment outside of that, like it brings you to your knees to see that come together exactly as it should. So so about like the moment, you know, you you you're you're finding out what's happening. Tell me who the sharks are and how you feel on the other side. Yeah, so I had found out that Jamie Koon Lima was going to be on my guest shark panel. They told me from the jump that I was likely going to have a guest shark because of when they knew I was filming. But I found a guest shark of all time. Yes. I literally the second I found out who it was, I was like. Again, and with my whole manifestation thing, I'm like, everything is working in my favor. Like Jamie would be so perfect. I wrote it down in my phone. I will get a deal with Jamie Koon Lima, like literally wrote it down and it happened. So yeah, but again, like the second I heard it, I was like, Shark Tank is conspiring for me. Like, you know what I mean? Like everything is going exactly as it should. And yeah, so I found out Jamie was going to be the guest shark. And I knew Barbara was going to be on the panel. Mark Kevan was going to be on the panel. Lori Grineer. And why am I forgetting? Oh, of course, Mr. Wonderful. And yeah, so I was like, OK, like I feel really good about this. I feel really, really good. And I walked in and first of all, let me just say all of this crap work and stuff like that did not make me immune to being the most nervous I've ever been ever. I was shaking like I physically couldn't eat. I was doing deep breathing like exercises every two seconds. The camera guy saw how nervous I was like and were like saying really nice things to me and helping me breathe. Like it was I was so nervous. And then the second the doors opened and I just like walked out because they count you in. Obviously, I just like. It's like it's showtime. I'm just literally leaving all of this like behind me. And I did my thing in the tank and walked out with a deal with Barbara and Jamie. And like, I mean, it played out on the show, but I thought I was going to faint. And I believe it. And I really just was like this was everything. This was every best possible scenario playing out. Wow. In real time. Wow. Were you out of body while it was happening? Or were you just like, oh, my God. This is insane. Or did you were you like fully expectant of that? I was not fully like I can't say expectant of it, but I was like, hope. Like I just told myself like it's going to play out exactly as it's meant to. But again, prepping my mind with like the best possible outcome. You know what I mean? I always say like when I look at pictures of me in the tank or, you know, like me and Barbara at her retreat that happened back in April, like I'm just like, I so wish I could go back in time and show that picture to myself like before I was about to walk out. But of course, like I needed those nerves to be able to like perform the way that I did. But yeah, it's like this weird like being so in your body, but so out of body and so hoping that outcome to happen. But also like, you know, the fear so deep within me that it wouldn't, you know, it's like all this insane combo of things happening at one time. Did it change your business? How do you feel about it as a whole? I think for so long, I. Struggled like in conversation when I was, you know, telling people what I did or whatever, or like in a room with other E-com founders, like I struggled to. Be able to put words to like know what I'm doing is really legit. Like it's really cool. I promise, you know, like that sort of a thing. And the second obvious I could start saying like we were just on Shark Tank or, you know, like we got a deal on Shark Tank, like it made me feel this sense of accomplishment. And in saying those like few words, it's like people knew that I was cooking up something good, you know. So I think that's actually been the most gratifying piece of it is like a internal like nod to myself and acknowledgement to myself of like and externally as well. Like this is this is a seal of approval or, you know, a piece of social proof for my business. That means so much. But yeah, it absolutely has changed my business and it's changed me as a founder and a person and it's just incredible. Like I really can't, you know, people ask me what the experience was like. I say everything you think it is. Like it's so high pressure. It's so high stakes. It's scary, but it's also amazing. And it's like the epitome of the American dream. It really is. And I'm just so fortunate, so grateful. I don't want to say fortunate. I want to say like grateful to have been on that show. Wow. I literally can't imagine. I feel like I'm like, what's the closest thing to that outside of like competing? But I did a Ted talk. I feel like that was in. Yeah, but not. But I didn't have those people sitting in my front row. So what's head talk? Wait, so question about Ted talks. Yeah. Do you have to memorize? Yes, everywhere. You do. You really need to, because you have to be concise, like down to the minute. How did you memorize it? OK, so this is great. I did not think I'd be able to memorize anything like that. At first, that was like my deepest fear. Like I didn't graduate high school. I was like, oh my God, I'll never be able to do this. Like that was just a fear, right? Like I'm not smart enough to do it. That all came back to me like when I was doing this because it's a 20 minute talk. It was well, it was 18 minutes. And I was listening to Elizabeth Gilbert. Do you know who that is? She wrote Big Magic. She was like an author. Yes. Yeah. And she was talking about she did a talk for Oprah and she was like, OK, doing a talk for Oprah is not the time that you, you know, you like wing it and you don't memorize it. She's so she's like was talking about her journey of memorization right around the time I needed to memorize, which is crazy. And so she said the best way to do it is to walk it into your body, like walk while you're doing it and don't you don't want to memorize too far out. You only want to memorize within a week. So you want to know the talk, but within a week, you only want to memorize it. Otherwise, it just you can actually forget it or something apparently. So for one week, I would go on like two hour long walks and I would read the paragraph and then try to say it out loud and then read it and say it out loud. Then I'd go to the next paragraph, then I'd try to combine those. And I would just I'd be talking out loud the whole time in Los Angeles. So it was totally fine because I looked like everyone else then. And in one week, I memorized the whole thing. And thank God I did because the teleprompter broke on everyone that day. And my first girl that went up did not memorize her talk and it was a disaster. No, wait, that is so. Wow, I do think there is merit to waiting to really close to the thing to memorize. But like you said, you need to know it like you need to. You should be able to give the bones of it before. Yes, for sure. But I think if you haven't in your brain for too long, you can actually start to think about it too much. And you're like, wait, was I supposed to say smoothing second skin swim or ultra smooth like, do you know what I mean? And you've done it 60 times at that point. But that's so smart. Wait, so what happened? Could they air the girl who didn't have no. Oh, my God. No, I know. It was it was. Yeah. So that definitely she went first. And she was so nervous, like in the teleprompter broke and she took her shoes off on stage while up there and then just kind of said, like, I don't know where to go from here. So you guys, she recovered, she's fine. She's great. But like how things happen. So yeah, so try to try to record it. And we all know that that was for her journey as well. I'm sure she's doing fantastic now. Yeah. So anyway. Well, I love that. I love like I feel like bringing people on this podcast to like knowing those super intense moments are just they're just such breakthrough moments for your life. What would you say is just like, how are you different on the other side that you personally, who you are as a woman, a founder, all of it? Yeah, I just had so many limiting beliefs about myself. Like I just wasn't the type of person who could get this or get that or oh, this would happen, but there would certainly be a catch or things like that. And I just don't think that way anymore. Like that entire experience rocked that for me, that whole belief system of like, yeah, I'm just going to have to like, you know, except that that'll never happen for me because I'm not the type of person that that happens to like that was my whole thing. And that's just gone. Hmm. So good. You got to do you have to do the big scary thing. Like you have to dive. No pun intended. You have to go into the shark tank, literally. Yes. Because look how transformational that is for you. And I have no doubt that you will be insanely successful. You already are because of that because you know now that you can do anything. And I think those moments are pivotal instead of resisting it and avoiding it. Like we all want to like starting to have the motto of head first. Like you got to go head first, dive in. If you see it, take a dive because it's going to it's going to get you to where you need to go. So I'm so grateful for you. And I want people to go check out your brand because it's absolutely incredible. It's beautiful. Not only is it beautiful, but it also fits you amazing. It's going to make you feel so freaking good. And while it's still summertime, which by the way, I'm in California, Texas, Arizona, all of you, you still need all of your swimwear. And I know all you girls take vacations and want all the content. So this is the cutest stuff ever. Go follow her and go pick out your swimsuit and truly like Tag us. I want to see it. I want to know we were like, we're your typical girls. We need to know what you got. Absolutely. No, I also like I find most everything through podcasts. So I would love to see anyone who picks up one with because of this podcast. I just think it's it's such like an enriched way to find out about people and things, you know, so it's like, I don't know, I just find it to be such a cool thing to know, like when people listen to the story, like played out in full and decide to get the product, I just think it's so cool. Say it again, where we can follow and you guys and putting her link to the website in the show notes below. Our main platform is Instagram. So one with swim. We're also on TikTok. One with swim, one of some dot com, one of some of everything. And yes, thank you for having me on, Lori. Like this was an amazing opportunity to be able to talk with you and like someone who gets the visualizing the manifesting and just like getting your mindset right in relation to your business, I think is so important. And I really hope that this was able to help people today. Yay, I loved it. Well, you guys make sure you go follow, click the links. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye, everyone.

=== FILE: The Visibility Playbook to Get More Eyeballs FAST with Andi Eaton Alleman [213-B67pVI0].txt ===

 2026, with just the change of algorithms, you really need to have a point of view. Otherwise, you're literally just a vanilla ice cream cone that everyone's scrolling past. Seriously. If you don't have a point of view, you're done. When we work on social, we think about three things. What value are you bringing? What vibe are you bringing? And then what can you say that has viral-worthy potential? And usually that part's a little scary. And you're welcome to the podcast. Hi. I'm so happy to be here with you. I'm so excited. Thank you for making the trip down. Of course. You're in Los Angeles. I am. So I'm not even sure how I found you, but I'm so glad that I did, probably because you're great at social. Thank you. The thing that I really am desperately trying to be right now. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited to be here with you right now. Thanks so much. Yeah. You really, in a world of a whole lot of people doing what you do, you really stand out. And I think one of the coolest things is because of that, I've worked with so many different people who I'm like, wait, shouldn't your social look good if you're going to help me with that? Right. Yeah. Well, what's funny is I was very resistant about actually supporting clients, women, people with social because I was like, I mean, I'm good at it, but I don't really want this to be my thing. Yeah. And I'd come from a corporate background where I was doing, I was a marketing strategist and then of course social started becoming what social of course is. And I was like, hmm, I could really, really help people with this and I love working with female founders. So I was doing a lot of consulting with female founders before I was bringing social into the conversation and inevitably all the conversations were like, but how are you doing that social thing you're doing? And I was like, this has to be like a key thing to do in the business. I mean, it all leads back to eyeballs like marketing. Totally. It leads back to your background of how do we get more eyeballs? How do we get attention? Yeah. And you've just figured out how to take what you did in the past, which I'd love for you to dive just a little bit in your background and we'll pull that forward into what you're doing. Yeah, totally. So I spent about a decade working with the brand of Ada with that with Estee Lauder and I was I started in sales when I was really, really young. I started with that company when I was like 22 and I worked my way up really quickly and I never really wanted to be in sales. Funny that I'm like, I didn't want to do social. I don't want to do sales. But I know life just tells you what you're going to do. But I loved being with small business owners. I loved being with hairdressers. I loved being with makeup artist. I wanted to be with like the creative people, people that were like in it doing the thing. And in the world of Estee Lauder and Aveda, that's the work I was doing was getting to spend time with hairdressers, makeup artists, salon owners and inevitably building great relationships with them meant being good at sales. So I was I was like 28 and I was like the VP of distribution for the brand and really thought I would probably spend my entire career in some sort of corporate beauty role and I got to I don't know about 10 years in and I was like, oh wait, like I think there's other things to me that I need to explore. And so I left on really great terms and stayed a consultant for for that company for many, many years, which really kicked off me my my opportunity to start being a consultant. But that's where I like really grew up is working inside a corporate beauty brand. What did you learn about yourself throughout those careers? Like what were some of the main themes that came through that you're like, oh, I'm really good at this. Like you started to really figure out your skill set in zone of genius. Yeah, I remember being in one of my first like big deal meetings as a VP and I was very much one of the only women in the room. I was definitely the only person in their 20s in the room. Where was that crazy intimidating? Oh hell yeah. I mean, it was totally crazy. There was I remember that meeting. There was two other women in the room and there was probably it was like maybe 1516 people and the rest were gentlemen and they're 50s and beyond. So I'm like in the room and I had like studied. I like knew the financials. I knew I knew everything I needed to know to show up and be really like good in that meeting. And at the end of the meeting, one of those two women who had had, you know, had to do a lot to be there themselves said to me, she was like, you did great today. You obviously know your stuff. But the thing that we know you have that we didn't see today is you have a deep sense of of what's really going on with our customer because you listen to your intuition so much when you're out there with them. I want you to do that in here too. Wow. So I like immediately was like, oh, they want me here because my gut is good that I have. I have a good sense of what we should do as a brand and I don't need to let these these guys intimidate me. Otherwise, it wouldn't be her. What a gift she gave you totally like still someone I call occasionally. I'm like, hey girl, oh my God, like that's giving me chills because sometimes people offer us those little gifts that like if that wouldn't have happened, you may not have leaned so hard into trusting yourself, which is clearly where your genius is coming from as well. Yeah. Wow. What a gift. Okay. So your intuition through like really deeply trying to understand the customer. What were some of the things that you were doing with that customer that was like revealing what they wanted or like was their questions? What were you putting them through? So most of the people that I was working with like the customer I was working with was they were small business owners. So they were salon and spot owners that were carrying the products that that we sold. And then at the end of the day, they the customer also became the people who worked inside their businesses. So the hairdressers and the makeup artists working or the estheticians working inside their businesses. And so what I really needed to understand is what gets them excited about doing their best work as hairdressers and makeup artists. I love creatives. I love artists like that's my people. So if I could understand what was really going to get them excited to do better work, then they were going to inevitably sell more product because they were going to be doing better work and the salon owner would be more successful because they are having greater sales and then they would be really happy with what I had done with their hairdressers and makeup artists. And then my bosses would be excited because they're like whatever you did in there today, sales are up. Yeah. So, you know, the thing that I really had to learn the long story of that is what motivates people to do their best work and how can they show up in a way that is true to them, but that's really like elevating every single day. And if I can help people do that and they're reaching their potential, then I'm in turn, I'm going to reach mine. I love that. Tell me a little bit about the sales portion. So you said, okay, I didn't want to be in sales. Right. How do you, obviously if they're putting you there, it's because you're good at it. What were some of the things that you noticed that were like your natural inclinations that you leaned into for sales? Tell me a little bit about that. Yeah. I think I'm mostly and I think salespeople who I think today we kind of know this is a thing. People who do all in sales are just great relationship builders. They build trust really naturally with people and that is something I definitely do. And so when you told, you know, 22 year old me, you're going to go be in sales. That's felt like it was going to be slimy and I think we still kind of can have that feeling when we're selling. So I had to think about, okay, what actually am I great at? I am great at building relationships. I'm great at seeing people's potential. I'm great at helping motivate people. And in turn, there's a product that I represent in that job that they will get excited about. And I think that applies, you know, very much as a woman who has multiple companies now and working with female founders. We, I'm sure you hear this all the time too. We still kind of feel like sales is slimy. We don't want to do it. Selling on social feels slimy. We don't want to do it. But if we think about it as a relationship building mechanism, then it's a whole lot easier to do. I completely flipped how I view sales because technically for anyone listening, like you're doing sales in your life all the time. All day long. Yeah. Like you're selling yourself. You're selling. Yeah. You're literally selling like your children every day. Meaning like you're selling an idea of what you want in your life and you don't even realize that you're probably a great salesperson in certain departments. Right. And it's like reverse engineering that to something that you do want to do and make money from, which we're totally getting to in just a minute. Okay. So tell me how the studio came about. We eat studios and you also have a physical product, which we will get into, which I absolutely love because you're helping people with the thing you're also in. Yeah. It's been for me like as someone who helps entrepreneurs to be in multiple things that I'm like, Oh no, I've been in your shoes. I have felt this pain. I know exactly what to do here. Or like we're going to get through this. Yes, this might be hard, but let's let's figure it out and you can find like a great angle for yourself or whatever that looks like. So I love that you do that because it can make you like the authority and the expert in that. Totally. Okay. So tell me about how the studio started how and what that all does and how you help people within that. Yep. Absolutely. Okay. So the studio started after I had probably been I'd probably spent about maybe five or six years as a consultant and I also was working as a travel blogger. Okay. Very much a working travel blogger and then 2020 hit and travel bloggers were not traveling. Oh yeah. Right. So I was like, let me write about my living room again. Right. I was like, okay, I'm going to make zero dollars this year. You know, obviously like in the old days of blogging, you actually could also make money on, you know, just revenue coming in from people reading the blog before it was just the blogging men Instagram. Yeah. So I, you know, I still had some of that going on, but I was having this moment of like, okay, I'm doing a lot of consulting with big brands and my travel blogging gig is about to be on serious pause. So like, what does that look like for me next and what feels important? And so we're in the midst of the pandemic and what I was noticing is so many women in my life and my community were in the midst of some sort of pivot during that time. So here I am consulting with like big corporate brands and I'm seeing all of these women who are like, I think I'm going to step into entrepreneurship. I think I'm going to try this thing. I've, you know, we're all like figuring it out right now. So what really occurred to me was that what I was doing as a consultant, I wanted to be able to duplicate that for especially for female founders and especially for the women that I was witnessing trying to figure it out. So I was like, what if I take this marketing work, this like I was doing a lot of like executive coaching also, what if I take all of this that I'm doing in a corporate environment and make this available to indie brands and female founders, creatives and artists. So that was really the genesis of Wee Wee Studio. And so I launched it then and so the way that the way that I thought about building it was, okay, we'll still have this, this place where we consult and we go into brands, but then we'll also have courses, memberships, masterminds, tool kits, things that are accessible for founders no matter where they are on the way. And sometimes that may also mean that we're going in and doing consulting with them, but a lot of times that meant especially at that point in time that they needed something lower, lower ticket ultimately, and they weren't going to be able to pay a consulting fee like a big brand would. So I was like, what if we just make this all available? And then what is it that we ultimately do? And so when I really like looked at what feels like the most important thing, it's helping brands and founders get visibility. And so that's really how we talk about the studios. That's what we do. We help you get visibility in whatever way that is for you, whether you're a big corporate brand and you need some sort of kind of new look at how your products sit in the marketplace or you're a female founder and you're just getting started. When I say we, we have a small team, you know, it's not like I'm running an office with like 20 marketers, it's me plus four women and we started from there in 2021 and now here we are. Wow, I love that. So small team, you tell me about your ideal client. Like tell me about who mostly comes here. We were kind of, yeah, we were kind of talking about that because I was like, here's how I found you. Here was my struggle. Yep. And I'll just share what we had said. I said, you know, the reason I was attracted to your page and what you do is because I had come from a different industry. I'd come from like digital products, coaching, masterminds, books, events and while that was like that was doing really well, the messages, the more you do get get confusing and then now throw in that I have a physical product and I felt I still feel it's getting better, but like so spread thin and when I go to social, it's like a giant clusterfuck because my messages are all over the place. I'm like, what do I talk to first? Who do I talk to? Like who's my demographic in this one? Who's my demographic in this one? And it's almost like I feel like for creative people, what can happen? Is it just you go into avoidance because there's just too much. So that's where I was and I'm like, no, Lori, you have to sit and you have to learn this. Like you have to figure this out. Yeah. And so that's where, you know, I found your page. I found a few other people's pages, but you really helped me with a few just like understanding like how can I have some key messages around each thing that I'm doing? So tell me about your client. Cause I feel like her, but tell me your ideal. Yeah. Well, that you just described. That's it. That's the client. I mean, what we see now, the women that are coming into the studio now are typically just like what you're describing. They've built something, whether it be, we have a lot of women that come in that have been creators, they've been influencers. They've built a personal brand and now they also have one product brand, a second product brand, or they've, they've got a book deal or they did, they're doing Ted talks or things of that sort. And they're trying to, they're trying to sort out how do I show up as me and how do I also support the products or the brands or the things that I'm doing and how do I stay? How exactly what you're talking about? How do I stay really aligned to what that looks like and get the best results? And how do I figure out who my people are? And what if I have people that sit in like multiple seats with all the things that I do? So that's what we see a lot. That's, that's the clients that come in that really want like the deep brand work. We also have a mastermind program called the Colt brand blueprint accelerator and in that program, it's a whole lot of startups. We have lots of female founders who are building some sort of startup business, whether it's CPG or a service style business. It's a little more CPG on that side of things, but in their case, they're usually like, I'm launching a beauty brand or I'm launching a wellness company or I'm launching an app. I'm launching something and I'm trying to figure out what does that look like and how do I as the founder show up? So it's a bit of both of those two things. Yeah. The landscape has changed so much where yes, we knew the founder was showing up and that can really push sales. And of course we've seen people who are already big influencers and celebrities do it. Yeah. But now it's kind of like, no, you need to have a face. Like especially, I think something that's game changing with what you do is, you know, when you can gain visibility as a founder, you are saving so much marketing money. So true. It's insane because I think about, you know, and now I have a co-founder and for anyone listening, like when I brought that co-founder in, it was about how visible can she make us? Because you can buy, I could pay a lot of people for talent for different things, but what you can't pay for is somebody who can organically get a lot of eyeballs, like who understands how to do that and who understands how to do sales. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built-in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations, effortlessly create, personalize multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI-driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY to save 50% on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about, but then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video. Just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your Aura Frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting Aura Frames.com to get $35 off Aura's bestselling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wirecutter by using promo code, earn at checkout. That's AuraFrames.com, promo code, earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. So I think for, you know, maybe someone who isn't super visible yet or a founder who's like, no, I need to be a more visible founder. Like you're the things that you teach are so incredible for that. And you can really, what I'm finding is just consuming so much content and looking at so many different things. And what I love about your content is I do believe with what you do, you can make people the authority pretty quickly. I think so too. I mean, what's been interesting in the seat I sit in because I'm also in process of launching a brand is I went through exactly the work that we do myself. Yeah, it's so powerful. I mean, I had to because I, I since 2021 have been the founder of Wee Wee Studio. So the way I was typically running Wee Wee Studio in terms of driving sales was on my personal page, which is Wee Wee Girl, which is my old blog name, which is why it's called Wee Wee Studio and Wee Wee Girl. So I was like, I just have to run this one page, just got to do me on this page and I will drive sales into my business. It's great. It's easy. Then three years ago, I started working on the beauty brand and I was like, there's going to be a moment where I have to be the founder of two. So I can't only drive Wee Wee Studio on my personal page. I have to really now establish Wee Wee Studio as its own standalone thing and it's going to have to do its own work. Still means I'm behind it, but it has to have its own voice, its own point of view and it has to fit me, but it can't be me. It can't just be me. So I had to think about that and then start thinking about now, how do I on my page start talking about the fact that, oh, and I'm now launching a beauty brand. So you know me as well for my long time people, they knew me as a travel blogger. So like, you've known me as a travel blogger and then I launched this studio and oh, and now I'm launching a beauty brand. So I had to think through all of that in a really big way. And so probably, I guess like six months ago, I like made a really like really hard fast decision that we were going to double down on everything we were doing with Wee Wee Studio on its own independent page and really drive business through that page. So I took my old podcast page, which was totally dead. I'd like kind of never done anything with it and was like, this is now the Wee Wee Studio page. It's going to go hard and it really has and it's like it does its job now. Yeah. That's a hard thing to for a lot of founders who have visibility already, but then they've got all these things going on. They're like, do I start another page? Do I change the name of my handle? Like what do I do? Like who am I supposed to be? Who is the brand supposed to be? Where do I sit amongst all of this? And it's a it's it's it's a lot to figure out. Yeah. So let's start there because I I really think from what I know about my audience that a lot of them are multi passionate. Yeah. They are either in something right now or then they have a side hustle or they are very successful and they are spread thin and they're doing multiple things. Yeah. So let's use that avatar. Let's use somebody who has multiple things going on. Yeah. A lot going on in their head. They get very confused when they go to sit down to get visibility. Yeah. Anything. What's my messaging across this platform? This platform, email all the things. Yeah. What would you say? Where do we start? Like what does that whole process look like? Yeah. So typically the first thing that we would want to do and this, you know, you hear the idea of, oh, go do your ideal client work. So we hear that a lot. But the way I like to think about it a little bit differently is rather than calling it ideal client work, let's build a vision board of all the different people that sit in your kind of like in your space and not your vision board for them. Like what is their vision board? Then figure out where do you exist in their vision board? So if I'm thinking about that for you, Lori, so one of the things I might think about is the woman who has Lori on her vision board, what about you? Is she excited about? And then does she also have your product brand on her vision board? Does she have your books on her vision board? So maybe she has all of those and like that's your like perfect, perfect client, right? But then there's going to be the other one who's like, I'm here for Lori's brand, like I'm here for Glossy. Like that's what I'm excited about is like what that can do for me. So then when they see you talking about that, then they're like, oh, I'm also into like what Lori's got going on. So you have to start thinking about like who are the people, where do you fit into their life? And typically people are buying one of two things. They're buying the effectiveness of what the product is going to do to make their life better or they're buying the identity. Like how, how that product, how that product like puts them into some sort of belonging and whether or not it like really like works for them. Like hopefully it does, but that's not the first thing they're thinking about. So like brands that like come to mind that everybody knows like Spanx is an easy one. Like there's a, there's something that's like when Spanx launched all the women that bought it were like, Oh, well, I needed this. It like does something for me. And then you also wanted to identify as a Spanx wearer cause they're like, you had a secret kind of. So like there's brands that can do both. And then there's brands that do one or the other really well. So the work I really like to start with is how can we create a world where you're doing both? And maybe the product is sitting on that vision board in some capacity and the identity sits on it in another capacity and then think about how you show up. And share a bit of both of those things. And that's kind of the starting point. Then you got to like map out. Okay. So then what's the messaging? What do we say? One of the things we do a lot of work around is what are your community mantras? Like what do people repeat back to you enough so that it starts to feel like they're in on something, which is like the best loyalty builders when like women feel like they're in a club and like have something to say back to you and they all know it. So that's something we spend time on is like really like thinking about what the, that set of language might be. Brand rituals is a really important one. Like does your brand do something special that when the customer experiences it, they're like, Oh, that, that's like, that's super cool. And I want to be a part of that. A really nice example that I saw recently was, um, SIF from Array, the brand Array, was talking about how when they first launched, they put a Polaroid picture in every box that they packed before it went out. Just like a really nice little brand ritual touch that people would get the picture and like post on stories like, Oh, I just got my Array. Here's my picture of SIF and Nish like packing the box. It's just like cute little like thing that you can't scale, but at the beginning it creates this like, this like connectedness. So those are some of the things I would start with first is what's that vision board of the person, the perfect person? What's the language? What's the mantras you want them using? What's the rituals that you can invite them into? And you can think about that in each like kind of like each bucket of, of who the whole of you and your brand or brands is. What do you see when those customers come in? What's something that you're like, Oh gosh, let's clean this up right away. What are some common, common things that you're seeing out there that when you scroll past, it's just like, Oh, that's a, you know, that's something I would not know. Yeah. Okay. So people talk all the time about like, you should build in public, build in public, build in public. And I don't think that's inherently wrong, but I think there's a difference in building in public and brainstorming in public. And what I wouldn't do and what I see happen a lot is on someone's launching a brand and they've got the brand page already set up and they're like real hard experimenting in public. And so you're the brand identity is a mess. Yeah. And that feels, it doesn't mean you shouldn't show all the things that it's taking behind the scenes to make it happen. But if it's like, you're just doing a brainstorm and you haven't really landed on the perfect person, what that vision board is going to become, what the, what the language is. If you haven't gotten that part right and you're like playing with like, do we speak luxury or do we speak relatability or do, are we premium or are we, are we like accessible and you're like playing all of that out in front of a future audience and then like you don't kind of like get it dialed pretty fast. That I feel like kind of doesn't work. What I would do all day long is experiment on, on your personal page, like tell the truth about what you're figuring out. Like we're trying to decide, are we luxury? We're trying to decide, are we accessible? But I wouldn't do it on a brand page and I see a lot of founders come in and they're like, here's my brand page and it's like, it feels like a mess. And so then they're like, but I haven't really talked about any of that on my personal page because I really am just trying to like get people excited about the brand and it's like, no, do it the other way around. Get the brand really, really right and then play on your page and let people like find their way in to the brand that already looks and feels pretty good. Even if you have to change it later, change it later, but like don't let it be a mess at the beginning. I've been guilty of that. Yeah, it's normal. It's totally normal. But definitely now I'm like, okay, how about we get more dialed first? I mean, I did it with Casanoon with the beauty brand. I like had packaging that we ended up scrapping that I like had whole photo shoots. Oh yeah. You know, like, I think we all do that at some point and we're like, this is it. I got to show the people and then I was like, well, that was like scrapped every bit of that archive. Every one of those photos. I've done it multiple times. I'm a fast start to like, I'm just like, get it out. Yeah. Dang it. Yeah. As I get older, you know, it's only taken me like 45 years, but right. So I get older and like, okay, like good things need a second. They do. They just need a second. Like no matter how good that you have been at winging it, I especially think moving forward into 2026. Like I think things need to be more thoughtful. Totally. And what you said is brilliant. It's like still show the build because people need to see the behind the scenes, but I think like what you're rolling out with. Exactly needs to be thoughtful. So in terms of.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, Okay, I've got a product, but I don't have like a world yet. And so you want people to feel like they're a part of the building of the world. And then when the world drops, it's like, oh, I got to be a part of that all the way. And now here's the world. And then the world needs to feel really good. Yeah. I, for anyone listening like this actually is, is such a weakness for me. Like in terms of, I aesthetically know what looks great. I can be very drunken. I can decorate my house. I can dress myself. But when it comes to actually putting like my brand visuals out, I needed, I needed a lot of help around it. So I don't want people to, to feel deterred by it because there are people like you who can help. There are a lot of people out there who are really good at it. It doesn't have to be your absolute skill set for rolling out a brand. It certainly helps. Yeah. But you can find people. Totally. And I think if, if like, if you're listening and you're like, but I'm just, I don't even know where to begin. And I'm not quite at a place where I want to go hire someone to help me with this. One of the things that we recommend a lot. And I, and I, when I see someone do this, while I get really excited about it is like, look at what, look at the space that you're about to, that you're launching into. So like, let's pretend you're launching a wellness brand. Go look at that space. Go look at what everybody's doing. And then think about what you can do differently that's going to make you, like you personally and your brand that you're building have its own distinct personality. So in the world of wellness, you're probably seeing like a lot of neutrals, a lot of like, you know, a lot of pastels, a lot of like handwritten fonts, a lot of things that feel kind of like elegant, really, really like soft and pretty. What if you took that and then think about what, what your personality is about and brought something that's like quite unique and your own point of view and start there before you even go hire someone to help you build a brand and see what you come up with. And like a nice example of that might be the open app and open, if you've been to the open studio in Venice, they are a wellness studio meditation app. Everything looks like futuristic. It's all like, it's all like shape driven. Like even when you walk in the studio, it's like there's a big round like sunlight in the middle of the room. And they started really as like, this is a meditation app. And like what we know of meditation apps is like calm and headspace and all of those types of things. And they're like pretty blues with script and then open is like silvers, blacks, golds, like really like deep colors. So the difference is it feels like this is like smart, interesting meditation. And this feels like intro meditation. So like call-nap feels like intro meditation, not about things, just what they are. And you can tell the people behind open, we're like, we want to be meditation for like luxury level, smart thinking type of people. And if they had just done like the same blues with like nice pretty script, it just would have felt like another meditation situation. And they've grown tremendously from like thinking about what's our what's our person? Where do we sit on their vision board? And what's the point of view that we have that's quite different from everything else that's already out there? So if you can start there, you can start to think about, well, where do I want to what do I look like feel like sound like, etc. in the market before I even have to go hire a brand person? OK, so 2026 definitely with just the change of algorithms and the tick tockification of algorithms, like you really need to have a point of view. Yeah, you really need to stand out. Yeah, you otherwise you're literally just a vanilla ice cream cone that everyone's scrolling. Like it is gotten. It's real this year. You're just algorithm wallpaper. For sure. We were talking some I mean, I'm we see it in we work with so many different businesses you do to. Yeah. And it's like you really have to get a point of view. You have to. And so what would you say for like this next year and potentially moving forward? Yeah. How do we stand out? Like what? Yeah, what does that look like? Yeah, you you're so right. Like if you don't have a point of view, you you're just you're done. You're done in the water. So the three when when we work on social, we have our clients think about three things. So we think about what value are you bringing? What vibe are you bringing? And then what can you say that has viral worthy potential? And that's usually where that point of view piece comes in. So and usually that parts a little scary because it's like, well, if I say this and I really believe this, then I'm talking about that. Yeah, like it might be bad attention or maybe you know, maybe you're feeling on the right side of the algorithm and people will agree with me. It's 50 50. You just don't know. But if you can do the if you can do that, you can do those three things like have have great value for your people. But that's just not enough anymore to just be providing great value. Have a vibe. You better like have a look, feel an energy. It has to be novel. It has to be you. It cannot just be the same thing that everybody else is doing. You will blend in so fast if you try to do that. So you know your vibe like know your have a vibe have one whatever that needs to be. And then have the hot takes have the point of view. The things you're going to say that make you uniquely who you are and say them say the things. And so if you can do those three things, what I what I typically see is people will come in for the viral take. Then if you're bringing that like value, then they're like, oh, but actually she said a lot. They do a lot of things that I'm also like getting something from and they like the vibe. Well, now now you've got to at least you have a fighting chance. But those things you've got to think about. And then the other thing, which is something we spend a lot of time on is what's your lore. And I find that people really founders really struggle to know their lore. What makes you the person to look to for this thing? Like and back to that really easy Spanx example, we all know Sarah Blakely's story. Like we've heard it. She was selling fax machines. She was trying to wear. She was trying to like wear suits and dresses that like she felt like she didn't look great and she wanted to be able to do open toed shoes and not have to wear hose with open toed shoes. So she cut the cut the legs off started doing that. And then was like, oh, I think I'm going to make this thing. Found a factory who like the factory owner's daughter was like, oh, dad, I think this is a good idea. You should like do this. She had like $4,000 built the business started like, you know, selling Nordstrom's just by like walking in and like, you know, doing the thing. We've heard that story. That's her lore. Like that's the lore. So you've got to really know what yours is and people have to really buy in to like, okay, what's this person about and do I want to get invested in like where they just came from? So I think like getting those that vibe value viral worthy piece, right? And then really having a story that people are like, yeah, I'm into that. It's so interesting because as I'm living this right now, it's it's tough to know what that is when it's you sometimes. I've found like, you do have to test it. You do have to go on podcast and I'm like, oh, they just perked up or dug into that when I talked about that particular story. So I am trying to it's it's it's interesting because I'm trying to figure out what that is with Glossy right now. And I'm like, well, I think I'm this person for these three reasons, but what's the one because you need to be able to repeat it back. Just like we all can. Yeah. Just about everyone listening to tell you the Sarah Blakely story. And there's a reason for that. Right. It's perfected. She probably maybe that wasn't the original story that she's like, here's why I'm making it. Maybe it was like, I don't like how my thighs stick out of this dress. And I, you know what I mean? Yeah. That other story hit. So I think there's so much because I know I used to get so overwhelmed and like, I don't I don't know what that is. And how do you figure that out? This stuff takes so much testing to talk it out. You have to talk it out. I mean, go in rooms with women, just like you just said, and talk about what you're creating or what you've built or what your products are or what your story is. And notice, like, what do people get excited about when people introduce you? What do they say about you? Yeah. And we get, we're so like close to our own stuff that it's like we, we cannot half the time, like even kind of see the things that like light other people up about us. So if we can like figure that stuff out, when we run our Colt Bram Blueprint accelerator group, it's one of the things we have them or it is the thing we have them work on first is what's their founder lore. And it's interesting to see how much women really struggle with like getting that into like a packaged up thing, because we've never had to do that. And we kind of don't want to like, we don't want to like humble brag so much. So what makes you special? Right. Like, well, I just want to help people with this. And like, I always tell my, my women in that program, and I'll tell everybody that's listening, like, don't, don't tell me how you empower people. Don't tell me what you're passionate about. Don't use those types of words at all, because we just like glaze over at those types of like words like empowered, passion, you know, just inspired like, oh, I just love inspiring women. Like if I came and sat down and said, Lori, the reason my, I started my brand, my company is because I just really love inspiring women. It's like everybody, everybody listings like, I think I'm going to listen to the next episode with whoever she has next, because like, that's just not enough anymore. Yeah. And you don't, you don't even know what that is. We see that so much with, especially just personal brands or coaching. It's like, you cannot put you empower women in a bio. Like, how, what does that look like? Who, what's the problem? Like there is, you just blend, you literally just blend in and it's like, people are actually so sick of it and so over it, because you don't know what it, you don't even know what it means. Like at all. You couldn't even start to guess what that means. It really doesn't. Yeah. Really doesn't have, it doesn't hold any value for anyone because they're not, like they're not like, I'm looking for empowerment today. We always say that, really, did she wake up and roll out a bed and go, I'm, I'm just looking for an empowerment coach. Yeah. Who can be that for me? Because I'm not inspired. Like we know if we're not inspired, but the thing we're not saying is, please, someone come empower me. So I can like, we're like, I need to make more money. I need to find better friends. I need like cooler relationships. I like want to travel more. Like I, you know, I want to feel sexier, like whatever it is. Like there's a thing, there's an outcome you're looking for and whoever it is, you're going to hire in that world and a coaching world, for example, has to be able to show you, this is how I take you from where you are right now to getting sexier or getting wealthier or getting happier or getting better dates or whatever the heck it is. Yeah. Okay. So let's talk in terms for people in more of the coaching or digital space that do multiple things. Like they truly do really well at coaching in multiple departments. Yeah. I really do believe it is like a singular message focus though, to attract people top of funnel, like what is the main thing you do? One of the biggest struggles that I see all the time is they're like, yeah, but that's not just what I do. So it's so hard to lead with that. You know, it's so hard to almost, almost like how big brands just have one tagline. Yeah. They, you know, a state lotter might do a million things and have, you know, skin care and makeup and all the things, but they're probably like they're leading with one through line, totally. That someone across the entire world could be able to tell you. So what would you say for people who are in the multifaceted businesses and they can help you with multiple things? Yeah. How do you figure out the one thing you lead with? Yeah, that's, it's such a good question. And like, and, and the best state lotter example, one that we all know is, is Nike. Like what is Nike? It's just do it. Yeah. They sell tennis shoes. They sell, you know, clothing. They sell, they sell all sorts of things. So I love that question because I think this, that's where you have to start thinking about what is my community language and can I create language that my, my people, whether they buy this program I have or this program I have, and I'm doing all these different things, what's the overarching language that they will identify with? And I'll give you an example. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about, from what customers to see, to what they don't see, like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn with the holidays and the new year coming. You probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award-winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between. Choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees. And there's zero pressure from blackout in motorized options to classic shutters. Blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code, earn at checkout, limited time offer, rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stop thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. Choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in to create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard in 2026. Stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm going to share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bra, that connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle, brolet and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery. It's soft. It's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn your happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. We in my community, we started testing and you got to test this too. Cause it's like, you might come up with something you think it's really great. And then no one's like, it's not sticky. So one way to think about it is like, can you come up with something that's like a little bit, maybe even opposites, like in the, in the words of really, I'm going to share my example in a second, but one that I see that I notice like gets a lot of traction is her name is Amy and her handle on Instagram is lazy millionaire. She gets so much traction because it's like, wait, you can be lazy and be a millionaire. She sells her programs and she has a manifestation program and of course creation program and a social program. She has all these different things, but everybody wants to identify as in her crew and her, in her customer list as a lazy millionaire. So she can just say, like, this is how you become a lazy millionaire. And then you can buy any of the many things that she offers. So in our world, one of the things we started playing with a couple of years ago was that we're no gatekeeping smart girls. And so all these women would come in and sometimes men too, and they're like, I want to be a smart girl. Like I want to know what's like, what's not being gate kept. Like I want that stuff and I want to be a smart girl. So then we could sell a retreat. We could sell a course. We could sell a mastermind and it's all under the umbrella of you're going to come here and we're not going to gate keep. And you're going to be a smarter girl than you already are when you leave. So you're going to know some stuff, whether it's like, it's like how to build a funnel or how to create social or how to, how to map your brand language, but it's all through that lens of like being a smart girl. So the long answer to that, where I'm like really getting to is like figure out what the identity is that people will really connect to, create language around that. Then you can sell all the things underneath that. As people come in and really identify with what that is. Okay. I love that. What is your like definition of success for yourself right now? Gosh, it's changed so much. Also like it does once we're in our forties, right? We're like, oh, life, life has a very different lens when you're in your forties. My God, way different than I even expected. Yeah. So all other podcasts for us. Yeah, we could totally dive right in there right now. We really could. Yeah. I think success for me now is am I creating the spaciousness to live the way I want to live? And it's like, I say that as I'm launching a beauty brand. So it's not like I'm like doing that actively today, creating a lot of space, but I am ultimately in charge of my life. You know, I, I've created a company that I get to decide what it looks like. And ideally I'm doing that again with the second business. So I think like having that spaciousness, it's certainly it would be a lie for me to say, like, it's like I work until two and then I have the whole afternoon off. Like that is not my reality right now. I have a membership group called out of office club and like everyone in that group, like the definition of success for the group is that we get to live out of office lives. It doesn't mean we're not working when we're out of the office, but we're like getting the spaciousness of like really having, having the choice to be wherever we want to be, to travel to, you know, to be with family, to be with friends, whatever that looks like. So that's, that's probably what my definition of success looks like. And I'm also thinking, I mean, I am still highly ambitious. I'm thinking about like, what's going to happen in the future with this brand? And so I'm working on attracting investment money. And I'm thinking about like what shell retail shelves we're going to be on in the future, in the near future. And so there's those like success markers, but what I see at the long end of that is more spaciousness for myself. Yeah, I feel that that's my, that's my goal, future goal. I'm not definitely working towards it. Yeah. We're working towards it. And I am enjoying it. Like it's, it is a lot. And I will say it's like more than I've ever experienced right now with the product, just right exactly where we're at too. And in the fundraise. But I also, I think the beautiful thing about your forties is like being able to go, okay, I know this is for my evolution. I attracted this, everything that's happened that was hard has only made me better. So now we have a bunch of evidence at this point in our lives, which is great. Yeah. Let's talk about that just for a second, because I think there's so much pressure on women and men as well. But it's like now we see all these 20 year olds who are popping off because the content that we're seeing is the successful content, which makes us think everyone's successful. We're not seeing as much. This is also really important for you guys to hear because we're not seeing as much of the people kind of just getting started because that content's being muted. They don't have it on diet. They don't have it on lock yet. They haven't figured that out. So we're seeing a ton of successful content from 20 year old starting things and founders blowing up everywhere. And then 30 some things who are doing incredible things. And I think there's a lot of 40 some things that when women are coming to their 40s or like, is this the end of it? Or do I have this opportunity to reinvent, to start a product, to start a business? What advice would you give to a woman in her late 30s, early 40s, who's like, is it too late for me right now? Yeah, I would be like, fuck now. Absolutely not. And you have all the lived, the lived knowledge, the wisdom that you just don't, you cannot collect that. You can't collect it any other way except for living and having the, having the time in the world. And I mean, I really believe, and I'm starting to see this, and I know you probably are too, that like the next hot founders, creators, the like, I'm using air quotes, as I say, influencers, because they also mean like thought leaders, absolutely will be women in their 40s and 50s who have so much lived experience, who've worked in multiple brands, environments, had companies that have had success, had companies that failed, like just have this like really like deep wealth of knowledge. I really think that's the people we're going to be looking to. And I just think it's like, I think it's so cool when you say, and maybe it's because I am in my late 40s, but I think it's so cool when you see a woman who's like, you know what, I've lived all this time and like, I have an idea and I know it's a good one because I've spent all this, all this time living. So I'm actually going to go out and create this. The other thing that happens, I think when you can do that is there's the probability that you can move with a little bit more of like your own, at your own speed and make your decisions in a way that like you feel really grounded in them, whether it's because you're putting your own money into the thing and you don't have to like, have to move in the same way you might have had to move if you had done that thing in your 20s, but you just have a different level of like ability to sit with things, to like handle things. So yeah, if someone was like, you know, I left my corporate job when I was 30, I guess I was like 36 when I left my corporate job. And I had a lot of people being like, that's so brave. And I'm like, dude, I think I'm just like getting started. Like, what are you talking about? My parents were definitely like, what do you mean? You're like leaving a VP position. Like, isn't like the next level like, like, isn't that everything? And I'm like, if that's everything, like this is a very boring life. Like that's not, that does not feel great for me. So I would just encourage you to really think about what's going to light you up for the next part of your life and find a way to go for that thing. Oh, it's so empowering. And I think there's, there's so many gifts in your late thirties and forties. I can only imagine what comes in our fifties. Yeah. Because exactly what you said, I'm like, oh my God, if I would have had this business, even in my thirties, like earlier to mid thirties, you're so much more reactionary. You just are. You just haven't had the ability to know that shit sandwich has come multiple times a day and that they're not like you're going to get through it. And it's actually what entrepreneurship is, is just problems. Yeah. And like you just solve problems all day. Yeah. And I think if I would have really fully understood it at like a grand scale, it would have been, I just didn't, I didn't have, I didn't have the experiences yet to, to let that emotion, like to make decisions from a place of like regulated emotion. Totally. It's, it's interesting as we're recording this episode, we just went through the whole round of the 30 under thirties of the year just all happened. And I'm in a lot of like circles where women that I know are like getting those awards and, and it's like, you know, I look at that stuff and I'm like, it's so incredibly cool that they can have the depth of knowledge that they inevitably are exposed to today, that we had no chance of getting when we were in their shoes and at that age, I think that's amazing. And I also sit and think about like, if I was 28 and I was getting an award like that for something I had built, I just don't know, like thinking about myself personally, would I then want to like, would that, I don't know, how would that feel for me? I would feel so, so like tied to having to do that thing for some long haul or sell it. And that would be great if that's what happens. But I'm just like, I'm so glad I don't have to like think like that or worry about that, or I can just like do what I want to do. I can pivot as much as I want. I can build this company. I can now build this company. And I'm, I'm like kind of, you can't like fuck me up really. So, you know, if I can like, if I can sit in that chair, that's the chair. I want to be in now. Oh my gosh. Yeah. I think there's a lot to being able to pivot, try a bunch of different things. And no matter, no matter what age you are listening to this, like I do think having that mindset of being able to go, this could fail. Yeah. And that's okay. Yeah. And that's okay. Because you, everything changes so fast. Like literally everything can change overnight. And I think it's, I think it's like having this mindset probably much exactly like you have of just knowing like if you got one idea, you're going to get other ideas. Yeah. If you can solve one problem, you can probably solve a lot of problems. Totally. You've lived a life, you've made it this far, you've solved a lot of problems you haven't even thought of. Yeah. And it's just, it's thinking in a different, it's thinking in a different way. So, you know, we had kind of talked about when I asked you what you were excited about or what you love talking about, you're like, you know, just doing you like, what does that look like? What does that look like for you? Like what, what's given you a lot of freedom in your life? I'm guessing this has probably come in your later thirties and forties as well. Of like, what is doing you mean to you? Why is that important? Yeah. It's, it's so true. It is the thing I really love thinking about and talking about is like really getting clear on the word I just used was like.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, of who we are, if that's the stuff we're always thinking about. Like if we're always thinking about like how do I, how do I, how am I perceived or how do I get perceived in the way that I wanna be perceived? We're also living in an era of social media is the thing. And it's like, so we have, it does not matter who you are, you are inevitably playing some version of you on social media. Like we, none of us are like authentically like we just live every day on social. We just can't be cause we, you know, you don't, your life doesn't exist in like 45 second clips. Like it's just not how it is. So, you know, I think like that, that taking that time to really discover like, what are you really interested in? What are you excited about outside of the stuff that makes you money? Do you have hobbies? Do you, is there like art or music or like beauty that you enjoy that's like not connected to anything that like, that's, that's gonna get you paid tomorrow. If you can like figure out those things about yourself, what do you love about the people you spend time with? What do they love about you? Like, what are the things you like to do together that have nothing to do with how you appear in social media or how you, how you make money? Like that's the stuff that inevitably is also gonna just make you a better leader in the longterm anyways. So that's the stuff I like to think about and talk about. And, you know, when I'm hanging out with my friends, like, many of them do much of the things that we do, but it's like so much more fun to like get to spend time just like really like thinking about those things. What are some of the things that are lighting you up right now? I know you love your business. I know you love your product, which I'll ask about in a minute, but what are some things that are really helping you just feel a little more, you know, like your life is fun. It's multifaceted rather than just business. Yeah, so, okay. Anytime I share some of these things, people are like, wait, what? I'm like a massive motorsports fan. Okay, I love this. Yeah, so that's one thing that I'm like, I get excited about knowing that like I'm creating like a possibility of like getting to go to the next like F1 race. Fun. Yeah, that's so fun. I read a ton, like my husband and I are both like massive like bookners and we have like a book club with our family. With like the siblings and we all like read books together. I love that. It's when I think about like the people I like want to spend time with, it's like I want to talk about the books we're reading. I want to go somewhere cool. I want to talk about the sports we're watching. And like, do I ever talk about sports on the internet? No, but I'm like such a, and part of me is like, I just love a good competition. So I'm like, I just want to like, I want to talk about that stuff. Obviously like the one that everybody kind of knows about me is travel. I mean, I love traveling. That's very much like I'm living for like opportunities where I get to go cool places. But you know, those other things, I really, really get excited about too. Art, I love art. I love spending time talking about art. My husband's so damn cool. He just enrolled in a college oil painting class this semester. This semester. And was like, you know, he was like, I'm 20 years older than everybody else in the class. He's like, but he's like, this is so much fun. And I'm like, I'm more of that type of stuff. Learning, like learning, learning something. Maybe you didn't even expect to like, like enrolling yourself in different things like that. I am that hugely lights me up. And I think for, for a lot of my friends and a lot of business people I know, like it's so helpful getting out into something so different like that. Like I'm literally looking at, I've gone to break dancing class with 14 year olds. That was awkward, but I definitely did it. And it was, it was fun and crazy. And it was great stories. Looking at an adult gymnastics class right now, did a circus class. I'm very like physical. Okay. My favorite thing to do is like wakeboarding, wake surfing. So that it helps my creative brain. Number one, it helps things shut off because a lot of business people in business women, especially because our brains are wired to constantly bring bringing everything in and our environment to be like, is it okay? Is the child safe? Are we good? Like we're always thinking. So I think those creative things like that, like in just even being into other things are going to help you just shut down for a minute because I don't think ideas come when you're in your business. Yeah, it's like very rare. Yeah. And when I say like reading, I'm for clarity. I'm not saying self help in business books. Like I'm like, go read a good romance novel. Love it. Like do some things like that. Yeah. But they're just fully taking you out and like giving you just like a different, just like a different place to spend a little time. I totally agree. Yeah. And it's so I am in it right now with business. And it's been, that's actually been challenging because it can shut down those portions of your life for a hot second. But this is a great reminder for me. Yeah. I mean, same. And you know what? I have to do the same thing for myself. And I think it's like it becomes a practice. It really does. It's like, you know what? Like at my house, we have a ritual which is race day Sundays. So we watch the race on Sunday mornings and then I may have to go do a bunch of work and like catch up on things and like, but like that's time. We're going to like watch the race. We're going to have our coffee. We're going to make pancakes. They're usually banana pancakes. That's what we're going to do. And that's time we can be together. And then we maybe have a bunch of other things to go. Spend time on, but that's okay. We're just like making that connection time. And it's the time that I will commit to turning off all the other things. You got to work it in. You have to work it in. Or you're going to hate, you're going to start resenting your job, your life and what you've created. So I want to know about your product because you're crazy enough to do it. Yeah. I really am crazy. Yeah, I feel you. I'm sitting here. So are you. I'm sitting crazy. Yeah. To make me feel normal. Tell me why. I mean, tell me what it is. I think this is why it's going to work is because we're not. And we're just like, we're going to just make this happen. Yeah. I mean, after spending a decade plus working in the beauty industry, it really had not occurred to me that I ever wanted to start my own brand. And then I spent all this time working on brands. And I'm like, but what would I create if I were going to create something? And I probably sat, I like had that floating in the ether for a minute. Like it was definitely there. So then I really started thinking about this more seriously, maybe four years ago or so. And it's, you know, when someone says out loud, oh, I just, there was like this hole in this, in like the skincare space. And I had to create this thing. I'm like, that's not true. There's no holes in the space. There's something for everyone. But I, what I really was thinking about was, okay, what is the products that I need at this point in my life and being someone in their 40s with the lifestyle that I have, which is like I'm on a plane or I'm outdoors, I'm in the elements and what sort of, like what result do I want to have? I have really sensitive skin, but I want to use retinols. I want to use the Tretino and I want all that stuff. But like whenever I do use it, like my skin's irritated and it's like, the retinol burn is terrible. So how can I create something that like, that answers the things that I need and also fits my lifestyle, which is like it has to like fit into a travel bag. It has to like, it has to be able to go from like beach to, you know, city street to plane. It all, it all has to, that all has to go together. So I, that was kind of where I was sitting like four years ago thinking about all of those things. And so I started just looking for a chemist and was like, I don't know what the first product's gonna be, but I feel like it's a serum and I feel like it's something that does what a retinol does, but it has to not be something that you can't be outside or your skin's gonna be irritated. So after a lot of work, I found a really great chemist in San Francisco, started building the first product. It's a serum, it's a hydrating serum, but it's also really balancing. It has proprietary ingredients in it that we have a CLG CMOS, Fita Retinol. So it does what a retinol would do without the retinol burn. And it's like allergy space. So it's like super, super hydration. Like the easiest like marketing way to explain it, it's like the alloy you'd slather on your face after being in the sun as a kid, but if it had anti-aging ingredients and wasn't sticky and gross. Oh, so it's like that. So that's the first serum. And I just, you know, I love, I love living in California. I love the vibe. I love the like experience. I'm not a surfer, but I love like being out in that like environment. And so the brand is like, that's all reflected in like what the brand looks and feels like too. So the brand is called Casanoon. We're launching with that first serum. It's called Sabatical. And it's just like badass. I'm so excited about it. I'm so excited for you. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. And you're pre-launch right now. You're getting very close. Very close. And yeah, it was a three year process. Really. I mean, we got all the way to launch of product one about a year and a half ago. And then I realized there was, this was before the chemist that I'm working with now. There was some things I realized like I just didn't feel great about that we had done. Packaging was one of them. I'd made this like massive mistake of thinking I wanted this like beautiful glass bottle that was gonna like live on people's shelves. And then I like did my own like the work I do with my clients. I did it on myself kind of a little bit backwards where I went and built the packaging before I did that work. And was like, dude, you are a constant traveler. You can't have a glass bottle. Like what are you doing? You're gonna have to now transfer the product into a travel bottle or like this was wrong. Like you did this wrong because you thought you wanted something beautiful. That's just gonna like sit in the bathroom. And that is not your life. And it's not gonna be the life of the women that are gonna use this product. So we had to like scrap that. And the component that was really important to me was having that proprietary what has become that CMOS C algae blend which I didn't know how to create. And I was trying to find the person that could create and I didn't know how it would be created. I just wasn't landing that. And I had kind of like accepted what I had got until I was like, no, the packaging's wrong. The product's wrong. This was very expensive, but we need to stop and start again. So did that about a year and a half ago. And this is why you have to be crazy to do these things. And started again. No, that stuff, and that stuff happens all the time. I mean, I started a full company before this at Pivoted because I realized I never really thought through my skill sets and the way that this product would be marketed. I had started, you know, this Glossy was originally something called light pink. It was a non-alcoholic rosé and light wine spirits. And if I would have gone back, I would have done an exercise much like what you're talking about that said, you know, there's so many exercises you should do before launching a company. But one really should be like, what is your skill set for marketing? Yeah. Like what are you able to do in the company? That is like the biggest asset to the company. And that for me was marketing. And unfortunately with alcohol, I can't market the way that I know how to because I can't run ads to it. You can't talk about alcohol on certain things. Like there were so many, so much red tape that I was like, I just took away one of like the biggest needle movers and the way that I know how to make money that I'm no longer like a huge asset to a company where I could be a massive asset to a wellness company. Like I have proof of that in my life. You know, I've already done that with a product that was a wellness product. So for people listening, it really is like, you love skincare. It's what you came from. And then one of the main things that you realize is you're like, wait, this also needs to fit into my life because one of the main ways you're gonna talk about it is that you can use it for traveling. It's so like easy. It goes everywhere with you, throw it in your purse for the beach, ever, you know, all of these different things. And I think that we can get very like excited about how something feels like I've gotten so caught up and like, oh, that looks so luxury. I wish my thing was like that. I'm like, let's be real, Lori. Like how are you really throughout the day? Like, yes, you have these multiple sides of you, but what is it about your life that makes you wanna grab something? And then the consumer who you're talking to and your audience and all the things. So yeah, very important exercises. Yeah, you have to do it. And that's exactly what I did. I was like, this bottle is gorgeous. It's so luxe. It's like gonna be, everybody's gonna take pictures of it for their Instagram. And it was all that. And then I was like, I mean, I brought it with me on a trip and the damn thing broke. Like the inner like stopper thing broke. And I was like, what? Like, this isn't a sign that I have done this wrong. Then I don't know what is. And so I really went and like the next move was like, I need to get the right advisors to help me really define what, not the brand piece. Cause then I was like, I did this to myself, but I need someone who can help me with packaging and not just me being like, oh, that's a pretty bottle. I need someone who's like, no, this is, this is what the level of this brand deserves. So let's get the right packaging. So then we went to South Korea, got really great packaging cause they're like the innovators of skincare. Relationships I never could have gotten on my own because I had never done that before. So, you know, the big lesson was like, get the right people to get your back, help them like, if they see your vision, that part doesn't have to be tremendously expensive. If somebody really gets your vision and give it the time that it needs, which I feel like now is the theme of this conversation, but give it the time it needs to get it really, really right. Yeah. We want to rush things and it just, there's things can not be rushed. And it'll show you. Yeah. It'll show you. Yeah. So now I'm so excited because I'm like, oh, it's great and I'm thrilled. Yeah. I'm so excited for you. So where can, when are you launching? Yeah. So we're launching mid January, end of January-ish, sometime in January. Okay. We're launching D2C. We have some really great retail conversations that are already in the works of which I can't quite yet talk about, but we'll have some really cool, very aligned retail partners coming pretty quickly behind that. But you'll be able to buy it at costanune.com, which is C-A-S-A, costanune, like the time of day, dot com. And the first product is our sabbatical serum, the hydrating serum. We've got some really cool, like fun, merch-y things too, beach club merch that's already available. And it's been really fun to see our community start to like buy that stuff and wear that stuff, getting excited about the product. How fun. Well, I will link everything up below. So we have that all in the show notes. We'll have it for the product. We'll have it for Wee Wee Studios. Awesome. We'll have your Instagram down there. So you guys can all just scroll right down and check it out. If you want to work with her, if you want to see what I'm raving about, if you want to see the Instagram, I mean, she gives so much value on her Instagram alone. I've gotten like immense value just from watching your Instagram. And I've also bought one of your products, which was great too. So I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Thanks for having me. It's been so fun to get to hang out with you, Lori. Oh my gosh. This is my favorite thing to do. Totally. All right. Well, until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.

=== FILE: Turn Low-Ticket Offers Into Millions (The $27 Funnel That Built 8-Figures) with Maria Wendt [FyPLwcK2Ay4].txt ===

 what never ceases to amaze me is in the low ticket space, you can literally turn words into money. You read pixels that I write on a screen and the word then turn into pixels in my bank account. How many products would you say you could have to start hitting seven figures? To hit seven figures, it's one product. Every one of my students who has done that and followed that hit over a million dollars. Maria, welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much for having me. I'm so excited. I'm really excited. You guys, we recorded a full, we should have hit record. We did a full podcast before this, I feel like. It was good stuff. That was juicy though. I was just going to say that's the T that we're going to do. We will do a part two because we just talked about relationships, men, masculinity, women's expectations on men, dating, all the things because post-abhorst dating, post-abhorst dating for you coming up, coming up. Maybe we'll jump in there when that starts happening. I'll have a lot of T then. I can't wait. Yeah. So it'll be piping hot. We can't wait. But with that, I'm really excited for what we're going to talk about today because I think it's going to be one of the most important topics for 2026. And that is traffic. That is eyeballs. Because you and I have the same exact theory. We were saying it at the exact same time. And we're like, we have this theory. Eyeballs, traffic can solve any problem that you have in your business. It's true. They can solve any problem. Tell me a little bit about that. Let's kick it off there. Well, my theory is this. If I sent you 100,000 people to your checkout page, your business would grow whether you liked it or not. Whether your page sucked, whether your offer sucked, whether you were the way you set it up sucks. If I sent 100,000 people to it, some things would break maybe in your delivery, but you would make more money than you were making earlier. And so when you take something to an extreme, you can really kind of see a little bit more in black and white, which I find to be really helpful. And so I find so many entrepreneurs are focused on all these little fiddling, these little tweaks, these little optimizations when really the thing they need to be focusing on is generating a lot more eyeballs than they currently are. And we were talking about that. We both agree on that. Traffic solves everything. I learned it really early on when I started network marketing about 15 years ago. And everyone was like, oh my gosh, how is your business exploding? How are you guys growing so fast? And I was like, I started to understand it was like Facebook time and I had started on MySpace. And I was like, well, what I've learned is that if like the pipeline is full, I never run out of people to talk to. So I was having eight conversations a day for like years and years. And they're like, how are you finding all these people? I'm like, because my only concern is how many people are seeing what I'm doing and asking me about it. And so I never ever ran out of that pipeline. And as soon as I would notice that the conversation started drying up, I started paying more attention to, I'd go back online. I'd go back on Facebook. I'd go back on a stage. I'd go back and fill that like top of funnel up or like you're saying, like the traffic. And so we never went dry because I was always just like about getting the mass eyeballs. And I think that's why you've made the money that you've made because you focused on what I think is really the only big thing that matters. And I think a lot of entrepreneurs see all these different strategies and all these different things they could do and all these different ways they can grow their business. And I think it is hard to know what matters and what. And so they get, you know, it's not for lack of like wanting to work hard. It's just that they're working hard on the wrong things. They're like, okay, if I, you know, fine tune this automation and really dial it in, all be good. But if you have no one going through that automation, it doesn't matter. And so what I try to teach my students is like, look, the only thing that matters is traffic. And we just did an event earlier last month. And the pretty much the whole day we were talking specifically about traffic and how to break down what we call your daily traffic goals based on your money, based on your revenue, based on what you are selling. And so we teach people like, how much money do you want to make per month? How much is what you're selling? Okay, these are how many people you need to get to view your checkout page every single day. And for all 300 of those people, pretty much that was a new concept to them. The idea of having a goal for how many people are viewing my checkout page every single day. And yet that's the goal that will transform their business, not the other things that they came to the event thinking they were going to get the answers to. Actually, the thing that they want is consistent sales. And the thing that will solve that is consistent traffic. So Maria, I want to go through that in just a second. I actually would love for you to kind of let's walk through, yeah, give some examples. But I want to share a little bit. I know I just read your bio, but I think it's really important for people to know, you know, what you're doing, how your business is set up first. Yeah, and then I want to make sure we circle back to that. Yeah, I want to walk through that because I think you just literally put a little appetizer in front of people and took it away. That's what I do. That's called good telling. That is what I'm so good at. So, you know, I'm not sure if I found you because I moved to Newport. Yeah, I'm not sure if I found you because you're blowing up and I'm claiming this year. You are going to absolutely explode this year. Thanks, yeah. 2026 is going to be the year that everybody knows your name. Thank you beyond so many stages and so many podcasts. So, I'm just so excited. I receive that right now. Thank you. It's all happening. Thank you. I feel things deeply in my bones and in my solar plexus and I'm like, oh, this is like your come up year. I think you're right there because I feel the same way. Yeah, of course you feel it. Yeah, I'm very excited for you. It's like my star is rising. It is. And I want to talk about that because I think people are waiting for their star to rise, but they're not doing what you're doing. So, on this conversation today, we're going to talk about the things that you're doing that they're not and that they can also rise and that's why I also love you is you're very empowering and it's not like Maria. Look, Maria, if you meet her in person, she's got a lot of very special things. She is very special, but also, it's a lot of very teachable things. Yes, I'm not special. I say it like in the nicest way, like I'm not special. I'm not clever and that's good because that means like that's good. I'm just an idiot that posts consistently. That's what I say and you're not like you get my point. Yeah, but you have a lot of skills that you teach people that people can learn. Yeah. And that is one of the most powerful things. So, this year, you went from 300K to 600K followers on Instagram. And that you guys, you know, you're listening like that is a huge leap this year, especially this year. So, people are still growing for the people who are out there like, you know, they're still growing and you had talked about that's like four posts a day. So, we're going to touch on that. We're going to touch on the next thing, but I want people to understand like there is still so much help out there. There are certain things that you're not focusing on that you could focus on. There's ways to grow on Instagram. There's ways to grow eyeballs. There's things we're going to talk about and I already know we need a part two. So, with that said, what I want to do is tell me a little bit about your business and how you sell and how that's broken out and we're going to go back to that. Yeah. I think the thing that is most interesting about my business model is that I sell all low ticket. And so, we scaled up in the like, so we started the year around $500,000 per month selling $200 courses. So, really inexpensive. And then as the months went on, we started doing more and more and more and we've had to $850,000 months now all low ticket. And so, the way I see it like that pretty much puts us on track for like a next year. Like, well, I think we'll end this year around $7 million in low ticket. And then I think next year it'll be over $10 million all low ticket courses, which that's I think what is interesting about my business is that most people are high ticket where they're selling $20,000 things or three or like even like $10,000 things. But we just have a massive wide base of little low ticket customers. And that's where my heart is. That's where my passion is. Like I always say, I don't want to help a few people make millions of dollars. I want to help millions of people make a little bit of money. Like that little bit of like $2,000 a month for an average person. That's a life changing. It's a life changing. They can pay off debt. They can be at home. Like they can do what they want to do with their babies. Like that really gives them a lot of freedom. And I think that's what my really good little courses have been able to help them get those kinds of results. So that's the interesting thing about my business is that it's an eight figure business all low ticket. And so some average prices for low ticket. Yeah, great question. So I'll tell you two things, the average price and then like the prices to avoid. They're like what I call the pricing dead zones, right? Because you don't want to be in the pricing dead zones. So $17, $27, $47, $57, all great price points, right? Even like up to $200, those are your sweet spot. And then you have pricing dead zones that are like $250, $300, up to about $1,000. So think like $200 to $1,000 pricing dead zone. My course, if you do like a $500 course, it's not going to move at the volume you want it to. And the reason for it is it's not low enough to be an impulse buy, but it's not high enough to justify the sales infrastructure that you need to sell something that's like $1,000 or more. So if I'm going to have someone selling over DMs, if I'm going to have someone selling over the phone calls, it needs to be over $1,000 to justify the commission, the infrastructure, the warming, all of that. But if I'm in like $400, it's not low enough to be an impulse buy where I'm not thinking about, I'm like, oh yeah, I'm in, but it's not low enough to where I'm like, I'm not going to like, I'm going to have a ton of questions, but it's just too slow. You guys are literally thinking of certain courses that bombed for us that I'm like, yep. Yeah, that's exactly why. Yeah, it's just, it's, it's, and you don't know until you've done a thousand tests on pricing like I have, like I've, every part of my business has been experimented to hell and back. I'm really like down in the dirty with like down the weeds with it. And so we've learned over the years that there's certain price points that fly off the shelf where you're getting literally thousands of sales and that volume, you end up making more, right? When you're in the course game, all you care about is like the end dollar that you end up with. And so if I can sell something for $27 and sell it more times and make more money than if I sold something for $400, I'd rather do that because I'm helping more people and I'm making more money. Okay. So you have the lower ticket. Are you spending money on ads? And what does your team look like? Yes, two big good questions. We're spending about $300,000 a month on ads. Okay. Our return on ad spend is about 2.5, which is phenomenal. I feel at that volume. Explain that just really quick. Yeah. So if I, so if you have a return on ad spend of 2.5, that means if I spend a dollar, I make two and a half dollars back. And when you're spending a little bit of money per month, that's pretty easy to get a 2.5 return on ad spend. When you're spending $300,000 a month, that actually was a big challenge for us to get up to 2.5 and we are improving it. But basically that means if I'm spending, you know, $300,000 on ads, I'm making like $750,000 in sales. Okay. Make sense? Yep. And that is run by my sister Rose, who is incredibly smart. She's my CMO, I guess for lack of a better label, but we have a very small team because it's low ticket. And so we don't have a lot of things we need people to do. Like people see a course, buy a course, we make sure they get the course. Yeah. That's it. And so we have a very lean team. I used to have a really big team and I kind of burnt myself out with a big team. So we have a very tight team, we have a great team culture. I think there's like eight people, maybe nine. So it's pretty small. Some of them are part time. It's very small. Okay. And it's good. That's how I like it. Yeah. Let's talk about what goes into getting your low ticket out there in the way that you're saying. So obviously these are really big sales that we're talking about. This is not normal. It's not. It could be. You mean eight figures with low tickets? It could be, but this is not normally because I've been in this industry for so long. It's not normal. It's really not. Yeah. I don't anyone really that's doing it. It's actually been hard for me from a mentorship standpoint. But that's why I have to do so much experimentation is because there's not really someone who's walked ahead to be like, Oh, this is what works. I actually get a lot of inspiration from e-commerce bros. Like the guys who are doing e-commerce stuff, they're kind of in the business mind. Is that slow ticket? It's what I'm in right now. It's like, yeah, true. Yeah. Low ticket and I need so many eyeballs in order to sell my product every single month. Yeah. It's a lot, but it's amazing. The volume is staggering. The volume is staggering. Yeah. Which that's what you're in. And that's why this is exciting because there's so much you guys can learn who are in high ticket as well from this low volume conversation that we're having because if you can convert, if you can get these eyeballs and convert to, I mean, there's so many things you can use on the high ticket. But with that said, let's talk about what has gone into building the infrastructure, like the funnels that get them to convert at the rate you are. So let's talk about your conversion rate. And then let's talk about what it's looked like to kind of build that funnel out and what's gone into that. Yeah. So what I think is important to remind people is that I've been doing this for a while. And so like I really tell people, give yourself grace and what's a while. So I've been in business in general for 13 years. I made the pivot from high ticket, which was my world for a decade. Okay. Low ticket about like coaching or yeah, high ticket coaching, group coaching, very classic classic business coaching, classic like they would get on a webinar and then they would close out on the webinar. Like it was very classic high ticket coaching. Did that for a very long time. And I would sell at prices anywhere from like 3000 to 72,000 depending on the pretty good. Or I was doing, I was doing a million over a million dollars every year for three years in a row doing that. So I scaled up to seven figures, maintained that I think was like 1.3 very steadily for three years. Okay. Did you feel stuck there? I was definitely plateaued. I was making almost down to the penny the same for three years in a row. So it was like also like a mindset plateau too. Gosh, what made you go to low ticket? Yeah. Yeah. Well, let me tell you, I got pregnant. My world is like flipped right now. Yeah. So I got two tenants and Ellie was very much planned, very much wanted, but the thing I didn't quite think through was a maternity leave because I have all these clients. I'm on these zoom calls all the time. I'm at these meetings all the time. And I just had this realization that I cannot be the present mama that I want to be if I don't like make a pivot, if I don't change. And so when I pivoted to low and again, like four months later, I kind of like got divorced, which was unexpected. That was a whole nother thing, which I'm happy to talk about at another time. That's part two. Yeah, part two. But like that was even more motivation. But I realized like I need to get off these zoom calls. I can't, I don't want to put Ellie in a daycare. I want to be with her. And so when I made the decision to pivot, I wasn't even trying to get back up to seven figures with low ticket. I was just trying to like figure out what my monthly bills were and see if I could do that. So I'm like, okay, if my monthly bills are $15,000 a month or whatever they were back in 2022, can I make $15,000 a month with low ticket? And I pivoted and you know, you have your expected dip when you're because I just like hardcore like, you just cut it off. I just cut it off. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I was like, it's what was it? I think it was like July and my baby was due in August. So it was like, shit, I got off the pot. Like I was about to have a baby. And so, you know, there was the expected dip in my revenue for like two months, I think it was. But then something happened and it just clicked for me right away. And I think what it was was all the people who had followed me, because I had a little bit of a Facebook group audience. I didn't have an audience anywhere else, but just in my Facebook group, I had a little bit of an audience. And following four business coaching. And you were going on, like the following was like you were going on and just teaching business. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Specifically like how to get clients. That was like one problem that I was solving for people. Okay. And there was all these people who had been learning from me and how to get clients, but hadn't been able to afford the higher ticket stuff. So I got a few months where I made more than I had expected in low ticket because of the low hanging fruit. You hadn't touched that audience yet. So they were ready to buy. And that was such a gift because it gave me a lot of encouragement and proved the model, which I then needed when I stepped out of my low hanging fruit and into the cold frontier of like properly scaling a low ticket business where it's like, I just did as much work for a $27 sale as I used to do for a $72,000 sale. And a lot of people who are on high ticket, trying to make that transfer, don't realize that at first you will do as much work for a high ticket sale, for a low ticket sale. It makes no sense. But eventually I'm at the point now, where I'm pulling in like over $30,000 in cash every single day consistently, all low ticket with no delivery. I could have never done that back when I was only doing high ticket. So eventually it's worth it. Because you're talking about the system that you had to set up is so in depth to be able to do that in order to now function without having all of that. Exactly. And it just takes a hot second to set up. And so if you are expecting it to take a hot second, if you're kind of believing stuff you see online where it's like, I did it in 10 seconds, like your expectations are not correctly set. So then you think it's not working. Actually, it's working. You're just going to see the fruits of it six months down the road. So to the person at home who this is like a new conversation or fairly new, or they understand it, like, but were you the person like going to the mastermind and setting this up yourself? Or did you have to hire someone? What was the cost of like the setup? Just to set up like the actual text. Yeah, it's actually really inexpensive. I use a company where I'm very great partners with them, very great friends with them, have been since like 2014, a very small company called Samcart. And Samcart, I think it's really inexpensive. When I signed up back in the day, I think it was like $25 a month. It might be a little bit more now because that was, you know, 2014, but it's inexpensive. It's a very inexpensive software. And what they do is that's the platform I build my checkout pages on, and really like my funnel on. And Samcart is built with conversions in mind. So my overall conversion rate across all my pages across my cold traffic is 6%. The average industry average is like one to 2%. In case people didn't know. So that's like six times like three to six times better than the industry average. And some of my Samcart pages convert as high as 25%. Meaning if I have 100 people go to a checkout page, the average person might get one sale. I'll get anywhere from six to 25 sales. And so the thing that Samcart does best is they understand how to make a cold visitor become an eager impulse buyer. Okay. And when you're in the low ticket world, that's what you need. So there's a thousand little things that they do. And it's not a big thing. So if you look at it and you know, you don't know what you're looking for, it might seem similar to other platforms, but there's a thousand little details that they add in there that all stack up and create that overarching 6% conversion rate. And when you're in the low ticket game, it's like a game like I told you, it's like a game of like millimeters, like very tiny, like it's not even a game inches, it's very, very tiny, like centimeters, I don't know, just like really tiny. Yeah. And you win the low ticket game by stacking these little tiny attention to detail. And Samcart makes it very easy to do that, which is why I love them. Yeah. Okay. So that's what I was just going to ask for anyone listening. They're like, okay, but is she doing something special on there? So when you are on Samcart, is it like giving you like steps that tell you exactly how to set these pages up to convert it? Yes. And the little things that they add on there help a lot. Like they might add, so for example, like the way that they set up the order bumps, so in case anyone doesn't know what an order bump is, it's a way to literally bump up your order total. So I might have a course for $27 and I might offer you the worksheets for an extra $27. So I take my order total, which only would have been $27. And now I've like doubled my order total. I with Samcart build out these order bumps to the point where I'll take a $24 order and I'll turn it into a $400 order. And it's the same customer. So whereas one person might get $24, I know how to get $400 out of that customer. And that's really that little thing right there is one of the ways I've been able to do what you said, which is like not normal, which is scale up to an eight-figure business with low ticket. It's these little, one of the many ways, but is the order bumps. And Samcart makes it really easy to do it in the way that they lay out the order bumps, makes it really enticing to the customer. They also make it very easy to integrate with this little thing that like pops up and it's like so-and-so just bought. You probably have it on your website for Glossy where it's like, so-and-so just bought this product. Like little things like that all in combination together. And with the way they lay it out and the way that where they put the checkout page versus where they put the, what you get information, like all of these little things, I didn't appreciate it when I started it with Samcart back in 2014. Cause you know, I'm new, I don't know the difference, but over time as I've gained mastery, I've learned to really appreciate the nuances in the way they set it up. And most important, it's very easy. Like anyone can get on there and do it. It's, I people got blessed. I'm there in their seventies who are like building their course for the first time, building their product for the first time, they get on there and they're doing really well with Samcart. So it's very, like it's not techy. And so if you're tech challenge, like it's very doable. I love that. I should work for Samcart. I don't know. I'm like pitching up the talent. Yeah, I'm like, I hope they absolutely are paying you for this right. I just love them. And I'm really good friends with Brian, the guy that founded it. Like they're just good people too. That's the other thing. Like they're good people at Samcart, which I like. We'll just send them this clip and they can, they can send you a check. Yeah. Okay. That is really, really exciting. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business with Brevo. You can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations, effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about, but then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where aura frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, aura frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video. Just download the aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your aura frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting aura frames.com to get $35 off aura's bestselling Carver Mat frames named number one by wire cutter by using promo code earn at checkout. That's A U R A frames dot com promo code earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout terms and conditions apply. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about from what customers see to what they don't see like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U S with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www Northwest registered agent.com forward slash paid earn. So let's talk about when you go to build out your like your your sales script, like your when sorry your copy. Yeah, why is this word failing? How are you viewing copy? Are you like, let's talk a little bit about that for the person who's like, I really want to do this. What does copy look like? Yeah, that's a really good question. I actually believe in the low ticket world, the copy makes or breaks it actually launched a course on copy. And the name of the course is like words into money because what never ceases to amaze me is in the low ticket space, you can literally turn words into money, you read pixels that I write on a screen, and the word you then turn into pixels in my bank account. Yeah, I'm just so fascinated with that because I'm from the high ticket world, right, where I'm used to having to work harder to make a sale where you have to have a DM conversation or you have to have a phone conversation or a zoom conversation. And so the fact that if you set up your copy the right way, you literally get sales from it. And that's all you had to do was write words on a check out page and people then read and then they purchase from you because of the words you wrote, that blows my mind. Having said that, most people do not do their copy the right way. And so they don't get sales. And so I spend all day long with my students like looking at their check out pages and looking at what they're doing. And the number that there's two main reasons why people's copy doesn't sell well. And the first is people aren't clear on what they're going to get. And people aren't clear on why they should buy it now. And so when I and it seems basic, but really think about the average new person who's just getting started, they actually don't specify like what you're really going to get. And then you don't create any urgency in the copy for why you should get it now. So those are the two things that when it comes to copy, make sure it's extremely clear what they're going to get and not just the features like 10 videos and seven audio things. It's like what you're going to get in terms of the benefit and results you're going to get when you're done with this product and then why you need to get it now. They don't have the urgency they won't buy. Okay, now let's talk about what meat is inside of a low ticket offer. Yeah, I actually started in low ticket offers years ago. One of my it was, well, it wasn't even necessarily low to start was a membership. So it was like, we tested, you know, $89 a month, $79 a month, $59 a month. And we actually found with the memberships, like less was more inside of membership. 100%. I think people always overestimate what they're giving, especially in a low ticket offer, they kind of like give everything away. Yeah, it's kind of like the lower ticket offer people think I don't, I don't know, because it's like an intro offer normally, they feel like they have to give so much value. And that actually we have found with our customer, like makes them feel overwhelmed exactly and they never complete it. So they feel bad and they never come back. I would love for you to break down some of your most popular offers. Yeah, exactly what's in there, what your modules look like, how long they are, what are they getting? Yeah, I'd be super happy to your start off by saying you're absolutely right. I learned a graphic design, so I just go for graphic design. I learned that good design isn't when nothing more can be added. It's when nothing more can be taken away. Same thing. Yeah, yeah, it's the same thing with low ticket. Like how can you give that customer the result you promised in as little videos as possible? Interesting. In as little content as possible. But here's the key. What you promise has to be very specific. And so the big mistake that people make with low ticket offers is the call it something like the Academy or the growth sprint, something that doesn't like it's a those are good for high tickets. But you want one very specific problem. So one of my popular ones right now, I just launched I think two months ago, but it's doing really well. It's kind of like I have like ones that are just like viral. That's like that's a viral one. It's called selling with Instagram stories. Guess what you're going to learn in a course called selling with Instagram stories. I just sell on Instagram stories. And that's the point. Yeah, my good, my most popular products are the ones that tell you exactly what I'm going to teach you. And it's very specific. It's not how to make money. It's not even how to make money on Instagram. It's specifically how to get more sales with your Instagram stories. That's actually really specific when you think about that's like exactly what I want right now. And so and that's and that this is what's happening when everybody hears about I want to learn that. Yeah, and I don't want to get a wrong. And so as you go in that, I think it's like 11 videos, if that and each video might be seven minutes long. It also includes some templates of my my best biggest money making stories are the ones that I've done. And I package all that up and sell it for $27. So it's not expensive. Yeah. What I do like is there's additional things that you can buy to help you after you've bought the  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, group where everyone can comment on each other's stuff and goose each other's stuff and engage with other people's stuff. That thing is popping all day long 24-7 and it's a really good community, which is also another upsell to do. I don't do much for it. It's student-led. They just put their links in. Everybody encourages each other. It's easy. That would be one. That's like $97. That will automatically take a $27 order and turn it into an order that's over $100. Our average percentage of people that take that, it's called a take rate, is 60%. Over half the people who buy the $27 thing will also buy the $97 thing. That makes sense. Around 11 videos, I've seen some modules on some people that are like three minutes long and that feels great too. Exactly. Especially now that pretty much everyone's taken a course. Pretty much everyone's taken a bad course. What we really need to do is think about what makes a bad course a bad course and how do we do the opposite of that? What's a bad course? It's a thousand modules long. It's the person droning on and on, not getting to the point. It's not starting with the best stuff first. Even the videos that I put, how I outline the course is really important. I give the best stuff first. If people's attention rate is so bad, if I put the best stuff on video seven, they might not make it to video seven. I know. I'm a half course doer. I get good stuff. That's so smart to just be like, then I don't feel bad. I'm like, no, Maria changed my life in the first three modules. I'm good to go. I didn't even go back and watch it. That's how I've always taken courses. By the way, if you were a course taker, my whole thing is I try to find, okay, and I am too. I really get a ton. Of course, it's good a bad rap, but I get so much value from the courses that I pay for. As long as I pop it open, find one thing to influence my big thing. I'm going to find one thing that will make my money back and more. Every time I take a course, I just look for my one little gold nugget. It's what I call it. I look for my gold nugget and then I get out of there. That's good. I make a ton of money from the things I learned. I take all these terrible courses from these e-combros. God bless them, but they don't know up from down. But I go in there and I'm like, oh, if I did that, I can add an extra $10 per order to every order. That's my gold nugget. Then I'm just done with the course for the rest of it. Yeah. Okay. So low ticket, extremely specific. You're solving one thing. You're solving one specific pain point. So when you're looking for what you want to solve, how are you finding the things that your customers, you know, you're like, oh, I can't wait to share this because this is a pain point. How do you find that and how do you decide the languaging on that? I like that you, Asex, I think we do that really well. Our repeat customer rate is 60%, which is actually like industry average is 15 to 30%. So we know. That's good. Yeah, it is good. I think I'm really proud of that because we put a lot of work into making good courses and then courses that people want to buy like over and over again. Yeah. And it's just good business, right? Like if they, you know, but how we do that is our customers, and I know it's so basic, but this is the truth. Our customers tell us what they want. Yeah. They just tell us. And I have always had like, I think some people I see in my space where they're like, oh, they're always talking bad about their customers and they're always talking down to their customers and they're always like, um, like, oh, customers are never satisfied. Jeff Bezos of all people said it best. He's like, the good news is the customer is never satisfied. So we can always have more problems to solve for them. And that's been my attitude. And so my customers tell me what they are needing from me. And what I kind of do, it's almost like a, like an intuition, but like, I just pay attention to all the comments and all the posts and all the things. And I get my finger on the pulse for like what they really want to know. Like I'm about to hit 100,000 subscribers on YouTube. I did it in six months with no editors, no, like literally nothing, just a webcam in my videos. And people want to know how I did that. And they've been talking about that a lot on all the different platforms. And so I know that that's going to be one of my next courses is something about how I grew from zero to 100,000 with a webcam on YouTube. So I just, but it's just like literally my finger on the pulse listening to what my people are saying. And I know that's like the most basic answer, but that's the truth. Like I listen to my customers, they tell me what they want. Sometimes that means I talk about things I'm not really interested in. Like the copywriting course sold like a mother. It did so well, but that one was really tedious for me to teach. Like really under, like taking, you had to break down what I do. Exactly. What do I do? What do I do? Exactly. And so it was very tedious. It was very time consuming to make a course like that, but it did so well. It's made us probably close to a million dollars, just that one course alone. And it's just me listening to what people want it. Like they really need to help with their copy and I'm procrastinating on it for like two years. And I was like, all right, I gotta, I gotta do this. Yeah. So for anybody listening, because me right now, I'm, I'm thinking of all the things that like I can talk on, I could create on. And if I'm like, so I would love to create a couple of small courses. Did you ever have to be like, okay, what am I good at and get actually get better at them before you created the course and like get more information? Like just so people feel a little more empowered or are you just like, no, I was a walking fucking vault of everything. No, I really wasn't. Like I think those of us who have been in this, like if you, if you've been in this space for a little bit, you kind of have some sense of like what people come to you for advice on over and over again. But I have people who are brand new. Like they're the new kids on the block. They haven't taught anything. They haven't had even had like one customer yet. Like I work with the newest of the new people. And what I tell them is what do your friends come to you for advice on? Like what are your friends asking you for help on? Because that's a sign, essentially your version of your marketplace talking to you. So one of my students, she was brand new. She didn't have a following. She didn't have anything, but her friends were coming to her for advice on how to plan kids birthday parties on a budget. Cause she was so good at throwing birthday party and she would do these amazing things for like $100 or less, which is like kind of hard to do for birthday parties. Right? Like the birthday writers in particular have gotten so like out of control, but she threw really good on theme birthday parties for less than $100. I'm like, there's it. That's your product. It's how to throw a kids birthday party. That's amazing for less than $100. Super specific. It did super well. So you started running ads to it and she did. I think it was like $2,000 in her first month. I think it was like $17,000 in her second month. And then like, I think she, again, I have to go back and look at her stats, but she had like a $30,000 a month and I didn't, I haven't heard from her like in a month or two. So I'm not sure what she's at now, but like she's too busy to be posting in the group right now. I'm so sorry. She's like, thanks, Bob. And that's great. That's great. Yeah. That's my goal. I want to show you what to do, help you get there. Really? And then never hear from you again. Cause you're too rich. I'd hope you're off on an island somewhere. That's my goal. That's my goal. Yeah. Okay. I love that. Let's actually talk about that specifically. And maybe you know, if you can answer this. So that's very specific for her. What did her content start to look like? What did her like many chat flow start to look like? Well, she didn't have an audience at all. So we actually started her with $5 a day ads. So that's a big, You're starting with ads right away. That's a big thing that we do that's very different with a lot of our students is we empower our students to start running ads right away. Okay. We feel that there's a lot of limiting beliefs around advertising. We feel there's a lot of fears. There is even I have it. Especially in women. That's something unfortunate. I work with a lot of men and I work with a lot of women. Yeah. It's something in particular that I noticed that my guys are more gung-ho in the ads. My girls need some like TLC. They need a little bit of encouragement to just pull the trigger on the ads. It's very normal. I don't know why, but like it's just something I see over and over again. And so we feel Rose always says like, I think she goes something like the worst way to run ads is to never do it at all. Something like that, like, you know, something like that. So good. And so we empower we really want our students to know that like you can run five dollars a day ads, which is not like pretty much anyone's, but you know, stop spending money on coffee, cancel a couple subscriptions. You can clear up that. And then running and like our students will get sales within 24 hours, 48 hours after turning their ads on, which is so motivating. It's the momentum that they need to keep going. A lot of our students do organic. You definitely don't have to do ads. But if you don't really have an audience and you or maybe some people don't even want to like some people just run ads because they don't want to be creating a ton of content. Yeah. And so that particular students started running ads right away. But to answer your question, which I know a lot of people don't run ads and they do do organic. I mean, half of my money comes from organic. So I'm very organic too. We do very simple Instagram content. It basically the ones that make us money will be footage of me doing something like on my computer or on my phone or just like something like this. And then it would be like a little like a little hook, right? Like just a little like something to catch attention, stop the scroll and then a very long caption. And then at the end is like a little like CTA or like a little call to action to like it might be something like comment the word start if you're ready to get started. And then when they comment start, they're going to automatically get DM'd a link to my checkout page, not my landing page, my checkout page. That's a big difference, right? Where they can enter their credit card information in and then I'll make a sale from that. So when you say get ready to get started, was that content so specific around like let's talk about your making money with stories? Yes. Is that like your caption was specifically about getting over the pain points of making money with stories and then start now to that checkout page. That's a really good question. So I got asked something similar on a different podcast and it helped me realize that I have never once pitched like very rarely, but basically never once pitched an actual course in my content. So I'll never say something like you should get my course selling with Instagram stories, which is pretty like, and I didn't even realize that I'd never done that. What he said that I did, I thought it was a really good summary is he never, he's like, you will never say go buy the tickets to Hawaii. You just talk about how great Hawaii is. And I think that that's, that's what I do. So to answer your question, I would never say like comment star, if you want to get access to my course selling with Instagram stories. What I will do is talk about how much money people can make from Instagram stories and how in some cases you can actually make more money from your Instagram stories than your Instagram reels, which a lot of people don't know. A lot of people don't know that. And I'll talk about how a lot of people, and this is very true. They are, Instagram stories is such a gold mine and they're not using that gold mine. Very few people are properly scooping the gold out of Instagram stories. And so I'll just talk about that and I'll explain maybe a little bit of why, like an Instagram story might make you more money. And in case you're curious, it's because when someone clicks on a story, they're being very intentional with that little click. They're reaching out to you versus reels are being served to them. So one is like proactive and one is passive. And so that's why your buyers are more likely to be your stories than your reels. So all of that might be in the caption and then it'll be like, comment ready. If you're ready to get started making money with Instagram stories, they comment ready and then that'll take them to the checkout page. Does that make sense? Okay. It's a lot. Yeah. No, it's not, it's not a lot because my brain is, is, is tracking. I mean, it is a lot for anybody listening, but you are, I'm just trying to get people to understand now how the content is going to be set up, right? To go to either specific, like a specific landing page for a specific course. Correct? Yeah. Is that what you're saying? Yes. So let's talk about, um, for anybody listening to how it all goes together. I want to now get into Maria's content planning strategy. So let's go into Maria's next week that you just planned. And I would love for you to tell us like what, you know, maybe, maybe you could just pick one post that you've planned to kind of tell us, even though you do four posts a day, I do four posts a day, which I do want to talk about how that is because you just kind of blew my mind and made it seem much easier. It is. That's the thing I do best. I make everything seem much easier than it feels. And it actually is. If I were to only let there be one message that I got there, it's all of this is so much easier than you think it really is. Yeah. Well, that's what I'm going to take from this because I need it to be easier for myself. I have a mantra that I've said for many years, which is like, if it's not easy, I'm not doing it. And that only became more true when I'm like in the middle of potty training, a three year old, like it has to be easy. I can't, I'm that that's the heart in my life. The business of just can't be hard because I'm in the thick of it with a three year old. So it has to be easy and it gets to be easy when we decide it gets to be easy. Yeah. Well, I'm going to take this while, while I build Glossy because I just want something else just really running without a lot of the things, you know, the way our business is set up, like a lot of it requires time, like a lot of time. So I would love to move. Yeah, perfect. So you heard it here, everyone. You're going to move on. Moving over. Um, okay. So let's take actually, let's do that first because you, you share it with me pretty quickly about, you know, growing from 300 K to six, our K. And obviously we talked about how the beginning eyeballs solve everything. And I do know that if I can just get more eyeballs to a lot of our landing pages, that that's going to be a lot easier. Yeah. So with that said, you're like, well, I post four times a day and I'm like, oh, shit. Okay. Well, I met one to maybe two. That kind of feels like a lot. Let's talk about the four posts a day. And then we're going to talk about just kind of the strategy behind that content and what it goes through. Yeah. And I'll say, I'll say this, like I'm, I'm going to break down the four posts that I do, but I really want people to know that I worked up to that one post at a time. Meaning at first all I did was one real every day and I was very consistent and I never missed it. And so I think it's very important that people know that the thing that hurts you more than anything else is starting posting and then stopping posting the inconsistency hurts your accounts algorithm more than anything else. And so think about like, if we missed a mortgage payment or something, like a dings or credit score, you don't want to miss an upload schedule. And so it's, we build up to the quantity after we've built the consistency. And so I tell people, like, if you feel that you can only do one post a week, but you can do one post a week consistently, start there and very, very gradually build up, because if you go from zero to four posts a day for two weeks and then you stop completely, that's the worst thing that you could do it. So just saying that, because sometimes people will hear a post a day, they'll go to post four posts a day and then they actually hurt their account more. So just FYI consistency is the most important thing. Love. Once you've done that, so these are the four posts a day and they work super well. We've done so many experiments with it and always we come back to this schedule and this four. We do a reel at 7 a.m. Everything that I PST, which would be 10 a.m. EST. We've tested times that one works the best. And then we do a nurture carousel or a CTA carousel at noon. And the nurture carousels are like vulnerable carousels. It's really your story, kind of like transformation. Yeah. Yeah. My story, you know, it might be things I'm going through. It might be like my, I look for my like, what are moments where I felt emotional, like an emotion and it could be a good emotion. It could be a sad emotion. It could be a heartbreak emotion. Just what's a moment to make them feel. Yeah. Okay. And the call to action. Yes. A many chat call to action. Many chat call to action. Exactly. And then at 3 p.m. I do like a selfie, what I call a selfie reel, which is me literally like doing a video selfie of myself sharing usually it's something I've learned over the years, like a lesson that I've learned. And then 5 p.m. is what we call studio reel, which is might be a clip from a podcast. It might be just a more professional or stage on stage. Me on stage. Exactly. Yeah. We've tested many different kinds of posts and kinds of content at times of day and it always comes back to 7 a.m. 12 p.m. 3 p.m. 5 p.m. One carousel, three reels. Great. This is what you're going to see. Yeah. Very excited. And you work like, the thing that you will find is like, it's way easier than you think, like it does. I know that it sounds very overwhelming. And if you had told Maria even a year ago, post four times a day, I probably would have fainted, but I can't even be going to describe to you the acclimation process that happened. Like it's, we don't even think about it. It just happens now. It's just done. Okay. Let's talk about that real quick then. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award-winning team of over a hundred design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient. Always tailored to you. Three ways to shop. One perfect fit. Whether you want to DIY, have it all done for you or your summer in between. Choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees. And there's zero pressure. From blackout and motorized options to classic shutters, blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code, earn at checkout, limited time offer, rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stops thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. Choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in to create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard in 2026. Stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Here you're first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm going to share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bra, that connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle bra let and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery, it's soft, it's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows, that's earn your happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. So I know I was like, okay, how are you doing that? Who's on the team? So we have Julia. And I want you to just explain what Julia does, what you send. Yes. And then a little bit of the training process. Yes. Let's start there. So I got to 300,000 by myself with one real and one carousel. So I was able to do two posts a day all by myself, making everything, recording the B-roll, doing all by myself, just to provide like a. Editing. Editing all of it by myself. I was also, you know, I had a one year old at the time or two year old at the time. So like that I feel pretty much anyone can do to a day pretty consistently. At least I was able to. Okay. What I want to do is remove the expectation that you have to have a content assistant in order to see growth on Instagram. Yeah. Yeah. But if you do want an assistant, it's amazing. I highly recommend it. And so Julia came on board in January. So almost a year now and she helps me repurpose a lot of content. So a lot of what goes out on Instagram has already been set, whether in a YouTube video, whether in a carousel that I put out there at some point, a lot of my content has already been set. And for those of us who have been in it for a while, like that's, we all have a lot of content that we already created. So it's nice to have it repurposed. The other two things that I really appreciate about what Julia does is she films footage of me. So like me doing B roll, I used to do that by myself or do it with a tripod or get like a, my sister to do it. Um, if you have an Instagram husband, like that's helpful too. Like a boyfriend to just do it. That's very helpful. Um, but she brought consistency to the B roll, like just to the filming in general, which was really nice and it was reliable and I could count on it. And that was very helpful. Um, and then the other thing that she does is she'll take the words that I write, maybe in a notes app, like the vulnerable stories, or even like sometimes I just like do voice memos and she'll turn that into content for me. So what that does is it removes the literal, a lot of the literal content creation off my plate. And so all I have to do is think about like, well, what do I want it to say and how would I want people to feel when they read it? Um, and so it puts me in a more of a create, like the, the idea creation versus that like actual execution, which can be a little tedious. Okay. And title is content assistant, content assistant. Yeah. So helping you with that. How many hours a week would you say that you are using? I think it really depends. It's probably pretty damn close to 40. Probably some, yeah, some months is more, some weeks is more. Yeah. Yeah. Julia is behind the camera right now. Yeah. Yeah. You're, yeah. Yeah. Julia's in the room with us. So you're creating content, Julia, like you, this is like all day, you're getting those posts out. Okay. So she's, um, now let's talk about how that's laid out. Are you always a week ahead? Two weeks ahead, 30 days ahead. What does that look like? No, we are, we try to get a week ahead. Yeah. No, I actually think this is really important to hear because we used to try to work 30 days out. What is this? You're such a stupid. No, I don't think you should. Yeah. I think everything feels old. My gosh. And that's how sometimes you'll, you'll see these big social media accounts where like they post something clearly like scheduled that was scheduled like way. And it's not like current at all. And sometimes it's like awkward. Like I've seen social media posts where like it's like, like, you know, news current events will happen and it like it's in bad taste or bad timing. Yes. It's not even meant to be. It just was scheduled way ahead. Also, like if you're trying to schedule 30 days out in advance and a kind of content flops, now you either have to go back and optimize, which we're human. We're not likely to do. So what people are more likely to do is just let the shitty content right out to the end of the 30 days. But 30 days is a long period of time where you could get a lot of content and a lot of followers if you were making better, you know, better quality. Yeah. So we really try to get a week out. The reality is a lot of days. It's like a day ahead. Oh, this is great to hear though. Yeah. We're not as people think we're so much more organized with our content than we are. We're not organized. We're just very consistent. That's the difference is like if me and Julia need to be texting each other at like 10 30 at night to get something out for the next day, we will do that. So like our upload schedules are non-negotiable no matter what's going on either like even if like she's sick, I have to do it then. Like it's non-negotiable. What goes out is four posted day every day. I don't care what's going on in the world. That has to get done. That's the non-negotiable. But how it happens is not the glamorous organized thing people think it is. How do you set your non-negotiables? I've recently come up with some things where I'm like, um, like it. I don't have a lot. I really have a baby. So like my non-negotiable is spending as much time with her as possible. Yeah. And so I spend 80 to 90% of my time with Ellie. I actually don't work a lot. That's the thing that really has been empowering with my low ticket business is that like once the sale is made, I don't have to do any delivery for it. Right. It's just, so now that has happened because you worked so hard on the systems. Oh yeah. I built the system and the maintenance of that system and really like 80 to 90% of my work is just content. My job description is basically content creator. That's how I think of myself. Because you've already got, you guys, this is a beautiful thing about low ticket, like what you're doing is you have the thing you're just, all your content is going towards just sale. I built it and I tell people, I'm very like, very straightforward about it. It is so much work and it will feel like a waste of time because every so often a $27 sale will trickle through and you're like, well, I just worked 40 hours on this damn thing and I got $127 sale. It will not feel like good business sense at first to build it. But now I have this unbelievable ecosystem of products and ecosystem of funnels and ecosystems of traffic. And then the, the, all I do is back to what we were talking about with eyeballs. All I do is shove eyeballs down the train tracks for lack of a better word and everything else is done and handled and automated and done. Yeah, totally. So you're, you're technically, you have set up like Rodeo drive and you have so many shops along the way, a low ticket Rodeo, very, very low ticket Rodeo, like the Walmart Rodeo. Yeah, it's Walmart Rodeo. Yeah. But quality stuff. Yeah. And you literally are just sending people down that road and they can go in and shop however they want, but it took you a long time to build. Yeah. That structure. And every so often. Yeah. Every so often a storefront will fall off on, I gotta like, you know, like every, like some of our, like what I will say as you mentioned, like good stuff, it is, or my rule of thumb is, is two things. One, every product has to be better than the last. So we have to top the quality of the product. So we had a good product and next one has to be a great product. And it was great. Now it has to be excellent. And then like every product has to be better than the last. That way we ensure like quality control when you're launching low ticket. And then the other thing is the other rule is like, if we launch something for $30, we need to know that we could have charged at least $300 for it and like gotten it. Like not just like, Oh, the value was $30,000. Like no, literally this is so good. Fair market value was $300 and we could have made consistent sales at that, but we're going to sell it for 30. And so then when people buy, that's how we get our repeat customers. Because they buy something expecting a cheap $30 course and they get the equivalent of a 300 or even some of our courses, like $3,000 of like actual true what we could have charged. And then that makes them loyal to us for life. And so that is a lot of work to your point. Like it's work to get that built up. We update our courses every so often. So it's, I used to use the word passive income and I still like, I still think it's fairly accurate, but I found a new term that I like even better, which is leverage income. It's like leverage income where like you, you have all this leverage where, you know, I woke up this morning and like had made, I don't know, 30, 40 sales throughout the night. Like that feels very hands off to me, which is what I really like to just wake up and have a bunch of sales made and know that I don't have to do anything for them. And it's just done. That feels passive to me. It, you know, it's a prize maintenance, but it feels really nice. How many products do you have right now? How many products would you say you could have to start hitting seven figures? Okay. Good question. Great questions. So I think right now I have about 30. I launched 12 this year. Okay. I'm launching 50 next year. 50 new. 50 new. So as a whole, that might be part three. Yeah. I'm like, okay. Yeah. Do you know the Gorin Institute? What's that? Do you know the Gorin Institute? It's like very OG R space marketers. I met one of the guys from there and this was back in February and this is a good color. So that's a part three. Like I'm launching 50 insane products. They're going to be insane. Are you recording them right now? Are you doing them right now? Are they done? No, no, no, like this is 2026. Oh, so your build out is so 50, 50, I'm launching 50 products in 2026. Wow. Okay. Yeah. So more on that. Okay. To hit seven figures though, it's a really good you ask this question because it's one product. I have taught and myself followed and every one of my students who's made over a million dollars has followed the rule of the five ones, which is you're going to solve one problem for one target market with one product on one platform for one year. So the rule of the five ones, every one of my students who has done that and followed that rule faithfully, not getting distracted, staying focused on that has hit over a million dollars. Wow. It's very hard to say focus and only sell one thing for a year and there's a lot of self sabotage that comes up, but if the students that are able to navigate those waters are coming out with million dollar businesses with just one product, that's what I did. I scaled my one product up to a million dollars. So if you rate ready fire aim by Michael Masterson, he talks about that that stage one growth is zero to a million and it's all about one product. You have to sell only one product to learn every possible angle on marketing and how to properly market that one product. You need that mastery later.  when you go to market a bunch of products. Because it's actually, if you're marketing correctly, it is unbelievably difficult to market multiple products at once. And you don't realize that when you're half-assing, marketing a bunch of little products. But when you properly market a product, it's a full-time job. It is a full-time job. It's seven people's full-time job to market one product properly, with all the different angles and all the different urgencies and all the different markets and everything that you can do to properly market one product, it's a full-time job. And so you realize that when you really get into the mastery of marketing one product. And then you've acquired that mastery, which then you leverage to properly market a bunch of products. So I got to seven figures with one product and I got to eight by launching a ton of products. But that's the order that you're supposed to follow. And that's what I did and that's why I'm successful. And you make everybody follow that. And I make everybody follow that. The rule of five ones is, well, here's the thing. I say, you can break the rule of the five ones, but just know it'll take you longer to get to seven figures. And I mean, you're learning so many lessons on one product. You might as well do that than learn so many lessons on multiple products at once. Yeah, the thing is, and like, attention divided. The thing about like, even making one, like if you're just changing one little thing, right? And you all of a sudden you start getting sales. Well, was it that you took the copy? Was it that you changed the price? Was it that you marketed to this new audience? Like I now have 50 unanswered questions and that's still on that one product. Imagine if I went and did that to my three products. It's chaos. You gotta know what's working and what's not working if you wanna scale it up. You can't do that well when you're new and you don't really have any capital and you don't really have any resources. It's really hard enough to do it with one product when you really do it right. Okay, Maria. So like for someone like me and a lot of people who I run in the circle with, they were higher ticket. We would love a low ticket to support the high ticket. Is that just too opposite of people? Or is it literally like, well, more eyeballs is more eyeballs. What is something you would recommend for people in high ticket? Like I sell a mastermind that really helps people with business that has eight coaches in there. What's a low ticket item you would think of that could help support sell into that? Well, I'll tell you, I just did a talk literally on this exact subject. So high ticket people wanting to bring in low ticket. What does that look like? So it's all very top of mind for me. The first thing that I'll say is typically most people who are low ticket will always be low ticket. People who are high ticket will always be high ticket. Got it. However, that does not mean don't do low ticket. What it means is understand that a lot of your low ticket people will just pay for your ads because my ads pay for themselves and them. Like you have infinite ad spend when you do low ticket because you pay $25 to acquire maybe a $40 low ticket thing but that's paying for your ads. Got it. A small, very, very small percentage will ascend into your higher ticket things. It's less than you think, but if you build out a wide low ticket base, you will have a consistent, reliable, effortless stream of high ticket customers. It's more like I said, it's more than you think, but those other low ticket people will create a lot of goodwill for your brand, will pay for your ads. You'll get a meaningful sense of like helping people who couldn't afford your high ticket thing. So there's all, once you're over a million dollars, that's my first thing. You gotta follow the rule. If you're following Maria's rule of five ones, if you do that, it's very, there's really not a good reason not to, once you've got to properly build up because even just the ability to have limitless ad spend, done. You take $1, you turn it into $2.5, why would you not do that? And like I said, you're in a very high ticket space so you don't need a lot of those low ticket people to ascend but you're sending them at scale for free because those other low ticket people are still being helped, still having their world changed, still getting value from the low ticket thing you offered. But typically for all intents and purposes, your low ticket people are your low ticket people, your high ticket people are your high ticket people, there's a very tiny thread but the low ticket people can pay for that like thread. And but in the advantages, it's like a little, where you have like a factory and they're just like on the factory line. Assembly line. Assembly line, it's a little assembly line where every so often that low ticket person will peel off, ride the assembly line into your high ticket thing. It's all automatic, which is really nice. So for anyone listening who doesn't understand that, are you saying that the low ticket people will give you enough money, like you'll earn income to pay for ads to your high ticket thing? Is that what you're saying? Or explain that? Yes, you can do it that way, where you just like you're, they're covering your acquisition costs but what I'm really saying is, the low ticket people are paying for themselves and let's say 2% of those low ticket people will become high ticket people automatically. I see, I see. And so in that sense, anything that you would have paid to acquire customer, like the high ticket people, sales people, ads, you know, your time and effort creating content, like whatever that is, those are paid, it's paid for by the low ticket people. And then those few, and you can do a lot of different things to get that 2% up, but you will never expect, I see people who are in the high, never expect like 30% of your low ticket people to ascend. That's just, they're totally different demographics, totally different buying behavior, totally different expectations, totally different minds, like places of mindset, but you will get those unicorns that peel off and if you do enough low ticket, you have a consistent stream of unicorns. Does that make sense? If you're doing, you know, 10 low ticket sales a day, it's never gonna be enough, but we're doing like 200 low ticket sales a day and there's plenty to upsell. Do you think it's worth it for people who are in high ticket to do low ticket? Depends on what their goals are. Yeah. I think it depends on, because I think you would make more money faster and sooner, not doing low ticket, but I think long term, you always make more money with low ticket. And Alex Samozzi said it best, he's like, if you have a low ticket business, you can always have a high ticket business later. That's true. And the thing about high ticket is a lot of times on high ticket, your delivery's high. Your energy's... That's exhausting. Yeah, totally. So that's interesting on... I'm just such, yeah, delivery. Yeah. Here's the thing about everything you've told me is, yeah, the work is on the front end, with high ticket, the work is on the back end. On the back end, exactly. And I remember that because I was doing high ticket for so long and you make a sale and you feel a little sick. Yeah, you're like, now I have to deliver. No, no, I gotta deliver, damn it. Yeah, when you look at the way our year is set up and I love it, I love our people so much. But at the same time, it's like you sell, you're getting the income in, and then now you have to deliver. Sometimes those are, now that you're getting in the event space as well, it's like, oh my gosh, what could happen in the world? What could happen, like all of the things? And I'm an introvert. And so for me, I don't care that it's more, like it's work at the front, it's work where I don't have to talk to people. Think about that. I just get to put my headphones in and fiddle around with funnels. That's fun for me. So the work for me is it's a better alignment. And I also really do feel that I'm reaching such a wider base of people. My market is people who are just getting started. They're new, they're very underserved. A lot of people in the business world don't take on people unless you're making more than $10,000 a month because they can't afford a high ticket program unless they're making $10,000 a month or more. But I noticed a gap in the marketplace where there was really good information at an affordable price. And that's where I fit in. And I think that's partially why my business has taken off as fast as it is, is because of that need that I was just sort of accidentally stumbling into three years ago when I was pregnant with Ellie. Well, this is, I mean, when we say we need a part two and three, we really do. We're gonna do like a relationship part. We're gonna do the 50. I really need to know about the 50 products. Well, this is what I told my audience. I'm like, look, I'm gonna do 50 products and either, you know, it will fail and you'll hear about it because I share all my failures or it'll succeed and you'll hear all about it because I will not shut the fuck up about it. Like once I do, if I, when, I'm gonna speak this into reality, when I launch my 50th product in December of 2026, I'm gonna give myself an award. I don't know why. Oh yeah, oh my gosh. But it's gonna be really good. We have a whole plan. I'm not gonna spoil it, but like we have a whole plan. It's not, I don't wanna say anymore, but it's all, it's very realistic. Okay, so we've got YouTube. How you grew your YouTube. That's coming back for part two. That's the relationship and are the relationship one, which I think is gonna be so good. And we also need to talk about that, the 50 products. So is there anything else that you wanna share with anyone about this? I would tell people go to my free content and actually implement what I teach in my free content. People have made, I get DMs saying like, I made $40,000 from your free content. Like I put out business tutorials. I put out marketing tutorials. And so don't feel pressure to buy the core. I always say like, go consume my free content and then use the money that I helped you make with the free content to go buy my courses. Yeah, and the courses are cheap, guys. Yeah, also $27. So it was like really cheap. So like. I like to think they're really good. Yeah. Yeah, totally. Well, I've been in some of your funnels and all I wanna do is buy things. That's good. Someone called it crack cocaine. I don't know if we can say that on camera, but they call it like crack cocaine. It is, it's so bad, it's good. They'll have like 17 pages of my courses, not 17 courses, 17 pages in the Kajabi library of my courses. That's when you know you have a lot. Yeah, well, you're giving really bite-sized things that people can implement right away. And I think that's why people are, that's why they're winning is it's also, I think that's a key to really great number one, like content, but also courses is can they go and implement something right away and feel a win? And get a win. Yeah. Get a win. Make the need to feel a win. Like I want, we always say like, we judge the success of our courses not by how much money they make us, but how many testimonials we get within a day or two of launching the course. Because what that tells us is in a day or two, someone bought the course, implemented it and made money. And so we judge the success of a course by how fast we're getting money results from it. Mm, yeah. Okay, well, I love this. I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you so much for having me. This is such a pleasure. Oh my gosh, we're gonna link everything up in the show notes below for you. I'm gonna show you where you can follow her, where you can get her courses. Literally everything is below you guys, but make sure you go follow her on Instagram with your handle. I just at Maria.went. Silent D. And we also have that down there. Yeah. But thank you so much again for coming on. You're just a wealth of knowledge. I'm just, I'm gonna be so excited that I claimed it here of all the things that are happening when you're heading over a million followers this next year. It's gonna be great with 50 products out. Thank you. Yeah, let's speak that into reality. It's happening. Thank you so much. Yes, thank you. All right guys, until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.

=== FILE: Turn “Just Curious” DMs Into Paying Clients with Julie Cyvonne, Riley & Kaylie Miller [KiBWmTCxjmc].txt ===

 it doesn't matter who you think you are, this is going to be a little controversial, but if people aren't seeing you that way, it's really important for you to open your eyes and realize, why aren't they? Like, I think that I'm so nice, but clearly there is a disconnect in how I'm presenting, so maybe I should clean that up. Mike, drop, I want to make sure people really caught that. People think, well, I know who I am, and that's all that matters. Nope, in the real effing world, what matters if you want to get somewhere is how people perceive you. We get these messages all the time from people who are like, both of you are so loving, even though we have different beliefs than you, and we always are saying, choose love over hate. Someone can totally hate us for what we stand for, but we're still going to choose to love them. And I would say the two of you will be so successful because people want a great business, they want to make a ton of money, and they forget that we're all human at the core. Julie, welcome back on the show. We have you on the Earn Your Happy Podcast and the Chris Harder Show. I'm excited we get to interview you together again. It's almost like you've become our resident psychedelic expert of this play. It's been six months since you've been on the show, and it's like, oh, let's check in and see what psychedelics could do for us six months later now. No, but all joking aside, in the past six months, I know you've been working really hard on your business because you're not just a psychedelic expert, but you're an entrepreneur. So kind of paint the picture for us. In the past six months, what's changed in your business? What are some wins? What's given you some momentum? Kind of get us up to speed. What's changed is that I'm having more open and honest conversations. I feel because you two were able to facilitate a very open and desigmatizing conversation around psychedelics. So people who may have been curious or were hearing it for the first time weren't scared. They weren't freaked out. They were really open to what it could do. They were open to what it could do for them. Interesting. And I really enjoy getting to speak to all those people in the DMs and having them sign up for programs. And it just makes my heart so happy because truly my intention in being here and speaking with you guys is to bring the power of microdosing to a million people. So wait, this is really cool. I want to expand what you just said. Without giving away a DM or something, obviously, you said you've been having way more open conversations. Give us an example. Oh, the one that comes to mind is a woman reached out to me on behalf of her husband who is actually a physician, an ER physician. And he was looking for a way to manage his ADHD sometimes in a different way because for many people who are on Adderall, they know that that can lead to anger. It can lead to dipping lower than you felt in kind of the half-life off period. It can make you snappy. And honestly, for a lot of people, it can become a bit of a crutch and he wanted to be able to get off of that. And so that was a conversation where I thought, this is a man who's out there saving lives. Let's help him in a way that is clean, clear, sustainable, and a true solution to ADHD versus just management. And is it working for him? Yes. See, this is why we want to have these conversations. I would have never known that as a solution to Adderall, that a doctor would come and say, hey, I need a solution. I don't like what Adderall does. Let me try this and that it's working. And these are the kind of conversations, I think, that make people like me that know very little about this say, maybe there's something here. So something that I have observed about you because you've now been to our house twice for VIP weekends and we get to spend two days at a time with you, which is so much fun. And then I get to go see what changes kind of in your life and in your business. And it's so crazy because I already feel such a difference in you and your presence and how you show up and on social as well, which I'm so excited about. And things take time. Like things take time to integrate and move through like what you learned. And something that I really observed about you the first couple of days that I got to work with you is your ability to not only integrate feedback, but you would ask for it. And you ask for it in a really open way. That's also, you seem happy. I know that that's like a, I know that that is like a part of your personality is very, very bubbly and very happy, but at the same time, I know that it's not easy sometimes to get feedback. And we gave you some very real, honest feedback at the last weekend of maybe how you could be perceived or ways to up level what you're doing. Cause you really want to start attracting that up leveled client for yourself. So can you kind of tell me, because I think that that's a superpower. Could you tell me about how you do that? Has that been something that you work on? Or is that something that's just been a part of you? How do you go in there and ask, like you would ask us straightforward for the feedback. And in all honesty, I used to avoid that. People should have this muscle. Most don't, but you do. Well, I did used to be an attorney and no one is sparing your feelings in that profession. But also I truly believe and know that feedback is neutral. It doesn't mean anything about who I am. I know that I'm worthy and enough regardless of what anyone has to say, good, bad, or otherwise about my business, right? I think it's really important for entrepreneurs to know that you are over here, your business is over here, you are not the same thing. And ultimately you're never going to grow. And I'm also extremely careful about who I ask for feedback because I would obviously ask you guys, you guys have a lot of the things that I would like to achieve in my life, but I'm not going to listen to Sandra, no offense to me, Sandra's out there on Instagram who aren't doing what I want to do because their two cents is not going to get me where I want to go. So how did you learn that? Is that something that you just grew up with or is this something you really had to think about? Okay, true story. I did this personal development program when I sort of had one foot out and one foot out of the law and then I was getting into coaching. This was pre-psychedelic facilitation. And it was an interesting program where they literally got in a circle around you and said things like, scare little girl. And it was very, it was interesting. It was a little culty. Oh, I've done stuff like this, yeah. I've definitely done this. But I was like, these are just words that says how people are perceiving me. And at the end of the day, it doesn't matter who you think you are. This is going to be a little controversial. But if people aren't seeing you that way, it's really important for you to open your eyes and realize why aren't they? Like I think that I'm so nice, but clearly there is a disconnect in how I'm presenting. So maybe I should clean that up. Mic drop. I want to make sure people really caught that. And you're right. This could rub people the wrong way, but people think, well, I know who I am. And that's all that matters. Nope. In the real effing world, what matters if you want to get somewhere is how people perceive you. And you play a role in looking in the mirror and saying, okay, if I want people to perceive me a certain way and they're not, where's my responsibility in that? I mean, Julie, you just called out like one of the biggest things I feel like like if they want to grow in a massive way, and I think this is like how you walk into every room, if they want to grow in a massive way, it really is, I was just thinking of this for an exercise Chris. I was like, oh my God, it takes like so much courage to even implement an exercise like that, where it's like, here's what I think of me, but I want to know from everyone in this group, like how do you perceive me? Because there's obviously something happening or how you're showing up. And you can decide if that's a good or bad thing. Like the data is just data, kind of like what you said. So for the feedback is, you know, the feedback is huge. You can take it and either integrate it because it was someone who cared about you, who was giving it. What about the data that you get that doesn't, you're like, that doesn't feel like a fit for me, even if it's from like a mentor that you feel is important, but you're like deciding how you want to take it. I have a rule of three for feedback. So if I hear something three times, then it's really important for me to sit and sit with it and assess whether, you know, this is perhaps true and how I'm showing up at least, even if it's not how I'm perceiving myself, you know, but Chris, the best thing I love about Chris is that he will throw these ideas that sometimes feel like a little bit bonkers. Oh, bonkers. Bonkers. It's a joke's name. And I'm thinking, I have never even dreamt or conceived of that, but I take everything that Chris says and I sit with it and I try it on. And I think, is this what I want for myself? Because I appreciate the idea we have to be living in the realm of infinite possibilities at all times, but I don't need to go implement everything. I think that shiny object syndrome and you get derailed from really your zone of genius. Yeah. So you being able to discern, is this big idea for me or not, is a real superpower to be able to do that? Have you found in the past that you chased anyone's shiny idea and you had to learn that or have you always had this discernment? The first year of my business, I cannot tell you how many iterations of coaching and like me she down I went through. And it's so funny when I got into psychedelics, I didn't want to do this as a business. I was doing it for myself to heal my anxiety and depression, but people just continually kept asking me, like, what are you doing? Can you help me? And it felt like the universe was sort of like slapping me around, hello lady, this is what you're meant to be doing. And I had such a passion and drive for reading, researching, taking classes, learning more about it that I thought, well, I'm already spending so much time doing this. I'm good at it, clearly I healed my own anxiety and depression, so like, let's go. That's amazing. So you just mentioned, you've been using micro dosing for you and for your clients to heal anxiety and depression. But lately you've made a shift into using it to target high performers and helping them lead a more limitless life. So these are like two opposite ends of the spectrum. Tell us about that shift and how it can do both of those things at the same time. So this really came about as a result of looking at all of my journals for the past five years. I'm a huge journaler and I have them all. And so in the beginning, it was, wow, my mind was not a fun place to be. It was really, it was so hard to get control of my thoughts and I was really spun out by my anxiety depression. It was extremely overwhelming. And I've been looking at my journals more recently as I integrate my micro dosing protocols and larger journeys. When I have facilitators, take me through larger journeys because I'm very big on facilitating and being facilitated for them. And my outcomes and what I'm focusing on are just completely different. Now at the end, I'm thinking about, okay, what does it look like to truly dream big, no guardrails, live in the land of infinite potentials, to learn to hold greater levels of joy, abundance, all that big leap stuff. And it just came about naturally as a result of continuing to work with this. And I realized, and Chris, that's what is for you. I came up with this analogy that micro dosing just for your mental health is like buying a Ferrari and only driving to the grocery store. You need to take that thing out on the track and see where it can go. That's amazing analogy. I freaking love that. Expand on that a little bit more for us. So what do you mean? We're like, okay, you've got this Ferrari, AKA micro dosing, except you're kind of just taking it to the grocery store and back. And it was built for something more. Tell us about that. The human brain is a supercomputer. Unfortunately for many people, our operating system, our default operating system lands us into OCD, anxiety, depression, sometimes addiction. And so getting, healing the root cause of those things, it's just like a baseline. It's like, oh, okay, now I can have an average normal good existence. Who wants to wait for good? Who wants to sit in good? Like let's get to great. I truly believe this life is limitless. I believe we were all creators of our reality. And our reality can look however we wanted to. I mean, Laura, you say it all the time, like this is not where you saw yourself from your childhood. It's like you didn't let anything stop you. You weren't subscribed to these manuals and these paradigms. You busted them and dream bigger for yourself. And here you are. Everyone can do that. That's amazing. I just want to stand at the top of it for one more minute, high performers. Can you give an example of how a high performer used this to go from good to great? To really unlock that ceiling that they knew they had to bust through? One of my favorite examples is a structural engineer I worked with. She actually just sent me a message and she said, I have everything I wanted a year ago. I just realized that after a micro dose this morning and I really allowed myself to sit in that feeling. You know, so many people are doing well, right? Like they have the career, they have the accolades, but there is an inner peace missing where they probably doesn't feel as good as they thought it was going to feel because they're getting there with burnout, with exhaustion, with pushing themselves their limits. And there are sneaky little ways that they are out of integrity with their values and with what they say they want because I think for high performers they probably have cleaned up the bigger things, right? Like whether it be partying or scrolling or, I don't actually want to say scroll. I think a lot of people scroll. I still scroll. But when we really clean it up and we really commit to living in our zone of excellence and that's what's so cool about psychedelics is it helps turn off the parts of your brain that chatter and it helps you make new habits more easily. And so then you really can live in that zone of excellence because you're not overwhelmed and feel like you're beholden to these things that you know aren't serving you. That's so cool. Okay, so you created Living Limitless as more than just a program. So it's like a high impact community for women who are already playing big but are ready to break through their upper limits which I can totally relate to. I feel like no matter how big I start playing there's always something more that I'm bumping up against. So what does it look like to be a part of that space where no one can play small and you can't hide? And how does that level of accountability and expansion transform someone's life? You know, I was just talking to someone in MCM who's joining and we were having a conversation and through that conversation I realized, oh, this is an incubator. This is like the place where you go where you don't wanna hide, right? It is only 10 women so it is very much a space where I know what you're doing, I know what you said you were going to do. There's check-ins, there's just a different level of being seen because it's also not like, oh, I said this to just one person, like I said this to a room of other women where their feedback matters to me and that's a big piece too, right? Like coming back to this feedback, like all of these women are up to big things and it's not ever from a place of I need to impress someone, but it's about I wanna be in the room, I wanna be having the conversation, I want to, at the end of the day, I wanna do it for myself to put my head on the pillow and think I made the most out of this life, this day that I have and I really wanna get to the end and think no regrets. Yeah, same, I feel that. Okay, I wanna know about your retreats because I know that it's one of your favorite things that you get to do. First of all, why is it one of your favorite things? What do you believe about retreats that are so impactful? Ooh, they're one of my favorite things because in person it's just different, right? I believe that, I signed up for this again. We swear by it, like in person, just it accelerates everything you do. And it is, it's so much more accelerated transformation than any online coaching could possibly be simply because it's a weekend of constant experience, reflection, growth, breakdown, breakthrough. I like them because I keep them small, five to six women for each retreat. And I honestly feel that is my top zone of excellence. Like when I enter the retreat space, I feel like some kind of switch gets flipped in me and that is what I was meant to do. And I, it can be a lot of people are like, how can you go and facilitate these larger journeys? Cause it isn't micro, right? It isn't like 100 milligrams. It is two grams and above. How can you hold someone's experience during that, let alone, you know, six other women. And it is, I feel it as a gift. It is something that I don't think everyone can do, but I know that I can. And like holding that for someone and seeing them have the process and the transformation, it's just, I'm the most grateful for that. If that sounds intimidating, but interesting to somebody, walk them through like why they shouldn't be intimidated about a full immersion like that. So there's something in this psychedelic world called set and setting. So when you control for set and setting, the environment you're in and the mindset you're in, when you enter the experience, your possibility of having a bad trip is almost negligible. So everything that I do to set up their tree is extremely intentional from, you know, the space itself to how I speak, what I say. It has a lot of NLP infused in it, not from a space of like manipulation, but just from wanting someone to feel comfortable in creating safety in their subconscious mind to let go. Ultimately a bad trip is a result of someone not letting go. So when someone, you know, says, always saw something really scary and I tried to run away from it or there was a door I wouldn't open, that is when you reach a lot of discomfort and ultimately just like in life, the only way out is through. So true in a trip, it's a great mirror for our experience in life, but as long as they can continue to lean in to whatever comes, they will get to the other side of it and have the most amazing breakthrough. That is wild. It's definitely something I'm so curious about and also equally like intimidated by. You know, and I'm guessing there's probably a lot of people listening that kind of feel the same way. Yeah, I think, you know, different things that I've heard from people are, I almost don't wanna do it because I don't wanna know what's there. So, and I've heard that quite a bit actually from different people. So I'm wondering for someone like that, who's like, am I just opening something up that doesn't need to be open? Is there ways to go into something where it's more intentional? Like you're going in with an intention of wanting to just solve one thing, but maybe, you know, is there avoiding or is it like it's just gonna... Yeah, everything's gonna come out, period. Well, I love you said intention, intention and integration are my two favorite words. It's always important to have an intention. And I do say in a journey, you are always gonna get exactly what you need, even if it's not exactly what you want. I was actually just having this conversation with a friend who thinks like maybe his marriage is over and he said he's been avoiding doing something like this because he didn't want to like be faced with that. So ultimately, if you're not ready to look at something, I would say this probably isn't for you, but I remember one of the women who came to my very first retreat and had a lot of... She had a very sad childhood. And in that experience, she was able to go like protect herself essentially against what had happened to her as a child. And it was very healing and very like closing of the loop essentially. So what I also like to say about a journey is, it's ultimately like four to six hours. If you can just let go for four to six hours, face the thing that you have been avoiding for years, for decades. It's always like, I like to execute and just do the thing because the discomfort you're creating from not just going for it is ultimately so much larger than whenever discomfort you're gonna feel from facing it and doing it. That isn't like the metaphor for life period. Yeah, absolutely. That you create more discomfort by dragging something out and kind of barely living in it, as opposed to just facing it and walking right through it. Ultimately, I do feel like everything in psychedelics is such a metaphor for life, right? Whether it be don't avoid the discomfort, the only way out is through have an intention. If everyone in this, listening to this podcast, took away nothing but that and just implemented, I'm going to have an intention before I eat my lunch to nourish myself and to notice when I feel full and respect that if I'm going to this conversation with my mom to just show her love and understanding, even if we have a tough relationship, like if you just infuse intention in every part of your day, your life will change. I love that. Oh, it's so good. I've loved all of these wisdom nuggets that you dropped as well on top of that, which just makes me really think, you know, I've never done a journey with you, but I feel like I can feel how you are in just like the love that you put into it. So I'm grateful for you. Thank you. Well, listen, if someone's curious, how should they reach out, whether it's on the microdosing side or whether it's coming to one of your retreats? Well, if you want to just know whether microdosing is a great path for you, that's super simple. Find me on Instagram. I know that it's linked down in the show notes and you can just DM me the word journey. You can take a quick quiz, less than a minute and find out very honestly whether it is for you because there are some people where I will not work with them, not because I don't love them, but because it's just not the right fit for a variety of reasons. And you can find the pin post on my Instagram page as well with all of my upcoming retreats through 2026. And I know some show notes about share your Instagram. Oh yes, Julie Savon, J-U-L-I-E-C-Y-V-O-N-N-E. I love it. All right, any last closing words, any last piece of advice for someone who's like on the fence about this? I believe that if you have a poll toward plant medicine, there is a reason. I always say that you don't decide to do it, it calls to you. I firmly believe that's a little bit of one of my woo things, but if this has been something on your heart, I think it's for a reason and at least have a conversation, if not with me, research it on your own. I love that, super cool. Well, I appreciate you always popping in and sharing your wisdom on this. The story about the doctor in the beginning, all of this stuff, the conversation continues to make it more approachable so that people aren't missing out on something that might really, really help their life or free them or finally get them to their goals. And it's really cool that you're willing to sit down with people and talk about it. Well, thank you so much for having me, guys. This is amazing. Yes, and we've linked everything up in the show notes, you guys, so all you have to do is scroll down and you can get all of our info there as well, but go follow her and thank you so much for coming on. Thank you guys. You're the best. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and Sierra on platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you've become the leader, that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify, 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify's built-in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built in too. You can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first, judging this new year with Shopify by your side. I talk about the importance of sleep and reaching your goals all the time on this podcast but I also know that you're probably wound pretty tight like I am and you might have trouble transitioning from your daytime to your nighttime. So I added something that I absolutely love because you know, skincare is a big thing for me in 2026 and I love Osea's Dream Collection. It's really helped change that for me. Osea's Dream Night Serum and Dream Night Cream are clinically tested formulas powered by Bio Retinol and designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep. You guys know that I am all about making the things you're already doing work for you. So why not make this work for you in your sleep? So I love this because it really helps me wind down not only because of this beautiful scent and how it feels on my skin but I'm really loving that it's something that supports my nighttime ritual while I sleep and it helps me settle in for the night because my skin feels so good. And again, it's got that nice lavender scent that I always associate to nighttime sleep because skincare truly is self-care you guys. So Osea's newest product in the Dream Collection is the Dream Bio Retinol Body Serum. And let me tell you skincare for me this year is not just about my face, it's about my whole body. So you should make this a key part of your personal body care routine just like I am. And I think you're going to fall in love with it. So it's a full body restorative treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a holistic blend of Bio Retinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender. I think the second that you put it on, you're gonna feel the difference just like I did and you're gonna see the difference. I mean, talk about looking like glass skin. I literally put it on and actually feel like I wanna go somewhere because my skin looks so plump and hydrated and useful. So you guys give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skincare from Osea. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site wide with code EARN at OseaMalibu.com. And trust me, you're gonna love this so much, you're gonna wanna buy one for your friends. Kaylee and Riley, we are so excited to have you on the podcast. Welcome to the EARN Your Happy Podcast and the Chris Harder Show. Chris Harder Show is gonna say, don't leave me out. Yeah. Okay, so here's what I wanted to start. You guys just wrapped up your first day of our two day in-person, year-to-week-end mastermind. What's your opinion of collaborating with so many other people at once? Oh, it's the best thing ever. Like a rising tide lifts all ships. And I think that's the most powerful thing of getting in the room with game changers is, I was, I told her when we were like getting ready for this, I said, isn't it so nice to sit in a room with people where they're like, oh, okay, easy. This is how you make a million bucks in a year. Versus sitting in rooms where people are like, oh my gosh, this is run out, this isn't, you can't do this, that's never, like your dreams are crazy, you're just too big of a dreamer, you're too much. And it just feels really nice to be in a room with people where they're like, okay, that's your big dream, this is how you make it happen. And instead of, that's your big dream and you're insane, that could never happen. Riley, you told a really cool story in the beginning where you didn't allow yourself to dream, you didn't understand entrepreneurship, you didn't, you're like, that's for other people. I just lived the lifetime dealt. And now you're like in a very short amount of time, you're at the past, I forgot if you said months or years, but in a very short amount of time, you've changed your whole world upside down. Would you mind sharing it? Cause people get inspired by this. Yeah, my story is pretty crazy actually. I grew up with a lot of trauma. I'm a survivor of 10 out of 10 adverse childhood experiences. I'm a childhood sexual abuse survivor and I'd say I spent my last 10 years doing thousands of hours of therapy and healing through different modalities. And I was a person after college, I had no family to help me out. So I slept on a broken bed for a couple of years, living paycheck to paycheck, working at a group home with adolescent boys who also didn't have families. So I spent my entire holidays with them and they'd always say, well, I have no family. And I'd say, well, I'll spend Christmas with you. And they still keep in touch with me and they say like, you changed my life so much. And I started, I got sober when I was 21. I stopped drinking. I was going down the wrong path and both my parents were alcoholics and I just had a really rough upbringing. And I thought, I wanna change my life. I want something better. So I started pouring into helping people, especially young women, to find a recovery path that works for them. And I see in the nonprofit, I did move up quite a bit I was running campaigns on substance use prevention with a company called Shatterproof. And then I'm actually finishing my master's degree in prevention science. I have one class left. But when I met Keely over three years ago, literally first date, we're sitting on my bed and she goes, I wanna be like the next Glenn and Doyle and Abby Wambach. And I was like, oh my gosh, that would be a dream. Like, I love them. We listen to everything they do. And I'm so inspired by all these people. And Keely's like, I wanna life that's more than paycheck to paycheck. Like, I wanna make so much money and I wanna have all these kids. And we both agree we wanted more than five kids. And we were just like, I was sitting there and I'm like, on my bed. I'm like, is this possible? And I said, here you start, you start your journey. I'm gonna stay stable. And then once I see that you succeed, maybe I'll join you in this path. So she's like, come on a model home tour with me. I said, what's that? I'm like, I have no idea what real estate mortgages are. I've learned like no skills. And so then she took me on some and I started getting to know the clients and I love people too. I'm a little more introverted, but then I just, I caught the bug. And I was like, wow, not only is it lucrative, we can make money, but there's purpose. And there's mission behind what we're doing. That's amazing. Okay, so intro, what you are both doing. And you have a company called Property Wives. It is such good brand.  and and and What, who are you like telling me about you, telling me about your dreams? And I was like, yeah, I want to be an entrepreneur. I want to own all these properties. I want to own healing retreat centers. I want to help people buy and sell real estate. And I want to help people build generational wealth through real estate. It's a really important thing for me. Home ownership is one of the greatest wealth transfers in families and we don't see it in marginalized people groups. And we're like really passionate about helping all marginalized people groups, but being part of the queer community, we are on mission right now to build the largest platform that helps queer and trans people relocate around the world safely and do it with allies or people in the community, which allows us to not only help them on a path of home ownership, but help them on a path to safety and safety and shelter are two of the basic fundamentals for all of us to survive, for all of us to thrive. And it's exciting to like help you move from like survival and paycheck to paycheck to thriving. And that's like what we want to help so many people do. Marginalized groups have traditionally always had a very hard time breaking into home ownership. And so it makes sense why this is your mission. Would you give a little more detail around why marginalized groups have such a hard time breaking into home ownership as opposed to other groups? Wow, that's such a good question. And I'm like, we don't have four hours to unpack it. So I'm trying to consolidate the cliff notes version. I think for one, when you're a marginalized people group, you wake up at a disadvantage fighting for a right. And in a world that's like, oh, DEI gives unqualified people positions that they didn't earn. What DEI actually did was give qualified people an opportunity to take a position they were fully qualified for. And that's like for anyone like racial inequality, all of the marginalized people groups, like not just queer trans individuals, but what we're seeing specifically in the population that we help is people messaging us on TikTok and Instagram daily. Like I just got kicked out of my housing because they asked if the guy who spent the night was my boyfriend and I said, yes. And they terminated my lease and kicked me out of my home the next day. And I just got evicted because I told my landlord when they addressed me to please address me with new pronouns that I'm going by. And they evicted me the next day. And they're like, I don't know how I'm gonna rent at another place now. Like even if I move states, evictions stay on your record. And so if you can't rent a place and then you can't have an address to get a job and you can't get a job to pay for an address, it's just this perpetual cycle. But then I think also a lot of marginalized people groups and a lot of people in the queer and trans community do lose their families. And that's not why Riley's estranged from her family but that is a story for a lot of people. And so there's not that familiar support. There is not that like, oh, hey, we're gonna like gift you your down payment that I see in a lot of families that do help young kids get into home ownership. And I think it is just this perpetuation of, like there's so many roadblocks. And I don't know, I love the analogy of like, people say, oh, well, we all started at the same place. But if you imagine like a track and someone starting here, someone starting here, someone starting here, you might all be running the same human race, but everyone's not starting at the same place. And everyone doesn't have the same amount of hurdles, they have to jump over. So if I'm running around a track and I have no hurdles to jump, I'm gonna get there a lot faster than someone that has an hurdle every 30 feet to jump over. And I think marginalized people groups in general, just have a lot more hurdles to jump over than those that aren't identified in a marginalized people group. We've seen real estate skyrocket over the past five years, like just double more than double. And that's probably made it even more difficult for any groups that are kind of starting from a disadvantage to break in. Cause now it's hard for anyone to break into home ownership. What are some of the things that you guys are doing to help put people into more homes? Yeah, so I'll answer this one. I'm really passionate about this that everyone deserves to be heard and listened to. And I've been getting, I'll say over the past two weeks, we've had over 2000 followers and maybe a couple of hundred messages and I'm sick cause I'm in my pregnancy right now. So I'm laying in bed and like that's my full-time job is responding to people. So probably 50 of those were people who are homeless and they were like, I just have no one that will listen to me or hear out my story. And so we're actually setting up our platform so that we can monetize off of the people who do wanna buy homes and the people who are gonna rent. And then also be able to create resource packets for people who are at a lower socioeconomic disadvantage and then be able to help people and basically just meet them where they're at. Because like I, we've cried a lot over the past two weeks because we've heard some like really heartbreaking stories and the people that are messaging us are thanking us so much just for making these videos that are educating the public. And they're like, thank you for caring about us. We get like hundreds of messages a day just people just being like, thank you so much. And so, yeah, we originally started out in real estate where we were like, we're gonna help people buy homes and we're gonna list homes and sell them. And then we like launched this idea and then we realized that a lot of people can rent and a lot of people wanted to move to Denver to rent. And so we are now trying to make our business more of like a referral business and be able to help people get into housing and with the money that they have. However, I do wanna add there are a lot of really cool resources. We live in Colorado, so I sell real estate in Colorado. And I'm also a licensed loan originator. And there is a program called CHAPA, which is Colorado Home Buyers Down Payment Assistance Program. And they will pay your entire down payment. So 3.5% of your loan value for you. Regardless of size. Up to $800,000, I believe. Absolutely, that's a really big place. And you just have to come out of pocket $1,000 and go through their home buyer education course. So you can go through this program and we can get you into a home. As long as your monthly income qualifies to pay your mortgage after that, you get into the home and that loan is good for 20 years. You don't have to pay it back for 20 years or if you refinance or you sell the home, then you would pay it back with the home's proceeds. But that's a program that we help a lot of people break into home ownership with because it gets rid of the idea that you need 20% down to buy a house. Most first time home buyers can qualify for a home with 3.5% down. And in Colorado, you can use the FHA first time home buyer down payment assistance program and you can do that. Another option is USDA loans. You can get them in more rural areas and you can get those for 0% down as well. And you just need to pay your closing costs. We also though, as a realtor, I can negotiate for the seller to pay your closing costs as a term of the contract so that you're not having to pay like eight to $12,000 in closing costs either. So you're truly only paying $1,000. Even if your earnest money you put down is more than that, you'll get it back at close. This is exactly what I'm talking about. The two of you speaking up about these things being available, nobody knows this stuff without you guys sharing this information. I want to teal Ori up for a question. I know she's dying to ask because you've been doing it on TikTok as of late. You've got a brand new to TikTok. And while we sat here today, you got hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of new followers while we're sitting there. So that's the question is, for anybody listening, I think what's been so great about getting to know you guys just even over just this past day that we've had you at the mastermind is you have really, like you really niche down and you're like, both of you have talked today so much about how some of the things that you have talked about, you know it's going to push a lot of people away, but it's also going to bring your ideal customer. So tell me some of the things that you think are the reasons why you're growing on TikTok so quickly. So I'll say that we do have funny comedy and we love it. We have so much, we love making content. We sit there and we just laugh so hard all night that are absurd. Like it's just, it's so funny. And so we mix it up. We do serious content because we're addressing some serious issues. We're talking about discrimination, workplace discrimination, housing discrimination. And then we also kind of like do comedy skits to make people laugh. And we get so many messages like, thank you for making me smile. Thank you for making me laugh. And we always joke. We want to like be an opener on a comedy skit one day or something. Shout out Chelsea Handler. Yeah. So, but yeah, I think the mix of like funny and that, but I think also the way algorithms work is that like the word trans is very out there right now. Like we have an administration that just said that they are like a terrorist organization and we're coming out saying like, no, we disagree with that. We believe that they're human beings. And when people come to us and they're like, well, like I'm cool with you two because like you're super cool. So like I don't care that you're gay, but I just don't understand the whole trans thing. I don't get the whole transgender thing. And our answer is we don't either, but I don't need to get it to respect them as human beings and to honor that they are suffering in a way that I've never experienced suffering and they were brave enough to do something about it in a world that makes them hated for it. And to me, that is something that I just admire and respect to anyone of any issue that is like, if I can see you that like you are suffering from an issue that you were dealt that you had zero control over, but you didn't just sit there and suffer in it. You did something about it. Like that should be applauded that someone was brave enough to say like, something is wrong here for me and I'm gonna do something about it. And the other thing is people are like, oh, well, you're just gay or you're trans for attention. That's something that people say all the time. It's just a phase or this. And I'm like, there has never been more negative attention than to this group of people right now. And I think the reality is because of that and we're standing here like, I don't care what this costs us. We are specifically like targeting you in a good way because you are being targeted in such a negative way in every other sphere of this world currently. Like we will stand up and say like, I stand for you. And I remember one of the books that Glennon Doyle, who's like such an inspiration to me, she was reading her daughter's book after George Floyd and her daughter was like, mommy, like would we be marching in those? And she was like, of course, sweetie. And her older daughter said, no, we wouldn't because there's marches going on now for the same thing of racism and we're not marching in them. And when Riley was like, we need to start speaking about this. I was kind of like, one, I'm scared that I'm gonna get in trouble for violating fair housing laws because someone's gonna come out and be like, oh, you're only working with this population. Like you're refusing to work with me. And I'm like, that's not true at all. Like we work with all people. We work with people that vote different than us, that pray different than us, that look different than us, that are different races, that like 90% of our clientele are still straight people because they're still the majority of the world. And I was also like just scared selfishly. Like I was like, that puts us in a category that is like, they have a target on their back that is so large right now in this country and us standing for them moves that target to our back. And we're lucky. Like we're straight passing, we walk down a street, people aren't giving us dirty looks. They assume that we're friends. They assume that we're sisters. They assume that we're both straight women. And this population often doesn't have that privilege. Many of them in different periods, you can tell. And so they're just immediately discriminated against and we just wanna immediately like come to their defense and be like, we see you, we support you, we love you and we want to help you find safety. I just wanted to add one thing. Our whole, our tagline is, if you're brave enough to choose love over hate, you'll change the world. We work with everyone. Like at the end of the day, we work with so many people that will look at us and they'll be like, I vote differently than you and we'll say, okay, but do you respect us? Yes, I respect you. We said, we'll respect your beliefs. And then we work with them. And oftentimes they come to us later and they say, I'm so glad you loved us through this process and let us just like change our opinion and what we thought of the LGBTQ community. And we get these messages all the time from people who are like, both of you are so loving even though we have different beliefs in you. And we always are saying choose love over hate. So we always choose love in the end. And someone can totally hate us for what we stand for, but we're still gonna choose to love them. I think what I picked up from that is if you stand up unapologetically for something, then it's easier to stand out, right? And that's what everyone's trying to do. How do I stand out? How do I get, well, stand up for something you believe in instead of just kind of getting vanilla on everything. You had an interesting story that you shared today with a group. You went to show a house recently and people had a negative reaction towards you. Would you mind sharing a brief version of the story? Yeah, luckily it wasn't in person. So I could just hang up and be like, bye. But yeah, like as a realtor you get lead sources and I got one and the woman clicked on my ad. That was a picture of me and filled out her information to work with me. And then I gave her a call and we chocked for over 30 minutes. And it was a lovely call. And she was like, you're so great. This was so pleasant. Thank you so much. She said, do you have a family? And I said, I do. My wife and I are expecting our first baby in December. We're so excited. And before I could even finish my sentence, she was like, ew, that is so disgusting. You and gay people and all of your agendas are what is wrong with this country. Like I will not be working with you. God bless. I was like, okay, God bless you too, my guest lady. And then she hung up and it is interesting though. Like we had one where people are just like really weird to us and rude and like we're like, we're not interested and just kind of walked away at one tour. But the cool thing is, is I feel like those are the stories that the news wants us to hear. And my reality is the story I want you to hear is that that is one in a million. We have a million people that love us, that see us, that support us. And I'm really passionate about like, there is good and bad in every single thing and every single day. And every one of us could wake up and choose to only see the bad in the world cause it's there. And every single one of us can wake up and choose to be the good in the world. And that adds to it. And so yeah, people can hate us, people can disagree with us. And like you said at the end of the day, I'm just like, I'm sorry that your heart is stuck in so much hate. And I'll say the other awesome thing I love about us is we're open to dialogue. And we love hearing people's different views and opinions. Like we never are there to shut people down. We actually both grew up in pretty conservative homes ourselves. And so I've had friends who have very different beliefs in me, I post something about trans rights, they reach out, well, have you thought about this, this? And I said, tell me what you think. I want to hear what you think and then I'll tell you what I think. And I said, this is the problem with our country right now is we're not having these dialogues. This is true. Like, of course, we could be sitting here. We might have totally different political beliefs, but you respect us enough to like hear our opinion. And we respect you both for everything that you do in the world. So I just think that we're not as different as people think at the end of the day. Like I think a lot of people want to choose love over hate. We don't want the same things. At the end of the day, if you had a private test and said, OK, what do you really do? What do you want for your family? What do you want for your finances? Everybody wants the same things. And they've just done such a good job of dividing all of us and making everybody want to argue and fight and hate. And they've made it so that we don't realize that for the most part, everyone's aligned on the same outcomes that everybody wants. And it's just gotten so crazy. Yeah. Yeah, something I do when I get the chance to speak is I'll introduce myself and then I'll say, I'm just like everyone to close their eyes for a quick minute. We'll be here for less than 60 seconds. And I just want you to imagine the person you love the most in your life. You love them enough. They've immediately already popped into your vision in your mind. What do you want for them? I want you to imagine someone lifting them up, cheering them, supporting them when they're down, helping them up when they're out of luck, supporting them when you're gone, long after maybe you're dead, maybe you're just not in the room when they need help, in someone helping them. Doesn't that feel so good in your heart? Maybe you have a smile on your face already. And now I want you to imagine that same person you love more than anything, being disrespected, being spit on, being ignored, being treated unfairly. That's got to hurt your heart. However, when we open our eyes and we look around at the world too many of us are forgetting that the person we see in front of us is someone's most important person in the world. And so we all were taught it in kindergarten, but if only we could go back to treat others the way we want to be treated. That's a pretty good business rule, too. Yeah, it really was just I had a business question in my head, and I'm like, wow, it's just so much of how we treat each other, applies to people want a great business, they want to make a ton of money, and they forget they were all human. We talk about that all the time of how much what we do is because of how we've viewed people and the things we've had to learn about people. And the, oh my gosh, the amount of people we've had to work with with different views, with different. Just how we approach things and having to learn how to be that person. And I would say the two of you will be so successful because you are able to step into so many people's positions and shoes and understand. And being able to perceive and stand in someone's shoes is probably one of the most powerful things that you can possibly do in life, business, relationships, everything. So do you want to leave any last words with our people? You can follow us on TikTok and Instagram at the property, Y, W-I-V-E-S. And on our TikTok, Instagram, and website, you can find if you're a realtor, if you're an apartment locator, if you are a landlord that owns apartments all across the nation, we would love for you to apply to be a part of our community and our network so that we can have safe allies and community members there. And then also if you are in need of our services and you want to relocate. Or if you just love the mission of what we're doing and you want to go through our platform to relocate so that it can help us reallocate funds back to those who need them. And if you're a business owner, we would love to also host you on our platform because as we talked about, so many of these people face discrimination also in the workplace, which makes it harder to afford housing. And so if you are a safe employer, that would like to advertise on our platform. We would love to work with you as well. And that falls under the Safe Haven Homes Initiative. Yeah. Very cool. All right, you guys, thank you so much for coming on the show. Yeah, thank you so much.

=== FILE: Why the Right Relationships Matter More Than the Right Contacts with Kristina Bartold [3gKB1Tky-bI].txt ===

 you don't need to be friends with the people on stage, like, or the people you've even invested in. Really just leaning into the people who are on the come up with you, it is like the ultimate networking hack. That's how I've got all my speaking opportunities, that's how I've gotten all my referrals, like, all of that has been focusing on building those relationships. This is an absolute masterclass in how to network. It's the long game. Post"] Christina, welcome to the podcast. I'm so excited to have you on. Thank you so much for having me. I'm so happy to be here and happy to be here in person. I know. OK, so I'm really trying to figure out how we're going to not turn this podcast into a comedic show. Because I feel like whenever I'm with you, I either want to crack jokes, laugh at all of your jokes, or I just want to, it's like, it's so much fun to just drop in and be like girlfriends together. So I promise you guys we are going to teach you things, but we might get sidetracked. We'll see. We might laugh. My cheeks are already kind of hurt. We've been together for 15 minutes. I'm like, my cheeks. We've already had a morning, you guys, which is so much fun. But Christina, I want everyone to know, like, actually, how obsessed Chris and I are with you. I'm going to start out with that. Because you are one of the people that when people think of joining masterminds, I don't think they understand how much their world can truly change if they come into a mastermind, really viewing it with how can I add value. And I would say that you are the epitome of if I could explain how you're going to make yourself insanely successful by joining a community. You are the epitome of that. Like when I explain it to people, you're either the name that comes up or you're the person that I think of in my head. It's like the avatar of how you come into a community and how you build community. So we got to know you through Fast Foundations. I would love for you, from your perspective, to kind of tell me where you were when you joined Fast Foundations first. Because there is, Christina is insanely successful. She has her own company. She's a co-founder of two different companies. And I will tell you that it all began because of how you show up in rooms in the community that you build. Oh my gosh, Lori, thank you. Firstly, I always say this. And I've said this before, when you were in my podcast when I was here last, I would not be who I am without you and Chris. So I always give you guys the foundation. I'm like, Chris and Lori were my MBA. Honestly, I learned so much from Fast Foundations. And onwards, I was in the mastermind and round table I've done it all. Like I was saying today, I'm basically like a Chris and Lori extended family member. I'm like, you know. You are. Yeah, thank you so much. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm just saying. Take it out, it's a problem. Yeah, no, everything. Even Taylor messaged me today. He was like, I can't believe you're in the US. So I'm not seeing you. I'm like, I know. I'm like, I'm here. Taylor's my brother. Yeah. But yeah, no, I loved Fast Foundations and the way I kind of got into it. And this is actually such a great segue because I started listening to Chris's podcast. Someone I knew posted a Chris's podcast and I was obsessed with his energy, right? Like, like you are, I'm sure. And actually the thing about Chris that I find the most surprising is that he is as high vibe, like IRL and like in his casual time as he is in the like virtual online podcast world. Really, as people have asked me, they're like, is this real? I'm like, no, this is how he wakes up. I'm telling you, so when I had the opportunity to go to your lake house, I literally, like the amount of people that asked me, they're like, are Chris and Lori like the way they are like in real life? And I'm like, no, the exact same, like the exact same. So Lori's funnier. Lori is like more fun. Just tell them. Tell them. I don't need to. They see it, but they know. But I was obsessed with his energy. And so it's so interesting because it's such an example of like when people podcast, you know, over and over again, you're kind of like, does anyone listen to this? Like, who's going to buy this? Like whatever. And he had said on this, he's like, this is the last round of Fast Foundations. You guys were running your online community at the time. And I had this feeling we were in business about maybe six months. It was still a side hustle for me. I still had a nine to five. My business partner, Maria, I went to her and I'm like, OK, listen to this random man from Arizona's podcast. And he's running this program one last time. I think I should do it. And Maria was kind of like, if you want to do it, like do it. I was like, I'll take my own pain and do it for it. Like I'm like, I believe in it so much. I think that I think that this is it. So I, you know, make the investment. I go all in on it. And it was the like catalyst for not only like, you know, doubling our business, tripling our business. We went, you know, probably making five, $10,000 a month to within three years, we had built some bigger business. So exciting. And I still think Fast Foundations. I used to have a chart. I should reference it, but I still think Fast Foundations is the catalyst of the majority of the clients that we got. And I still get referrals from it like years and years later. And I think the way that, you know, I showed up in that room was one, I think what's really important with any room you go into, but I think what was really important in that time for me was like, I was a sponge. Like I just wanted to learn from everyone, including you, Chris, Nick, like, but actually like my peers. And I think a lot of people join masterminds or get into rooms and they're like obsessed with the leaders. And I think the leaders set the tone, but I actually think it's like really the peers that are the magic. So I kind of, you know, dropped in and was like, Hey, I'd love to give people some like free social media advice, like let me know. And in a way it was selfish because I really wanted to meet people, but also I wanted to do market research. I needed to know these were my ideal clients. I never pitch anybody. People ask me for like pricing decks all the time. I'm like, you need to explicitly say to me that you want me to send you a follow up email. Like I will not send it to you. But I would meet with people. I'd give them free advice. We would have these amazing conversations. And then after that, I was like, okay, like, you know, I'm getting a lot of info. And people always at the end would be like, how can we work to be with you or together? Or I have an intro for you or a collaboration. And so I was taking all the nuggets I was learning from, you know, you and Chris and Nick. And I had a coach. Jim Carter was actually my like my coach in fast foundations, which is amazing. And I really was able to take all of that. And then the connections to really use that to skyrocket my business. So like, I think the investment might have been like $3,000. I believe I've made millions off of it. Like I, well, I believe we always try to do the math on it. But like truly just because of like how amazing the quality of the people you attract is, but also I think our ability to get in there, make those great connections and try to build community. Oh, I love that. Okay. So for anybody listening who's like, should I be joining a room? One thing that I think comes up for a lot of people is there's a lot of like questions, there's a lot of self doubt. How did you know what to join? Was it like a gut feeling or did you interview people who were in there? What were you looking for? Yeah, it's funny at the beginning it was a gut feeling for Chris. It was like, I like binge this podcast. I listened to so many episodes of it. I was even the other day on my Spotify and I was like, like taking out old episodes I never listened to. And I was like, oh, Chris and Laurie 2021, like I probably fine on that one. That's my year. So it's like so amazing. Like, you know, that was it. Like I just had this feeling that this was right. And that actually is just such a reminder for people about free like content and really like adding value. And like even when you you're not sure and you're about to like launch something, you people were probably waiting in the dark or like listening to all of your things and who are connecting with you. So that was really how like at that time I made that choice was good and really just like Chris over delivered. Like I always found he gave so much free knowledge. You guys still do this with the mentor collective. Like just so much info that it was really the like, oh, if he's giving that much for free, like what's going to happen when I pay for that? And now I make decisions from a bit of a different place. Like I definitely probably like, you know, interview people now. But I think early stage like finding those people that you're really aligned with that you know, deliver. And I think, you know, I'm going to give you many accolades. I'm sure as we talk, but like I tell everyone, I'm like, Chris and Lori over deliver no matter what you're doing, like whether it's mentor collective, whether it's the elite, whether it's a round table, like it's a VIP weekend. Like anyone who asks me about investing with you because people like to like ask me all the time. I'm like, you guys really over deliver. So really asking other people is a great way to do it. Not always my way, but at that time it was definitely gut. I love that. Okay. So when you are walking into the room where there's things that you prepared yourself with, where you like, I'm going to be interested in people. I'm going to arm myself with these questions or have you always been very socially outgoing? Oh, I've always been socially outgoing. I think it's like I'm an only child. Then tell me the magic. Then tell us the magic. Like what would you say to, because like I love to find you at events because I'm just like, let me find this very extroverted person, which I can be extremely extroverted, but I can also be really introverted. So I'm like, let's find the extrovert to help me extrovert even more. But what would you say to somebody who's like going into an event? How would you help coach them through it? Yeah, it's so funny because I think, you know, orange you a mastermind. Yeah, or do it. Yeah, it's funny because I think I can be both where it's like, I'm also very outgoing and extrovert. Sometimes when I'm out of my shell, like in a space where I don't know anybody, I'm like a silent little potato. And even I laugh because my business partner will go places together and we kind of have the opposite experience. And I'm like, if I don't know somebody, I was like, I'm like, I need a crutch. I need someone who's going to be like my little buddy. But I think really it's that idea of being like, you know, interested rather than interesting, like asking a lot of questions, seeing like what's going on for people. And I like to make it my mission to try to help people with whatever it is that they're looking for. So even Lori, like, you know, if you're in a smaller room where people are talking about like what's going on for them, things they're struggling with, like, I'll take notes and I'll write down like, okay, Lori said that she's actually struggling with ads right now. And I know an amazing ads company. And so I will go after a computer. So you mentioned ads actually know somebody who could probably help you. Can I make that intro for you? Really building that like kind of capital relationship capital between us. I think that's such a big piece of like building that relationship. I don't focus on 100 people when I do this. Like when I go into a room, I'm not like, I'm going to go and I'm going to get a return on my investment. Like I went to an event a few weeks ago in Miami, maybe I paid $3,000. I didn't go there being like, oh my goodness, like by the end of this, I need a $3,000 client. I go in there being like, how do I get to know a few people build really solid connections, lean into the connections I already have and really just focus on, on adding value. And I think even if you do that with one or two people, it makes a big difference. So for those of you listening who might be a little bit more introverted and you're like a little nervous about connecting with someone, I would say focus on one or two relationships. And one of the things I love that Lori, like you always say, and I think you've said this with a lot of grace is this idea of like, you don't need to be friends with the people on stage. Like or the people you've even invested in, really just leaning into the people who are on the come up with you. That has been, that's how I've got all my speaking opportunities. That's how I've gotten all my referrals. Like all of that has been focusing on building those relationships. So I think even just finding one or two people, because I mentioned like, I'm an only child. So I think it's always come naturally to me. I'm like, you know, hyped up. But I think there's also like, for those of you who are like, Hey, this is a muscle, like I've never like flexed build one relationship. And the fortune is actually really in the follow up if you go and you're like, Hey, I didn't make all the connections I wanted. I love to write people's names down and be like, Hey, send them a voice note afterwards being like, we never actually got to meet. And I noticed you were there and I'd love to connect with you. Here's a connection call link would love to just like, you know, drop in connect, no like obligation also like not going to pitch you anything. And that's how so many amazing connections have come. Okay, so I want to circle back to something that you also said, when you go when you go into a room, you're kind of like, have this idea of adding value if they need help, you're like, let's book a call, like I can help walk you through that without the like you're not expecting something from them, it would be wonderful. Yeah. But you're not like, okay, now you have to return this favor for people who are, you know, there's so many different types of personalities that go into these rooms. There's sometimes there's people who are like overgivers. Would you how did you set boundaries around? I know you kind of mentioned like, you know, you don't go in with the intention of doing this for every everyone. How do you kind of decide and set boundaries around your energy and how much value you're going to offer and add how many calls you're going to book with the attendees? You know, it's interesting. I don't know if you find this lawyer because I know you have a similar mindset, but I actually feel like people don't take advantage of it. Like, yeah, and I don't know if it's like, because I definitely, I would say early on was kind of like give to everyone just, you know, you never know where anything will go. Like you I've had conversations with people where I'm like, I don't think this is going to turn into anything like you have a full social media team, you have full podcast production thing. Like, and then they end up sponsoring one of my events, or they end up introducing me to a great sponsor. Like you never know, like what could happen and really just being in it for relationship. But I would say I don't, I don't, I haven't found that too many people are like, you know, abusing me like messaging me 24 seven. But what I will say is you can feel energetically when things feel like a match. And I love to be the person to go first. I love to be the person to say like, Hey, I'm gonna, you know, there's this new relationship here. I'm the person who's going to take your watch. I'm the person who's going to make that intro for you. And if I notice that there's like a lot of asks, then I'm like, I'm going to withdraw a bit. And that's always a hard line, right? Because like, I'm not a big asker myself. Like, you know, if someone asks me for something, I'm always happy to do it. But like, when I need something, I'm kind of like, you think I should like flex this role? Should I ask? It's always tough. But I would say for me, it's really about like setting the boundary around like, what feels like a good energetic match, which is really just a feeling like I wish there was a formula. I'm sure you feel the same way. Oh, yeah, for sure. It's like sometimes and even like, Laura, the way I feel about you and Chris, it's like, I'm fundraising for Glowsy. I'm like, Okay, who do I know that's an investor? Like, yes, like, let me make an intro. Let me do whatever I can. But like, you know, someone else tells me the fundraising, I might not be as quick to be like, let me like pull out my roll of decks, you know, so it's all about the kind of energy exchange. Once you get in the rooms, you guys will know what we're talking about. And when I say rooms, I mean, these can be online as well. It's like, if it feels heavy, and it feels like it's hard to do it, that's not an energetic match. And it feels exciting. And you're like, I don't know what this is, but I feel like I'm supposed to follow it. I feel like those are little energetic breadcrumbs that you you just don't know what it's going to turn into. And I think that's what's been so amazing with you is you have added so much value to us by following now what I am learning for you was like an energetic match that the way that you showed up for us, I'm like, wow, every time this woman shows up in a room, the room is better. I feel amazing around her. I'm like, completely blown away by the value that you've added in the people that you've referred to us to the point where I'm like, what I'm thinking, what can I do for Christina? Like, how could you know, is how can we have her like be a coach in our stuff, which is such a value add for us, by the way. But we're just like, how could I surround myself with her because it feels so good? How could I have her on the podcast when she comes back to the US? So if you guys want to know how these things happen, this is literally how it happens. This is how it happened with my mentors. Like, it's legitimately how I got Gabby Bernstein to forward my book is because I just kept on showing up for her over and over and over without any expectation. Truly. So when it came time for an ask that I still did not have an attachment to, I was like, Hey, would you ever think about forwarding this book because of how many things that like you've impacted me on? I'd love for you to be the person who does this. And it was for her, she was like, it was just a no brainer. Like, of course, because of how many things that I had done for her. Yeah. And so these are the the ways that you have to think, you guys, like I've had, I've had, I've literally had people which Christina, we can, we're not going to do a bitch session, whatever whatsoever. But we are going to chat about some right and wrong ways. Totally. Yeah. And I have done the wrong ways as well. So I just want to raise my hand right now and say, when you are new, if you guys have done some of these, trust me, I've cringed multiple times at myself. And it's not a bad thing. It's a great, great lesson to learn like what to do and what not to do. I've had people who have never messaged me once, have never seen in my life, want me to forward their book and then share it. And I'm like, I literally don't know who you are. What is your book about? I can't put my name on it because I just don't know who you are. Like, I'm going to need to do a background check. But don't you find two and this is actually like the blessing and the curse, I think of your audience growing, right? Like, and like for you, Lori, like, you know, you have this amazing, abundant audience, like, like I always joke, like in Canada, like it's like you're like a household name. It's so funny. But it's just you have this amazing audience and there's expectations because people feel like they know you better than you know that. Right. But then at the same time, it's also like, you know, I think people can be really disrespectful of those boundaries because you actually don't know them, right? And that's like, it's just like you're both hanging out in the digital space, but it feels closer than it is because right people feel like they know you. Yeah, like I feel close to people who have no idea who my my name is. Yeah, that's right. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So what would you say is a great, I mean, I know you've talked about value ads, but when you are going out in the world and you're like, Oh, I'm going to need, you know, potential or I would love to potentially be able to ask them for something down the road unattached. Yeah. What are the ways that you start viewing that relationship? Yeah, I would say the big thing for me is like, it's really the like the value piece, but it's if you're just starting your business or you're looking for a really good foundation in your business, start with Northwest registered agent and get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business all in one place. Build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast with Northwest registered agent and get access to thousands of free resources, forms and step by step guides without even creating an account. Sign up for a free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more all at no cost. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. When you're growing a company, you know that you need good people around you in order to get to the next level. And right now there's a talented person out there who could take your company to the place that you want. But the question is, do you want to just hope that they see your job posts before your competitors or do you want to match with them using indeed sponsored jobs? If I had to hire someone for the show tomorrow, I wouldn't mess around with candidates who look decent on paper, but don't even get what I do. I'd want somebody who already has worked in podcasting and editing and software and understands workflow and can jump in and not only do the job well, but help take us to where we want to go. That's why I use indeed sponsored jobs. They help you find people who actually fit what you're looking for. Stop struggling to get your job post even seen on other sites with sponsored jobs. Your post is boosted to reach quality candidates, the kind of people who can help your business thrive and drive the results that you need. And the best part is you only pay for results. In fact, sponsored jobs posted directly on Indeed are 95% more likely to report a hire than non-sponsored jobs. So if you're hiring, Indeed is all you need and I like those stats. So spend less time searching and more time actually interviewing candidates who check all your boxes, less stress, less time, more results now with Indeed sponsored jobs. And listeners of this show will get a $75 sponsored job credit to help get your job, the premium status it deserves at indeed.com slash podcast. Just go to indeed.com slash podcast right now and support our show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed.com slash podcast terms and conditions apply hiring do it the right way with Indeed. I think showing up like relentlessly a little like, you know, I'm not in like an annoying way where you're like messaging people 24 seven because people don't like that either. But what I would say is Chris made a joke about this in one of our mentor collective calls where he was introducing me and we were talking about relationships and I was like, guys, like the way like I became friends with Chris and Laurie is I just like wore them down listening to their podcast and posting their podcast episodes. I mean, like, hi, this was good. And I like this and I shared this and you can't help but notice when people are like interested in what you're doing and interested in the things that you're up to. And so I think for me, it's just really like making connections for people really also just like sharing. And I would say too, like there is an energy around, like because you had mentioned like people messaging you about like forwarding, I get not to the same extent, but I get messages all the time where people will be like, could you show my podcast episode? And I'm like, I haven't listened to that. Like, I don't know. I don't know what you're saying. Yeah, like what is your podcast about? Like, I don't know. And I think it's really like, but if you message me and you're like, Hey, I had this awesome episode and I'm wondering like for reach if you wanted to share it, like, it's like enough core. So I think it's really all always about that like relationship pre ask, which I actually think it's people miss. And I don't know if you feel this too, but it's like, especially in the online digital world, I am and in person too, like there's just so much. And I think we're like really focusing on, you know, not like really breath of relationships but depth and being like, Hey, I have like one or two mentors, like, I don't have a lot of mentors. I've like, I'm like, you know, I've worked with you and Chris like pretty much extensively. If someone asked me my mentors or that's like you guys, and I've invested in creating cultivate events, like that's been really my big kind of investments over the years. And so I think like, you know, not worrying so much about like trying to make too so many relationships. So you have so many people to ask, but if you actually just like focus on the depth of these relationships, a lot of magic can happen. I totally agree with that. And I think that we can get lost in that world of thinking that you do need to be close to all of these different people and all these different groups and all these different mentors. And I've really watched you in a beautiful way infiltrate deeply into certain groups by adding so much value that everyone in those rooms knows your name. So you guys, this is this is an absolute master class in how to network. And I think that if anyone really it's the long game, it's the long game. Chris, how long would you say like you start feeling like you are getting a network and where you can start like feeling like seeing some results from it? I am like such a big believer in like you reap what you sow, like hugely with network. And actually a mistake I see people make all the time is kind of like what I had said earlier, you go somewhere and you're like, where's my money? Like, you know, it's like immediate. And I actually think like things could take six months, they could take a year, but it's really about your effort. Like, are you like, are you asking questions? Are you booking coffee chats? Are you going out for coffee? Are you like, it's not enough to just invest. I've seen people do this with like big investments where they'll invest in something like the elite mastermind and they don't come to any of the calls and they don't reach out to any of the like, and that's not that's exception, not the norm. But like, they don't, you know, meet with somebody one on one. And I'm like, you're mad, like maximize your investment, like me, every single person, like I make that a priority when I'm in a mastermind is I'll reach out to every single person to have a coffee. And there's people who aren't a click. And there's people who become lifelong friends. Like, and you feel that energy, right? So I would say like really leaning into that and doing, you know, maybe three months of networking, I once got the advice of like, try to meet someone new every day. And at the end of the week, I always schedule like two or three hours where I follow up with all the people I'm at with and I'm like, Hey, I owe you this. I had a conversation with somebody about this and I want to make a connection. I end every single one of those calls with what do you need right now in your business? Like what's like, what's what's a slam dunk for you? You know, big sports girl over here. And sports, go sports, go sports, all these sports reference I can make. But yeah, like, I'm like, what's a slam dunk for you? Because sometimes people will be like, I just want to be on a few more podcasts. And I'm like, why have a podcasting agency with 50 podcasts? So like, let me make a few interests or something there. Or someone will be like, I'm looking for an intro to this person. And sometimes I'm like, I can't make that intro, because that's a relationship that I'm still cultivating or that person's kind of guarded or whatever. But like, what else are you looking for? How can I be helpful? Let me keep that in mind. So I just say like, even today, I was just telling you about a friend who has a co-working space. And I was like, yeah, I think Laurie would love to come work here. And like, when the time is right, I'll make the right introduction, right? Like it takes the time to do it the right way. I'm curious actually for you, and I know you're interviewing me, but like I love this. I like on both ways. Now this is my podcast. So I'm curious for you, like, as somebody who has like such a like, large like audience and such a, you know, you've cultivated so much community, like what what is a slam dunk for you in building those relationships when people are coming to your world and like, you know, are making asks, like, what's the best way for people to do that? Are you saying from like a, is somebody that I don't know, come in to make an ask to me? Yeah, definitely relationship. Like, if you have been in my DMs or you're sharing something, or maybe you're asking like, very well thought about questions, like one at a time, or you're commenting on things. Maybe I see you at events and you make a, you know, you come up and chat. Yeah. Making an effort. Yeah. Like you feel the effort and I know you feel the effort as well. Yeah. Christina, like people, we forget that these people that we're looking up to are people. Yeah. And they they want to feel connected to someone and it's actually quite crazy how quickly you can feel connected to people when they intentionally start showing up in your world. Yeah. And I can feel the energy of somebody. Also, this is really, really huge, you guys. This is something that I had to work on and I think is really big for you guys to work on when you're when you're networking is to make sure your energy is like clean when you're going for an ask or when you're going and I'll explain what I mean by clean because that's a weird word. I got it. Like if you are really like, I need this person to see me. I need this person to share my stuff. I need this person in order for my stuff to be successful. That energy is really, it's like a desperate feeling and people can feel it immediately. Like I can feel when someone feels like they believe they're reliant on my event to change their entire life that particular weekend. And I'm like, whoa, whoa, like this is going to take a lot of work on your part. And so I think it is the I feel when people are like, this is a relationship that I want to build. Not only because yes, you could probably do something great for me, but also because I am interested in you as a person. And I'm also here to reciprocate. Like that energy is what feels really good for me. No, I love that because I was going to say one of the things that I struggle with a lot in terms of like, you know, one of my businesses is called Hyven Women. It's an event for entrepreneurial women. It's in Canada. Americans welcome to it. The great event, you guys. Oh, thanks, Lori. But one of the things I really struggle with is like speakers is that people want to, they pitch me for speaking all the time. Like, and they'll book discovery calls through my other business and I'll get on the phone with them. They're like, I actually don't want any services, but I just want to tell you, I'm a great speaker. And I'm like, oh, you'll actually never speak. That was not the right way to do that. Right. And like, but I'm sure you feel this too. It's like this energy around like, I'm like, come to the event. Enjoy the event. Show up and add a ton of value with the event. Yeah. And there was somebody who came to like, you know, they pitched me to speak. I kind of was like, sorry, like it's not a fit right now. Nothing negative, just like full. And she came to the event and she added so much value. Like, the amount of people who came to me and they were like, oh, I actually got to take away from this person. Amazing. I was like, not a speaker. Like, you were sitting at a table and she, you know, that, but it was so amazing. Like she connected with so many people. She reached out to people after like, I heard over and over again, like I couldn't stop hearing her name. So then when we went to choose the next speaker, of course she was on the list, right? Like, yeah, she gave a little I gave a little, it was like, great, right. And even if things are not a no, like there are no right now, they're not no forever, but it's really about your actions and it can become a no forever depending on what you do next. Right. And so if you're like, Hey, that was a no, but like, I'm going to keep showing up and I'm going to keep being like, you know, 100 and I'm going to like show up with a lot of integrity. The opportunities will come. And I've, I've waited in that too, where it's like, there's been times where I'm like, I'd love to do this. And then it hasn't happened the way I wanted it to, but then I keep with the positive energy around it and it has happened later. So sometimes we, you know, don't want to block our blessings. Yeah. Oh my God. I love that you pointed that out. Because if you want to be in someone's world, you really actually have to go in their world first. Like you have to know what it is that Christina wants. What does she need at this event? Oh my gosh, where could you add value? Where could you see that? Hey, you know what? I got to spend last year in the audience and here was the main question. Here's where I feel like whether it's me or someone else, it's totally up to you. I'm going to come to your event anyway. Like that's the language in guys. Like no matter what, I'm going to be there because I want to support. Yeah. If you want help around this, awesome. If not, no worries. You know, I'm going to keep showing up. Like I'm your girl. Like that feels so supportive and not like it not needy and not a little like, Oh my gosh, I don't know how it's almost like those relationships can turn. I don't, I don't get them anymore because I can feel them. I can actually feel that energy.  and turn south very quickly where they get mad at you then. Oh, I've had this. I've had this recently. Not to get too specific, but someone had come to our event and felt very entitled to some stage time because they'd been to the event a few times and made that very clear to me. And it wasn't a no, but it just wasn't a no right then. Now it's a no. Because of the way the interaction went down. For me, it's like the high vibe women's stage, like my community, that is the most important thing I have. And so I'm gonna, other than my family and my child, but my business importance. So it's like, I'm gonna protect that. And I'm gonna only bring the best people there. And I am gonna really think about, and it's the same for you when you run girlfriends in business and when you're running the elite or whatever you're bringing in guest speakers. You're gonna bring in people who have a ton of integrity. And that is so important. And so if you're waiting for an opportunity, sometimes it can feel like it's not happening on your timeline, but if you just keep chipping away at it and asking for feedback, asking, saying, hey, I've pitched you five times on this and it's not a fit, clearly. I'm curious, what could I be doing? Is there anything I could be doing? And sometimes it's not you at all. And sometimes it is actually. And someone can give you some feedback that can slowly change your business. Yep, totally. And I think that is the other thing is if you're gonna, I think asking for feedback is so important if that's happening and you're not getting the answer that you want because you could be going and doing the same thing over and over and you guys aren't gonna get a yes because something is off, but you also have to be very open to the feedback. You have to know that some of it, yes, could be true. Some of it may just be from their opinion. So it's like taking that, gut checking with it, seeing how you can change, seeing if you can get more feedback from other people to see if this truly is a repeated pattern for you. Totally. So maybe taking that on and maybe going back to that person after you've integrated it and saying, hey, thank you so much for that feedback. Like maybe in the moment it was hard for me to hear, but I went back and I did this, this and that. You guys, that is like game changing for people. Totally. You will, your world will be rocked at how you can change relationships by actually really taking that on. So, okay, you are the co-founder of the social snippet in High Vibe Women, which we've talked about with your events. Let's start with the event because I feel like we've been talking about masterminds and events. Do you feel like people are really starting to crave more in person right now? Yeah, big time. And I actually think it's really like shifting since COVID, you know, where it's like everyone was online. I always say, you know, even mentor collective, like it's bumping in there. People love, they like ask tons of questions, they come to all your calls. So if you called it a great online community, there's great things that can happen. But I think in person, there's a really amazing magic that can happen and I think people are really noticing. So even in Canada, like High Vibe Women, when we started that, there weren't a lot of events. Like I couldn't find them. And now they're trying to pop up a lot more, which is awesome. And like I've even seen friends of mine run them, which is great. But I think people are really, really wanting that in-person connection because I do think that is where a lot of like long lasting relationships can happen. And you know this from being in-person masterminds. Like you go, you sit next to somebody, you have no idea that they can change your business in your life. So definitely seeing more of that. Okay, so tell me about your last High Vibe Women event. Yeah. What made you wanna start an event and tell me kind of like what that has done for you and what that's done for your community? Well, actually to be honest, like, you know, of course, you and Chris are part of the story in a way because I was in, you know, once you guys sold Fast Foundation to Jim and R.T., I was in that for a few years and I had the opportunity to coach in that as well. And what was so cool about that is Chris came to speak and you know, we were chatting and he said, I like, this is gonna be on my tombstone, but he wrote like the people who are gonna see success this year, this was like 2023. The people who are gonna see success this year are the people who are able to gather people in a room. And I was kind of like, what would that look like for me? I'm not a social media agency. Like why would I gather people in a room? Like make content, whatever. We were just starting with podcasting at that time. And I was like coming home and I was like, you know, I wish there was like a Fast Foundation feeling at home. Like I wish there was a way I could just get a group of people together for a stock business. So we started to run these little pop-up dinners, 10 people, 30 people. I know you're doing something similar as well with like your girlfriends. Like, you know, just getting a bunch of people together to like chat business. We started selling the ticket, this year it's selling out like rapid fire. People would come, we could not get them to leave. But it would be like five hours in and we'd be like, you don't have to go home, but you can't stay here. Like you gotta go. Like it's time to go. We were like shutting restaurants down. And so we started to run, you know, larger events. Cause really the idea behind it was like, behind High By Women is like bringing together women to grow their networks and magic in their business. And like this like energy I have around networking and Maria shares, we wanted to share with other people. Like be in the room, add value, make a connection, like offer support. Like, and like it's just, we just don't have as much in Canada as you guys do in the States. Like you guys have so many events like everywhere all the time. And now we're starting to get more, but at the time there wasn't much. And so we started to run it. We're on our fifth one that's coming up on March 7th, but I know we do two big ones a year. Like it goes by so fast. But our last one had 180 women. I'm from Crane Cultivate, come speak. She was amazing. Just Yvonne, who's been in the community, Miriam, who's in the elite mastermind. Seriously guys, all my friends, this is where they come from. I'm at Marina and Toss Foundations. So it's like, you know, get in the room. That's who will speak at your events. But yeah, that's really like, it was amazing. We had 180 women and people were like, this one was the best one yet. Everyone says that every time, which is so sweet. But really that the focus of it has been about them growing their network. Like the speakers are a huge piece of it. They inspire people. You can take a nugget. I can really chip your business. But really like our heart behind it is getting women to network with each other and pour into each other. Okay, so you are social media podcasting events. Let's talk about podcasting a bit. Because what is so full circle is that you are sitting in this chair right now because of a podcast. Totally. That we decided to do. And I could have literally never imagined like one that we'd offer podcasting as a service. Like never. I don't know how that would have even come into my brain. Just like that. You know what something happens you're like, duh, but like it takes you a while to get there. People can be like, will you offer podcasting? You'd be like, no, no, no. Absolutely not. And they'd be like, how is that different than social? No, no. And then now it's like our premium offering. But yeah, it's like it's been like a total journey. Right? Like from going to listening to podcasts to then now producing them. And now it's become like such a hack for so many business owners. Like I don't think everyone should have a podcast because it is definitely, I think, a huge time commitment as you know. That's what I was just gonna ask you. I'm like, do you think anyone can have a podcast? What does that look like? No, I don't, but not because I think if you want one, yes. But I think sometimes people do it for the wrong reasons. And I think there's a few things with podcasting that people don't realize. And I think the number one thing is that it is like the ultimate networking hack. It really is. Like I look at some of the people you've had on your podcast and it's like, do you think the connections came from you having a podcast? Christina, if I sat here and wrote down like all of the people who have come in my life or the miracles that have happened or the investors or the people that have come into our masterminds, the friendships that I've made, like a lot of my friends have come by way of my podcast. Which is, it's been the biggest, it's been one of the biggest investments in my life. Like time monetarily, energetically. Like it is no fucking joke. Like, oh, are you ready to show up twice a week, every week? Or more, no matter if you're like, I'm literally getting over a cold right now. It's like, no matter if you feel like a bag of ass, you're sick. So exactly something happens in your life that's traumatic. You lose somebody in your family. Like are you ready to show? Are you ready to continue showing up? It's not that you can't skip it, but it's that you are gonna have to live your life in a way that you are so committed to that, that life is gonna life you hard while you have, cause it just does anyway. So it's like, it's literally been the biggest investment, but the blessings on the other side are beyond, anything that I could sit here and ever tell you, I could sit for hours and try to tell everyone the blessing that it's been. Not to unoververse you again, but like when would you say you started to like see traction with your podcast monetarily? Like, because this is the question I get all the time where people are like, oh gosh. You know, it's funny. Like I'll have people in there like, oh, like I want a podcast, but like I want to monetize it in a year. And I'm like, you can monetize it with your own offerings like they want. So like talk about yourself, like the things you do, that's fine. But I know you actually have like ads and all of that. And your top 25 podcasts, you're in the charts. I'll take it, thank you. All the time, ice cream shot to Lori. She sends you guys, this is like one of my favorite. You want to know, like, I don't even know. It's just like such an active service. You screen shots when I'm in the top 25 and sends it to me. And it's in the morning cause she's way ahead, or she's ahead of me in time. I'm Pacific time, you're Eastern. And so I wake up to it at six AM with this little like, you know, screenshot. And I'm like, oh my gosh. I can't wait to look number one. Who does that? Number one, I'm calling you in the middle of the night. Girl, how are we gonna do that with all these paid spots now? Yeah, fair. Fair. If I get a number up to number like 10. Okay. Because the top 10 are usually always paid. Okay, great. It's a whole other thing. 10 and under, I can call you. 10 and under, we're like, that means that we just like, I don't even know what we did. We broke the system. Oh my God. I always see Chris too, cause I said to him one, it was like, I can't remember what number it was. Cause you know, you fluctuate. Like sometimes you're 25, even for me, sometimes I'm 60, sometimes I'm 200. Oh yeah. I'm like, oh, hi 200. You're like, don't screenshot that three. But I said Chris while that was like, and I was like, look, like you're in the top 200. And he's like, you do under 25 for Lori. Like, I'm like, okay, okay. But what would you say? Like, you know, you were able to like monetize it because I think that's a question a lot of podcasters have is like, you know, listening to your podcast, you've been at this a long time. Like you've been putting in the reps. So it's kind of like, you know, nine years. Yes. Like you've been working, working a muscle there, right? So how has that monetization journey looked for you? I'm like, is it 10 years? I think it's been almost, I think this year will be 10 years in May. Do we do an earn your happy party? I just want you guys to watch a lot of events. Oh, now I want to change the name. No, it's so crazy. I know it's just like 10 years ago as a different person is talking about this started as like happiness and self development. And it's been business like the last three or four years. So it's really interesting. But anyway, with that said, you know, I didn't necessarily get into the podcast for the ads game. That wasn't like what I was thinking when I first started. I wanted to convert people to our offerings. And I did that fairly quickly. Yeah. So I monetized it from the beginning fairly quickly. There's no way of totally knowing whatsoever what money came from that. But I will tell you in every room that we put on mastermind wise and that I would speak in, I would ask who listened to the podcast. Yeah. And if even if it was audiences that weren't mine, I swear to you, there there would always be at least like 10 to a third of the room, depending on how long I'd had the podcast. Yeah. And so I do know that we monetized right away, but we were also investing. I mean, a podcast can be anywhere from depending who you work with, you know, 1500 to 6000 to $7000 a month on how many episodes you have, how much you're doing on YouTube, videos, all of those things. So I did get to monetize on my things right away, but I didn't do ads until your my gosh, maybe it was your five or six. Wow, that's awesome. And I, you know, I first of all, I remember going into, I actually went into dear media to see if I could be partners with them and we had a meeting and it was wonderful. But some of the things that they were offering in terms of like when you get to be a part of them, which they're awesome, you guys have to know what your desired goals are. Yes, totally. And I wasn't able to have as much freedom with my podcast in terms of who I was going to have on, what they were going to advertise, what I was advertising. When, you know, did I have any leeway with if the, if the episode, if I was running a little bit late when it was going into production. And so you have to know thyself and you have to know what you want. So there's a pros and cons to every single ad agency and every single, you know, podcast agency that you would be going with. Yeah. So I think that you have to go in clearly with a podcast and know what your desired goals are from the top. A hundred percent. Yeah, I also, I don't know this is a hot take, but I think if you're in the podcast to monetize it, like ads wise, you might not be in it for the long haul, just because of how long it takes to get to that point, like you can't add programmatic ads until a thousand downloads, like a month. So from there, it's like, unless you're doing brand deals, which if you have a large audience, you could like kind of combine them. We've seen, we've clients who do that where they're not quite at the thousand, but maybe they have a huge Instagram following. So they're like, you know, thrown in reels and stuff like that, like lots you can do. But I really think it has to be for like the love of the conversation. It does. And love of the topic. I talk about the importance of sleep and reaching your goals all the time on this podcast. But I also know that you're probably wound pretty tight like I am. And you might have trouble transitioning from your daytime to your nighttime. So I added something that I absolutely love because, you know, skincare is a big thing for me in 2026. And I love Osea's Dream Collection. It's really helped change that for me. Osea's Dream Night Serum and Dream Night Cream are clinically tested formulas powered by Bio Retinol and designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep. You guys know that I am all about making the things you're already doing work for you. So why not make this work for you in your sleep? So I love this because it really helps me wind down not only because of this beautiful scent and how it feels on my skin, but I'm really loving that it's something that supports my nighttime ritual while I sleep. And it helps me settle in for the night because my skin feels so good. And again, it's got that nice lavender scent that I always associate to nighttime sleep because skincare truly is self-care, you guys. So Osea's newest product in the Dream Collection is the Dream Bio Retinol Body Serum. And let me tell you, skincare for me this year is not just about my face. It's about my whole body. So you should make this a key part of your personal body care routine just like I am. And I think you're going to fall in love with it. So it's a full body restorative treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a holistic blend of bio-retinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender. I think the second that you put it on, you're going to feel the difference just like I did. And you're going to see the difference. I mean, talk about looking like glass skin. I literally put it on and actually feel like I want to go somewhere because my skin looks so plump and hydrated and useful. So you guys, give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skincare from Osea. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site-wide with code EARN at oseamalaboo.com. And trust me, you're going to love this so much, you're going to want to buy one for your friends. Are you ready to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing in CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet ORA, Brevo's AI assistant. ORA helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. Of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and ORA. I love my podcast because I get to talk about community and events and marketing and I get to talk to amazing people and that's so fun for me. And so is it monetized now? Yeah, but at the same time it didn't start that way and I needed to keep putting in the reps. And so I think for people who are thinking about starting a podcast, we've launched over 50 podcasts. So I've seen people do it in the business niche, I've seen people do it in the weight loss niche, I've seen people do it at educators, like all different payment merchants, all different types but it has to be like you're down for the conversation. It really does because like you said, there's kind of a spot for your downloads in order to start making money and in order to start making money too, you have to know like, well, you're going to have to pay for the podcast first. Yeah, for sure. Okay, so a lot of people are going to have to find partners that just start to cover the 1500 to 5k or whatever that's like. What would you say is the average range of startup for cost? Yeah, I would say like if you aren't doing it yourself because like you can get crafty, right? Like this is the thing too, it doesn't need to look like this, right? Right. Even I are doing like this is probably an evolution of your podcast. It looks like this is in Laura's house. I'm just saying this is in Laura's house. I feel like I'm like, yeah, the massive studio but like it doesn't have to look like this. It can be on Riverside that you edit on Riverside yourself. It can look like that if you just want to get your message out. Like I have tons of resources on my website at thesocialsnipot.com. Yes. Where like we teach you how to do all this stuff for free. But I would say the average you're probably looking at 1500 to 2000 on the lower end. If you're not doing like really elaborate like YouTube videos and things like that. And YouTube is different than podcasting, but we're seeing that there's like such an uptick of people watching podcasts on YouTube. Yes. So, but are there super successful audio only podcasts? Yeah. And they do well, right? So it's really about finding your kind of jam with it. Okay. So you're going to want to find, you know, in the beginning when you don't have the downloads yet. Like I know you said a thousand is kind of where you can start finding something. If you want to work with an agency, they always want around 10,000. At least this is from the last like year that I've been working with people. They're looking for 10,000 downloads in the first two weeks, like per episode. Right. It's kind of like that range that they want you. And it can be a little lower. It can obviously of course be higher, but they want you within that range for the partners that they are placing on your podcast. And then once you guys get a partner, once you guys get an ad or an ad partner, like you can't skip your podcast. Yeah. Yeah. You have signed and said that you will have this episode for it to go out on. You will need to have an episode because they are paying you. So it is like now you are in and you absolutely by no circumstance can not have an episode go out or you will get a bad reputation and you will lose those partnerships because this world is very, very small. Yeah, totally. So you do have to know, I think from the beginning, if you're going to want to like exactly like you said, the ads game is completely different. Unless you're somebody like, I want to use an example. Let's say you're a person who owns a med spa and you have got like such a niche audience. And maybe it's not that large, but it's like a dream audience. They're tuning in because they want to know exactly what you're doing and you're giving great content and you get a partner who's already a partner for you in your med spa. Like maybe it's skin farm or maybe it's skin science, whatever, whatever, whatever type of partner that you know could pay you for that and you work out your own deals. This is what a lot of people do. You have like great people that would be the perfect fit for them. They already know they could probably capitalize on this because they know that their people will convert and maybe you work your own deal with them. Now, is there a world where you do that with people or that people have come to you and been like, Hey, how do I do this? Yeah, we don't do it for people, but I would say like, I've done this for my own podcast, right? And I do it for high vibe women because I collect sponsorships. And like if you have something else going on on top of your podcast, leverage that. Like that is the big thing I would say. It's like, you've got a good social media audience. If you've got a good email list, if like, you know, you run in person events, like that's actually how we started monetizing my podcast with ads was I would sell high vibe women sponsorships and I'd be like, you get 10 ads in my podcast. No one has ever asked me for my podcast numbers. Like no one. Like now it's like my podcast is like, you know, like growing and lots of good stuff's happening, which is awesome. But like it took a bit of time, like, you know, to get to that point, obviously, but like people are, I think not as savvy to podcast numbers as they are to social media numbers. I don't know. Would you agree? Yeah. And so I think it's like really like if you're going to go to partners, I think those dream partners are it like going to we actually have a mutual connection with somebody who she does like wellness stuff like GLP one, like that's kind of her niche. And she has a smaller podcast and she got it like super sponsored because she was able to be like, hi, like this is an ideal audience for you. Like you want to talk to these people, whether it's 50, 100, 200, 500 downloads, it's those are like like super engaged listeners. So I think don't knock it if you don't have a big audience, but I think really like those brand deals can be can be really helpful. What do we think? What what do you think for podcasting coming up this next year? Is it over saturated? Do you think people should still do it? Like how do you know you should do it? I think the way you know you should do it is if you have an inkling to do it. Like if you have like it on your heart, I hear this all the time, people are like 2026 goals, start a podcast. I'm like, that's your goal. Do it. Like if you're into it and you're okay with the long game, if you are someone who needs fast results with something, this isn't the media. Yeah, I agree. But I would say like also get smart with it. Use it for your social content. Like you do such a great job with this, right? Like we'll probably have a reel on this. Like, you know, you'll use many chat like things like that, like really make such a big difference. So I would say that's a piece of it. Like if you're feeling it, it's definitely not over saturated. And I always say this because people like think about Instagram. They're like, do you think I should like not go on Instagram? And like five years ago when I started my business, I was like, there's lots of people on Instagram. I don't know that I need a business Instagram. Imagine I didn't do that. Like I've great so much business through that. So it's like, don't you're not behind like the only thing you probably will behind on his Facebook. I would say like, you know, on Facebook, yeah, you can sit that one out. But like all the other ones, I think like it's never to that you have no idea what's going to hit like even tick tock. Like so many people are always like, well, tick tocks, tick tock, like already, like, you know, I've already started whatever you have one viral video that could change your whole life for sure. Business, right? So yeah, I think it's just about leaning in. Okay, Uno reverse for Lori now because I think people are actually going to want this information. Hey, do people Uno reverse you on this podcast? Like asking questions. No, I never said Uno reverse, but I love it. Yeah. Okay, perfect. Maybe it's a Canadian thing. You've never said Uno reverse before. Oh, no, only while playing. Play the game. If someone has a podcast and they're feeling that their podcast is small and they're like, how would you recommend that they grow their downloads? And what were the things that worked for you? Obviously it's a different season. I always say, I'm like, I would kill to have Lori's isogenic business go on Facebook alive. Like where would hit people like so fun. But like, what would you say now is the things that would maybe work to grow a podcast? Maybe like what worked for you? Oh my goodness. Okay, I think that growing your community is going to help you grow your podcast because there's no, there's not like an algorithm. It's not like people are going on and Apple is not trying to help you push your podcast out. It's almost like podcasts or like the book world where it's like, okay, yeah, you got your podcast, you got your book deal. Now what are you going to do to drive people to it? It's like when you get into a retail store with a product too, it's the same exact thing. Okay, cool. Yeah, we're not driving audience to the driving audience. So I think YouTube is a huge thing that I wish I would have done more of from the beginning. And now it's still, it's not too late at all. In fact, it's just really like people are really starting to discover podcasts from YouTube. So I think a YouTube having somebody on your team who's going to give you some YouTube shorts, you're going to do long, long form on there, like really growing your YouTube channel from that, because that is more discoverable. Yeah, YouTube is more discoverable and people are watching them on there. So they're not having to also move over to your podcast. They, you can really like grow your YouTube following there. For me, one of the biggest ways that this launches because I had an event and I launched the podcast at the event and I had an ask. So if you don't have to have an event to do this, but you can create a big moment with your audience and your people. So what I did is I said, hey, I'm launching my podcast. I can't remember what we did for them, but I had asked them for subscribes. And at the time it wasn't even subscribes. It was like, I don't know what you do. Fingerprints? I can't remember what it was, but then they, like, and if they could share it to some of their friends. So I had an audience of 300 people. I took a moment in the event to launch the podcast. And I think maybe I drew some names or did some different things for people or whatever. I can't remember what I gave away some things. But imagine if you could get your audience, even if it's like 50 people all at once, you guys, this is what you're trying to do. You're trying to drum up energy around the launch. So you need to create a launch moment for sure and get that out to the world. I did that with the second podcast that I launched when I did girlfriends in business for a while. We wrote a list of all of the people that would be willing to share it and go like rate and review it. That seemed to push it out to the world in a pretty good way. And that got that up in the charts pretty quickly. So what I would say is build community around it consistently. It's not always the big guests that are going to help you grow at all. I would say, though, it can definitely help. But I would write your dream list of guests and go after them, like, consistently. Like, be very, very consistent with your follow-up in order to get that person that you really want on the show and understand that you're a small show. It's probably going to take a really long time for you to get one of these people. Or the best way to get a larger person on your show is to join their community. Yeah. Add a ton of value. Be undeniably valuable. And then they'll probably end up coming on your show eventually. Yeah, I can't say that enough. Like, in terms of a relationship, so many people. I was like an OG and my friend group of having Chris on my podcast. I think it was like the first one of like all of us. And everyone was like, how did you do it? And I was like, I went to round table. And I asked him and then I came to Arizona and I recorded with him. It was like the whole thing, right? And I think it's that relationship piece is so big. And I was going to say on the launch piece, like, so we've launched over 50 podcasts and Armie Troll, Bestie Allie, Aruda. Yes. Love. Yeah, so much love. We're obsessed. We could sit here for hours and talk about her. I know. It would be nice if she was here. I know. We can have so much fun next time. Yeah. The next one. Yeah, that would be so sweet. Yeah, Allie's the best. But even Allie, when she launched her podcast, we launched it with her. And she ran an event. She had 100 women there. And that's what we did. We were like, hey, guys, you're here celebrating women inspiring women. We're doing the thing. Allie's launching the Inspire and Move podcast. We're so proud of her. And I did the ask. So it was like, last awkward for Allie. And I was like, love it. If you like rate, review, subscribe, download. And she was like number eight or nine in entrepreneurship. Amazing. Like, I was like, I scrolled down. I called her at 6 AM and I was like, Allie, this is crazy. It's not high enough. Oh my gosh. So cool. So but it just took that buzz and that momentum. And I think treating your podcast like it's a book launch. Like it's this thing that you're really excited about that you're proud of and that you're going to have some great conversations. And I also love what you shared about like big guests because I think people think that's their ticket. Like they'll like, they're like, I'm going to get a Lori at my podcast. And Lori is going to be the reason why everybody listens. And she might be. And I will say you are more gracious than a lot of big guests I've seen with clients in terms of sharing and like, you know, promoting other people's podcasts. When you're a guest, like you're, you're so gracious. But some busy people are busy people and promoting their podcast is their priority. So I would say if you do have a big guest, something to do, make it a slam dunk for why they should promote it, provide them assets, make a killer reel for them. That's like, you know, pay for it, pay for a real pay for a studio, like pay for that time so that this way it's actually like such a banger that people are like, Oh yeah, of course. So even like I've had you and I've had Jacqueline and Johnson and I've had Chris and I've had some amazing guests. And when I pitch bigger guests, I'm like, Hey, I've had these people. This is what it looked like. And people are like, Yeah, of course. Right. So it's really, I think adding that like extra value and for the guests as well. Is there anything else that you want to share around podcasting for people who are thinking about it? Yeah, I would just remind people like I think it's easy to feel like it is oversaturated.  and you scroll, and it's like, but so, there's a static, I can't remember what is off hand, but it's less than, it's like 70% of people don't get past the 10th episode. So it's like, you have the muscle for it, and you wanna do it, batch record a whole bunch of episodes. Set yourself up for interviews with a whole bunch of people. Get the equipment, you don't have to ball out and build yourself into a home podcasting studio unless you want to, but I would say don't go too hard, invest in it, invest in the time, and make it like a part of your business. And even working with somebody, whether that's me, whether that's someone else, like working with someone where you're able to talk to them about what is the monetization strategy behind this, what's the long-term vision of what this can do for my business? That's, I think, the important piece. What would you say to people who are, the content piece just gets a little overwhelming for people? How do we break that down and make it easier for them? And just so you guys know, a lot of my episodes for years and even still sometimes were recorded on my phone. Like, not even, without a microphone. Like, I'll still do it when I'm traveling into my voice record notes and I've never had a complaint about it. Yeah, I'm not complaining. I've never, no, maybe people hate it, but they haven't written a review and let me tell you, people write reviews pretty freely. But not about that, definitely about one of my funny reviews that I get is that I say, mm-hmm, too much and I'm like, oh, I'm so sorry about that. I'm not gonna stop. That's not gonna stop. I'm not gonna stop. Anyway, but they write reviews freely, but they haven't about my phone. How do we, how can we free people up around, you know, you can, you can like, it can just be you on the episode. It could be interviewing your partner. It could be interviewing a friend. Like, like free them up around content. It's like, I always use workout analogies. I don't know why it's like, but there's, because there's so many parallels, but I think like, it's like saying, I can't do the half marathon, so I'm not gonna take the walk. Yep. Oh, like it's still good for your body to go outside, right? It's still good to drink some water. It's like, you know, it's still good to, you know, take the, you know, dog for a walk or do whatever, right? And so it's the same thing with podcasting. Like, it doesn't have to be perfect. It could just be you. It could be you in the closet. Like some, Jenna Kutcher, like that's how she got started. It's like in her closet with her Mac. Like that, and that she has a top rated podcast. So like, there's so many things that like, you can do to make it like really simple for yourself and just like dropping the perfectionism. And really it is a little bit about like the muscle and the consistency. Your first ones are gonna suck. They're gonna look back on them. You're gonna be like, oh, like, I actually don't even recommend people like interview their dream guests as their first people. Oh God, I know. The only, you know, I'll give a shout out you, cause you were the guest and Elizano is a client of mine. And she has had such a Jillian Harris, like always like bang her guests, right? Like so good. And she's done such a good job. But normally when people are like, oh, I'm gonna be going after people with huge followings. I'm always like, I would try some friends. Like, give yourself a year. Just talk to a few people, right? So you can have people that like, you know, you just try it, just flex the muscle, get content on it. And if you're doing it scrappy, like take little clips and post them. You never know what's gonna like resonate with people. And I've been surprised like some of my best like performing episodes when I look at the stats. One, it's like things that people search SEO rich titles. Like that's the big one is that like people wanna know like how to rank on chat, GPT, like just things where I can teach. But the other thing it's more like, you know, little ones where I was like, hey, I just was at this event and I had this download about this event. And like, I'm like, I'm recording this in the hotel room. There's no video. I'm doing this. I'm like, you know, I have a little mini mic that was $20. I just plug in. So I think like, yeah, just like leaving some of that behind and even hearing from people like Lori who have great podcasts that like, it doesn't have to look perfect all the time. It's not going to. Yeah. It is not going to. And I would say if you asked a consistent podcaster how they felt about their podcast, who's not like diary of a CEO or Mal Robbins who has like 30 people on her team or 60 people, like literally you don't feel amazing about your content all the time. I would say a third of my content, I'm like, okay, that's pretty good. Like great job. The rest you get in here and you do the reps. Like it's just, it's literally exactly like the gym. Yeah, same Tonya. Yeah. Like maybe two workouts a month. And I'm like, whoa, like really went hard, crushed it, like rocked that. A lot of them you guys are, they're challenging. They're like, okay, I'm here. That's how it feels. And it will turn you into an absolute like networking ninja. It will turn you into like an incredible speaker, somebody who's able to not only talk and fill space when needed, but can also deeply listen and manage a conversation. You're gonna learn how to do sales. You're gonna learn how to close people. You're gonna learn what motivates people, what drives them. You're gonna like be so compassionate. There's so many things that you are about to get in masterclass if you're thinking of starting a podcast. It's so not about like, I would do this for free because I have. I will continue to do this for free because I'll have a bad day, Christina. And all of a sudden I'm like sitting in it like across from you, you know? And I just remember my why. It's like I remember this is about people. This is about what we're doing together. This is about our biggest vision. This is about helping people reach their biggest dreams. And it's like, that's right. Because people remind you when you're in deep conversation. And you have no idea like where your podcast is gonna land for someone. Or someone who's gonna binge an old episode or like something's gonna come up. And it's like, I've had it so many times already where like people have been like, oh, I was listening to this episode and I actually felt like I was about to give up on my business and you gave this great tip. And then like reminding me, I should just keep it going. And I'm like, oh great, I didn't even know who you are. So that's like very kind that you listen to my podcast. But it's really about that. And I think like, Lori, we have a mutual connection of someone who was like thinking about taking their life and listen to your podcast. And like they're still here, right? That's literally life. I'm like, I'm about to eat this. That's literally life changing. Literally. Even if you just had that one situation from your 10 years of podcasting, it's all worth it. That's already everything. Right? And so I think it's like, you have no idea the impact that you could have on someone. And I think this was events. I think this was like, even like, you know, mentor collective, like the questions people are asking, they're getting this a real time advice. They're in it, right? Like a lot of people who are in mentor collective, they're like, they're in it in their business, right? They're trying to scale past 500K. They're grinding their house, like they're doing the thing. And maybe they're not seeing results until they get into that room. And then they get all these people who are cheering them on and supporting them and accountability in your mentorship. And it's like, that makes all the difference. And so it's the same thing with podcasting, where it's like, keep it going, keep trying. Like, and your first episode, you might get 10 downloads. And two of them might be your parents. Yeah. Exactly. And the rest are your friends. Yeah. Message me if you're under 10 downloads. I'll download you. But like, it's just, I think it's really just about, you know, seeing the long vision for your business. And anyone I think who listens to your podcast and who's in your community, I think would resonate with this is that, yes, we do this for money, right? Like, you know, it's nice to buy things. But your dogs need treats. They really do. Yeah, they do. But ultimately, like what we're doing is purpose. And what an amazing way that we get to share our purpose with people, where they get to listen to us in their earbuds when they're driving their kids to school, when they're like, even I think about, you know, Chris, like, I was in such a vulnerable season of my life, right? I'm working a nine to five. I don't love. I have this side hustle that's booming. I'm from an immigrant family. I'm a first generation Canadian. I'm the first person in my family to go to college. Like, and I can't leave all that behind to do social media. And I'm listening to this person telling me anything's possible. Like listening to your family's story, listening to like the things that change for you guys when you believe in yourselves, how much that poor belief into me. And now I get the opportunity to poor believe through having women, through my clients and to other people. This all came from a podcast. Yeah. So it's just like, believe that this is possible for you two, no matter if it's 10 downloads or 10,000. Mm-hmm. I mean, I remember so much of this started because I listened to Lewis House podcast. I mean, like it started everything for me because I would go on my runs and I would just listen over and over and Gabby Bernstein too, those two, like over and over and over and over again. And that literally gave me the life and the path to be able to do all of this, which then, yeah, nobody knows the impact you're about to create. So I'm excited for everybody listening. I love the fact that we get to work together and mentor a collective mastermind as well. Yes. So you also coach people in there and everybody's obsessed with you. Oh, so sweet. I'm just being honest. Aw. I'm a Sagittarius. Yeah, yeah. You weren't obsessed with me, you tell me. Yeah, I would. Yeah. You would, well, you just wouldn't know. You wouldn't, you just, I wouldn't say anything. Yeah. But I was with the Sagittarius too, I know. Yeah, you just don't say anything. You're just like, uh-huh. I'm like, what do you think of this dress? He's like, it's on. Okay. It's on. Got it, changing. Got it. But also, you have your businesses too. Yeah. So tell me about how we can work with you. Oh, so sweet. Yeah, so obviously we've got Have I Women, which is our events company, and we run our events with an online community as well, which Lori just taught and absolutely slayed. So many people are using the term informed girlfriend now all the time. Yeah. They're like, so Lori was talking about the informed girlfriend theory. I'm like, I don't think it's a theory. This is not published anywhere. So yeah, you're gonna have to trademark this too. But yeah, so we've got Have I Women, which is an amazing community. We have an event March 7th in Browlington, Ontario. But and then I've got the social snippet, which is where we do Done For You social media and Done For You podcasting. Got about 90 clients now, which is amazing. It's grown so much over the years, which has been awesome. That's amazing. Yeah, it's the best. It's so cool. And it's like, I see people really grow, which is the best part of it for me is that like, we have like, we have original day one clients that have been with us for five years. And like, so being with them, being part of their journey has been absolutely amazing. So yeah, those are kind of my two ventures, but you can also find me in the mentor collective where I get to coach on all things social, all things podcasting, you know, supporting myself with marketing, like in terms of like, cause people get to ask so many questions and they're always like, I'm not marketing. I'm like, that's not me. That's Melissa. But it's yeah, it's so great to be able to collaborate. And the questions people ask and they're so amazing, but that's a great place for people to get both of us. It's very true. So fun. I know, so fun. Well, it's so much fun talking to you on this podcast next time you're in America. Come back. Yeah, likewise. I'm honored to be here, of course. And maybe we're galley with me next time, but no, I'm just so honored, Lori. And like you guys are just such a big part of my story. And so anytime you ask me to do literally anything, I'll do it. So I'm here, but. Noted. Yeah, I'm not a kidding. I'm there, but yeah, I'm just so grateful for you. And I know that your impact journey is just the beginning. I'm just part of the little chicken nuggets there. I'm so grateful for you, truly. You guys go find her, go follow her. She's a living, breathing, walking example of exactly how you will be successful. And you will be successful for the rest of your life because of how you are and the value that you add. So thanks again. Oh, Lori, thank you so much. Cry. Bye, everyone. Yeah, bye. Curve with the frog. Ha, ha, ha.

=== FILE: Why “I Don’t Care Anymore” Is a Sign of Growth in Your Midlife with Dr. Mindy Pelz (Part 2) [xHLu0-Aa7uE].txt ===

 I love when women are like, I don't know, all of a sudden I just can't do that thing anymore that I did for my family. I can't give my career everything, I can't lose myself. There's a woman who basically like snapped one day and went to her phone and was like, I'm starting a We Do Not Care Club. And she was like, here are all the things I don't care about anymore, and I'm putting the world on notice that I won't be doing this. We love her already. And I was like, oh my God, I can neurochemically explain that. If that's you, that is normal. We all know something is happening to us in our 40s, and we all know anybody who's in their late 30s, early 40s, 40s period, and of course 50s, but 40s I think is just this like, I think there's this expectation that you're supposed to have it all together and you should feel happy. And all of a sudden we're all finding ourselves in this position of like, wait, I don't know if anything I've built is actually like working for me. I'm not sure if this, I'm watching a lot of friends go, I'm not sure if this marriage is working for me, leaving a lot of marriages, leaving a lot of jobs, trying to figure out what their new purpose is. Like it is very much like a time of reassessment. Yes. And trying to figure out where you fit again. And I think this is such an empowering conversation, because if you know you're meant for leadership, you can also go, where can I go and step in and use this wisdom that I know that I have. Exactly. Yeah. You just nailed it. And what made me so why, and this was why I was like, I have to write this book and connect all these dots is that so many women fear becoming invisible. Totally. So I used to have women in my clinic, like I would ask them their age and they're like, oh, I'm not going to tell you. And I'm like, okay, like, well, that's not going to help me. I know, I know. I'm like, why, like what is going on that makes you not want to like, because they're so and they were like career women that didn't want people to know their age, because God forbid they wouldn't be relevant. Right. So, so you've got that. I want to touch on the marriage thing, because when we put this book together, I had a couple of collaborative writers. And one of the things I kept saying is, I don't want this to be a divorce book. Right. We hear so much right now about the gray divorce. It's like a super popular thing in the zeitgeist. But what's happening is women are doing exactly what you just said, where they're like, wait a second, I built this life in a certain way. And I don't like that anymore. I don't want the life that I build. I want it to be this way. And I'll use myself as an example. My kids are 25 and 23. Our house was the house that everybody hung out at. So fun. So fun. Right. And I loved having all the kids around and the kitchen was always messy. A lot of purpose and identity. A lot of purpose and identity. When I hit my late 40s, all of a sudden I was like, I can't take the kitchen dirty. I can't take the kids making noise at 10 o'clock at night. Like I started to change my preferences. And at first I would tell my son, my daughter was off to college. I would tell my son and husband and they were like, I don't know who you are. Like you used to love having everybody over. I'm like, I don't love it so much anymore. And so we had to have a discussion about that. I can't wake up to the dirty kitchen. We had to have a discussion about that. And then that morphed into all of a sudden I started craving solitude. And so I had to go to my husband and be like, I think I want to go on vacation by myself. I think I need to go spend a weekend by myself. And he at first was like, what is going on? Totally. And I was like, I don't know. I need to do something different because this very extroverted family life that we have is no longer matching me. And so, but we had a conversation around it. And in age like a girl, I actually wrote an appendix to men because I think that's the more moment that women are like, this marriage doesn't fit anymore. But if we bring our husbands into the conversation and explain why, and if our husbands understand why we're going through this transformation, then all of a sudden a new marriage can emerge from a new version of the marriage. And that's really important to you. Yeah, that's so powerful to bring. I mean, thankfully, I learned early on to like bring my husband into a lot of things and even family in order for those conversations to work. But a lot of people don't don't know how to do that, especially when you're going through something that feels hard like that. That's right. Like you must have felt in the beginning like, Oh my God, why do I need solitude? Like sometimes you're like, do I want to be away from them? Is it because we're not, you know, meshing anymore? We're not interested in each other. Again, this is so powerful and important because all of a sudden people could be throwing things away that if you just have some hard conversations around them, it's could be even more beautiful on the other side. Yeah, you know, it's interesting. Two of my closest friends left their marriages during this time. And I spent a lot of time with them, wondering, asking them and trying to understand why. And both of them said, if my husband had understood what I was going through, I didn't want to leave. But I was changing. And in that change, he wasn't happy about that. He liked the old version. He liked the way our marriage was, but the marriage didn't fit me anymore. Yeah. So you have on one level that what my husband and I have done is I started looking at Julie Gottman's work and I started looking at Esther Astaire Perrell's work. And Astaire says something that really hit me. She said, most adults will fall in love with two to three people in their adult life. Some that will be with two to three different people and others that will be two to three will be with the same person. And so my husband and I started calling the marriage we had before kids, marriage 1.0. We're like marriage with kids is marriage 2.0. And the version that we're creating is empty nesters now is marriage 3.0. So instead of leaving the marriage, I've been like, can we reinvent this where it fits now better for the person I've become? And when I wrote Age Like a Girl, I actually isolated myself. I got a Airbnb in Santa Cruz, California, and for four months I lived by myself writing this book. It was so enjoyable. I have never had that much time to myself. Took a little bit of convincing to let my husband know, I'm not leaving you. I'm just needing to go in and anchor to myself and find myself. And honestly, the marriage is better because of that micro break like that. For sure. And you probably just got to like, I mean, you get to like dig so deeply into something that feels you're so passionate about and know that needs to come out. And I feel like sometimes when we get interruptions of that and if people don't understand, you don't even mean to get resentful of things. But if we're not doing what you're saying where you're like actually taking like standing up for yourself and doing the things that you want after years and years of probably living for other people. That's right. I think this time, exactly what you're saying is it's just going to amplify what's not working if you don't start standing up for yourself. So like having these hard conversations that aren't hard once you start having them and then become regular things. So let's kind of tell me what you're finding with women right now who you're giving this information to. It's like, hey, you are changing. Yeah, actually getting more powerful. You are like, you know, you're going to stop people pleasing. How do we not go and like blow up our lives with this information and just kind of start informing maybe people around us and start integrating our desires back into our life? Yeah, that's a good question. So let me let me try to break it down. So I think the first thing that women have to understand is that we have been conditioned by and for lack of better words, I'm just going to say a patriarchal culture. And by patriarch, I mean power over. So in the book, I quote a feminist psychologist who started to look at girls in the 80s and she wanted to see when girls started to pull away from their authentic voice. And what she found is if she asked a girl and a boy a very specific question at nine that the boy and the girl will tell you exactly what they want. Let's use the example of food. If you ask a boy and a girl at nine, what do you want to eat? They both will tell you if you ask them both at 11, the boy will tell you, but the girl might might waver a little bit by the time puberty hits and she's 13. You ask that same question. The boy will tell you exactly what he wants. And the girl will say, I don't know what are you eating? And what Carol Gilligan discovered was that the culture started to train girls, especially around those teenage years when estrogen is coming in, that you are worthy when you are selfless. When you give your power and you're over to other people, when you do what other people want, not what you want. This tracks. Right? Thank you. Does that track for you? Oh, yeah. When I first learned. I know the exact ages. Yeah. I was like, Carol's work. I was like, oh my God, I was a teenager and I was, I was the kid. I was who she was. Exactly. She asked me what I wanted to eat and I couldn't tell her. Yeah, exactly. But I started to look at my own, my own teenage years and realizing that there was this real switch from who I was as a girl, which is why age like a girl is a really cool. I mean, we called it that because it's like a girl is my brand. Yeah. But really what I'm hoping people do is understand who they were before puberty hit. So, and then when I became a teenager, I started doing everything for love that every adult wanted the boys wanted. You know, anybody around me, if they said you should act or perform this way and you will be, they don't say it in the sense that you'll be loved. We start wrapping. We pick up on that, right? For sure. Yes. Like we wrap ourselves up and we're like, you know, if I'm a certain size, if I don't ruffle for anybody's feathers. If I, you know, I'm constantly pleasing you. Will you love me? And I think we have different degrees of that. So the first thing is we have to understand we've been conditioned to be worthy when we serve everybody else but ourselves. And that happened when estrogen came in. When estrogen goes away, we all of a sudden don't have those same desire to start to please everybody else. You said it when we sat down. I love when women are like, I don't know, all of a sudden I just can't do that thing anymore than I did for my family. Or I can't give my career everything. I can't lose myself to my career. I actually have to have a personal life now. Or family dynamics change where all of a sudden you're like, I'm not going to let my sibling run over me anymore. I'm going to actually start to speak up for myself. So the first thing to understand is that is normal. Have you seen the We Do Not Care Club that is like all over social media? No, I haven't seen it. So there's one woman. No, I'll see it now. Yeah, you'll see it. Yeah, probably our phones. Exactly. There's a woman who basically like snapped one day and went to her phone and was like, I'm starting a We Do Not Care Club. And she was like, here are all the things I don't care about anymore. And I'm just putting the, she literally says, I'm putting the world on notice that I won't be doing those things anymore. We love her already. Right, exactly. And I was like, oh my God, I can neurochemically explain that. So what I hope all the women that are listening is if that's you, that is normal. And we have to open this conversation up that you were meant to drop the exhausting people pleasing ways. You were meant to start to live for yourself and not for everybody else. That is what's going on. The brain rewiring that's happening during this time is setting you up for freedom. And you finally get to stand and speak your truth. Now, that might not work so well in a marriage. What happens to your career? I mean, that's why we have to have conversations about this and we need to bring this to the forefront so that we can start to see, oh, that woman is doing that because she's neurochemically shifted. Through this menopausal journey, not because she's becoming mean or angry. We don't like our women angry in this culture. But what I want women to know is that is normal and you are meant to speak your truth now. Look at like Jane Fonda. If you start to look at women in their 60s, 70s and 80s, that is our most productive years. And you know, Jane Fonda, she's always, she's still out doing amazing things. Love her. Yeah. And one of my favorite quotes, and this is not to get political, but Michelle Obama got so much flack when she, a couple of years ago for not showing up at certain traditional events that an ex first lady would show up. Yeah. And everybody was like, oh my God, are you leaving Barak? And she's like, no, I'm actually just doing things for myself now. So when you start to see this, you start to see that so many women go to the other side of menopause and they start living life on their terms. I feel like it's our get out of free out of jail free card because our brain no longer can hold back our own opinions because with the loss of estrogen, those neurons pruned away that kept you and people pleasing and new neurons are forming that are making you more of an independent thinker. So it's helpful to know because once you know what's going on, I think you can make less kind of snap decisions. That's right. You can look at it for what it is and go, okay, well, I can turn the ship. I don't have to just like shed everything immediately. Yeah. And you can if you want, for sure, but you have to know there's probably going to be some like relational repercussions. That's right. Or you can like sit down, talk, look at how you could change some different things in your career. I mean, even right now, I've been having I've been starting to have these conversations just on the podcast because, you know, menopause is perimenopause and hormones is such a hot topic right now. I'm like learning about learning about this has been really empowering to me because if I can kind of see what's coming and start to know it and I'm already starting to like feel these ways of just, you know, telling you, telling Mindy when she sat down, like I just am feeling this very almost like this very audacious version of me that is like so opposite of who I used to be. Yeah. Like, oh, I wouldn't have, you know, I will dress the way I think will keep me in like in the tribe and I will speak the way that will keep me in. And I will talk about God in the way that will keep me in or not talk about God in the way that. Yeah. It's just all of the things that I actually stood for it was like, no, we'll keep it all in a closet until I know what is safe and no one's going to know anything. And I think learning about all of these things now lets me go. Okay, if I know this is like how I'm starting to feel and what's coming, I would start kind of like turning the ship of my career. Yeah. How would I start really looking at assessing when I'm in these different like at these different events? Do I still belong here? Do I still have being like, fuck that event. Those girls are like, like, that's not there's there's phases for all of these different things. And I think it's like, that's maybe the wisdom that comes from it is going. Wow, there are there are such beautiful phases to life. And if we can understand the ones we're in, yes, you can make the most of it. That is so well said. And thank you for transparency too. And this is one thing I'm trying to do with this book is we all need to share the journey with each other because then it normalizes it. Totally. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss. You become the leader that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made the sleep from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built into you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard in 2026. Stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com slash happy. Go to shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more when you're starting a business, you need Northwest registered agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it like operating agreements, meeting minutes and thousands of how to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you this is life changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. What you just described as and I'm just going to call it the menstruating version of you even though I know you still have a cycle, but let's go back to like when we were actively you're probably at your age considered peri-manipausal. Yeah. So but we estrogen kept us tethered to people pleasing it really like it's that simple. It kept us tethered to having to outsource who we were authentically meant to be. And when estrogen goes away, we start to see glimmers of ourselves and what who we are meant to be. And that is really scary because how do you create that conversation in your family, your marriage or work? You have to recognize yourself first, which if I look at where you're at now that you know this when you start to do behaviors that might seem unusual for your husband. Instead of that creating a fight. Now what you can say is like, look, I'm getting deeper into menopause and menopause is this moment where I'm starting to really understand what I want, not what everybody else wanted for me. Yeah. And that is a much better conversation in a loving relationship than the, you know, couples fighting and going, you used to do this and now you don't do that. So we have to understand that you're literally hearing your authentic voice as you move into this and who you really want to be before we started pleasing the culture. Which you guys this is so when I when I think of what I remember like 10 years ago, I wrote a post maybe was it 10 years ago, maybe seven years ago. But I had I had written I'd like sat down and I'm like, I feel like I need to tell people this was like this moment where looking back, I was so young. But it's like to me that felt still like a very young age looking back. But at the moment it felt old and I felt like I was starting to be like looked over by society and especially coming from the background. I came out in fitness and I was a cover model and like, you know, that you're very tied to your, your badge. And so like breaking that I and I knew I would need to break that it's kind of like I was very aware of like, yeah, you're going to need to find a lot more purpose than this or you're going to have a very rough like experience in your life. And so built up a lot of purpose but still had this moment of like, wow, I feel like as you get into your late 30s, there is like this conversation around women start to like age out. Like that that saying of like, oh, you're aged out or some people start commenting that and you're like, what does that mean? Like, oh, you're done. You're done. And I had a moment of feeling done for a second. And then I, you know, like just started really digging really deep about like, wait, what is all this wisdom that we do have? And I think that this is so important for women to understand that that wisdom is literally just getting started. Exactly. That's exactly it. Access at all that. Right. That thing is so well set. Like if you're if and this is why when we look at perimenopause, we talk about the brain fog and irritability and the rage. Yeah. Yes. Part of that is hormone replacement therapy might be what you need, but it's not. Don't lose the moment there because your rage might be that you're really angry because you have not been able to stand in your own power. You haven't been able to speak your own truth or like you were you were like in a culture that you got paid for how you look. Yeah. And so now you're like, I don't want to play that game anymore. But then you're left without an identity, which is huge. And so then the rage shows up, the resentment shows up, the irritability shows up until we have conversations about, wait a second, that was supposed to happen. You are now moving into the next phase of your life where you get to finally think and behave the way you want to behave. I had a really cool. Well, it wasn't cool in the moment, but it's always the best thing later in the moment. You're like, oh, yeah. So I tell the story in the book. I was living in the Palisades when the fires hit and I grew up in Malibu and I had raised my family and had my practice in Northern California and I had moved back to LA and was going to make that my home now. My husband and I were going to be looking at maybe half time living in Northern California, half time in LA. And I was already really exhausted from launching fast like a girl and eat like a girl. And I just wanted to kind of settle into the Palisades home and write and just chill out for a while. And then the fire is hit and I evacuated the Palisades the morning of the fires with Sunset Boulevard completely on fire. I don't know if you saw all the pieces of the news, but palm trees were on fire falling on top of cars. I was in that mess. Wow. And then I got to a hotel in Santa Monica and five hours later I had to evacuate from there. And then the next day I went to Lisa Billiou's house in West Hollywood Hills and we had to evacuate from there. So 36, 48 hours of running from fire and I broke. And at the same time, and this is this is what we do as women at the same time, I was leading 100,000 people through a three day water fast. Oh my God. So I had people all over the world in the middle of a water fast. So here I am literally leaving my Canyon with everything on fire and I'm saying to my husband, I just need to get to a parking lot so that I can lead. I'll get on the call in an hour. Yeah. Wow. And he's like, honey, you need to get safe. Yeah, handle the call. Oh my God. But it's like, yeah, isn't that what we do as women were like, I'm sorry. I might be like, like my world's on fire. Yeah, let me make sure you guys are all good. Exactly. Yeah. So I missed the call that day, but then I that was a Tuesday and then Wednesday and Thursday I let everybody through I was at Lisa's house. And on Friday when the last call happened, I said to this group of 100,000 people, I was like, I'm just going to be really honest with you all. I'm not okay. And I have not been okay for a really long time. I'm completely burnt out. I can't find myself. And what I want you to know is I don't want you all to worry about me because I'll find okay. But I just need to publicly announce I'm not okay. And I feel like a lot of women are like that. And in the chat, if you feel like you're not okay. Oh, my God, wow, the chat just blew up and so many women were like, I'm not okay. I'm not okay. Thank you for giving me permission to say I'm not okay. Makes me want to cry. It was so freeing. And then, you know what I did? I actually called my parents the next day who I have on a pedestal and I'm still wanting to please. And I was like, Hey, y'all, I need you know, I'm not okay. And, but don't worry about me. I'm going to find okay, but I need to start to heal myself now. And then I went to my adult children and I called both of them independently and I'm like, I just want you to know I'm not okay, but I'm going to find okay. I'm going to isolate myself for a while. I need to heal myself. And you know what my son said to me? He was 21 and he said, you know what you need, mom? You need to reset. I was like, I do. I do. I really do. You got plans? I did. But my point in sharing the story is there was something about like, I need to put down the facade that I've got it all handled. Yeah. And that's what happens to us when we go through this menopausal experience is we're being given the opportunity to put that down and to say, I'm actually going to live life by my rules now. And when we look at the suicide rates, I think that happened to those women when they went to kill themselves. They didn't know the door out and they were feeling like they couldn't put the mask on anymore. And when I look at the divorce rates, I think a lot of women enter in merit into marriage with one version of them, but somewhere down the marriage line, there are different version now. And that's why this book is so important to me is we have to bring these conversations out and allow women to change. We let teenagers change. Yeah. Like, you know, a girl goes from like a 10 year old and she's like your best friend. And then at 14, you look at her wrong and she wants to, you know, walk out of the room and we go, oh, that's, you know, that's part of the teenage process. But we don't give menopausal women the same grace. Hmm. Okay, I hope this book sells millions and millions and millions because imagine what would happen if women in their 40s, 50s and 60s actually started speaking more wisdom, like found it. Yep. Like, you need to bring, okay, idea, you need to literally started out like a grandma tribe, but we you can join it as soon as you're 40. That's a great idea. The only problem is a lot of baby grandma. Yeah, a baby grandma. Because a lot of people, we really wrestled with the grandmother hypothesis because a lot of, you know, there's a real trend for women to not have kids right now. I don't have kids. I'll be a grandma. Right. And a lot of women. Yeah. So, you know, we played with different versions. I share in the book, I studied Clarissa Pincola Estes' work and she wrote Women Who Run With the Wolves. And she wrote another book called Dangerous Women, which is one of my favorite. And she has a concept called the crone. And so many of us think of the crone as like, you're old and you're ugly and you're like witchy and you could push you away. But actually what crone means is crown. And so it's like, this is a time to put our crown on and actually to stand up and be who we really want to be. And I agree. We need to come together in that and give each other permission to change and lift each other up. I share in the book that when I went through this transformation, a lot of my friends are five and 10 years older than me. And it was so...  disorienting to feel like my identity as a human was changing. And when I went to my friends who were older than me, the most helpful statements they made were, Mindy, this is your initiation into you. I can't tell you how you do it. Wow, that's powerful. It's an amazing friend. And they were like, I can't tell you how to do it, but I can stand next to you as you do it and support you through the process. So if we create a grandmother tribe, that's what I envision this is like all women coming together and letting each other experience the transformation into the most authentic version of ourselves. And that to me, I mean, a billion women right now are in menopods, a billion women. Like imagine if a billion women stood up and finally told their truth. Like what would the world look like if we were truly authentically true to ourselves? It blows my mind. It does blow my mind. Well, I feel like you're going to start cracking some stuff open here. I hope. So exciting. Yeah. And I always say like, you know, a great question to ask an author is, why do you write a book? And for me, I write a book to open conversations. So with Fast and the Girl, we open the conversation up of, wait, what else should women be cycling? I started to watch that happen. People were like, oh, should I cycle my biohacks? Should I cycle my supplements? What else should I cycle? Yeah. And with age like a girl, I really want to open up this idea of like, this is our opportunity to be who we always wanted to be. And what does that look like? And how does that affect marriages? And, you know, I know you have a big entrepreneurial following. Like, how does that affect our work? I don't know if you see this in your community. But I know for me, I'm not interested in working seven days a week anymore. No, I definitely see that. Like, but as an entrepreneur. Right. We just signed up for Monday through Friday. Totally. I see a huge shift in women going, okay, I got to figure out how to work when I feel better, when you feel good. That's right. I know you can't just work when you're motivated, but starting to think like, when, when does this really work for me? Right. You're the best work out of you. Yeah. And when you're in your forties, you're got like, getting glimmers of this. But here's the great news is when you get like, I'm 56 and I've been post-menopausal for three years. And each year I go deeper and deeper into it. It gets easier and easier to stand up for myself. I literally just had this conversation with my husband yesterday who's CEO of our business. And I said, here's what I'll tell you. I'm willing to give the business four more weeks, launching this book into the world, working seven days a week, getting on planes and doing interviews like this, which are enjoyable, but they take you away. They take a lot. They take a lot out of you. And when I come home, starting in January, after the book has been released, I'm going back to working two days a week. So that the rest of the time I can finally do what I want to do. I've given myself over to my practice. I've given myself over to my marriage, to my family, to my family of origin. Like I've been a great steward of all those things at the expense of myself. And I'm like, now I'm not doing that anymore. And that feels natural to say. Yeah. And I think many women would say that. And I hear you sort of at the beginnings of the rumblings of that. Totally. And I think having the realization too that like, you're going to tap out and burn out. And you won't get, you know, I'm watching you created three bucks in a shorter period of time, but you will have to like going away and taking time is the only way to access more creativity and access more wisdom. Like doing, getting burnt out or, you know, doing all the things that everyone else wants you to do. It's like it cuts off the wisdom from everything. Yes. Julie Gottman, I was sitting with her in a meeting back in April and we were talking about resentment and she said in a marriage, and I think this applies to our businesses as well, we become resentful when we say yes to the things we really want to say. Oh yeah. Right. Oh yeah. And think about that with our own businesses is that we say yes, because we're like, I got to do it for the business. I got to do it for the growth. But then we actually become resentful for our own career. And so that's what starts to shift as we go into the art, our post-menopausal years. And hopefully with this new wisdom that we're all gaining from books like mine. And I mean, there's a lot of great books out there sort of speaking this truth right now is that we can actually reinvent ourselves and our businesses to work for us and work smarter, not harder and actually talk about the things we want to talk about and talk about the things that light us up, not what the algorithm wants us to talk about. Free yourself. Yes. Free yourself. Free your energy. Exactly. Be with the people you want to be with. Exactly. Do the things you want to do. Yeah. It's very possible. It just takes those conversations. I mean, I think awareness is where it all begins. Yeah. And I think that's what you're, well, I know that's what you're doing with this book. So I'm so excited. I'm so excited for everyone to read it so we can get it where all books are sold. Yep. You can get it anywhere. It'll be out and about in the world. Age like a girl. Yep. And I will put everything in the show notes for you guys. All you have to do is just scroll down on this and you can see all of the things and we'll connect where to follow you and all that fun stuff too. So thank you so much for coming on again. Thank you, Laurie. I love talking to you. Oh, I always love your energy and you're so much fun and energetic and hilarious and it's just like such a good conversation with you. So thank you so much. Yeah. Thank you. And I love that as my little girl was ridiculed for her humor. And now I get to use it to my advantage. There's a classic example of like how many of us were like shamed for some behavior. And so I smile when you say that. So thank you. Humor, Sebastian. It's my favorite. It's my favorite thing. Exactly. Thank you again so much.

=== FILE: Why “Personal Branding” Isn’t Enough Anymore (And What Actually Works Now) with Cynthia Garcia [O2ABpBW2_ag].txt ===

 you talk about the living brand, and we were just saying, like, it's January 2026, it is a very different time. Everything changed last year. Everything. It's a very different concept. People don't do it this way, because, again, I've made over $100 million, and I still have less than 40,000 followers. So it's not about being undeniable and viral in World Famous, it's about being undeniable to the right people. Cynthia, welcome to the podcast. Thank you for coming on. Thanks for having me. I'm so excited that we get to sit down. So I don't know if you know how I found out about you, but I had gone down to speak at Samantha Skelly's event, and I got there after you, and everyone was like, oh, my God, Cynthia was just here, and she's amazing, and you know her, right? You guys know each other? And I was like, no, I don't know her. And I was like, you have to know. Like, three people came up to me and said, you have to know her, sent me home with a bag of your product. And I was like, all right, well, I have to know her. So I literally just took that as a mission of like, OK, well, let's get around the podcast as soon as possible, because three people said I have to know you. So I'm already happy about it. Okay. That means we have 30 seconds. I'm like, well, are you disappointed? No, I'm so happy. Are you going to go back to those people and go, what the fuck were you thinking? No, I'm already like, what I want the outfit links. I'm already using your serum, which we're going to talk about. Yeah. So I'm very excited. So welcome, welcome. Thank you. You know, though, I had heard the same thing. So I was out to dinner with a couple of friends and and Sean Stevenson. And I said, I'm speaking at this thing. And and I they brought you up before because I think maybe Sean has worked with you or yeah, we've done a few. I think we've run a few podcasts together. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So they kept saying, you guys are so much alike, you should totally connect. And I was like, OK, so here we are. I love that. I follow those now. Like I just follow those little nudges. And I know you're starting a podcast. Yeah. What's it called again? I want to thank myself. I'd like to thank myself. Thank myself. I love that. It's very it does. It does give Snoop Dogg in the best way. You know, it's funny. Everyone says that now. And I actually had the name before Snoop. But you know what? You know what? Though Snoop is new, someone to let him own it. And I think it's I think it's amazing. I think it's only going to raise raise it because I literally. It brings like familiarity. Yeah. Of like, no, we all know what that is. Like even social media has brought so much around like, no, I also really need to bring attention to myself. It's important. And I think that we're in the day and age now or maybe I'm just at the age where I feel like we thank everybody, right? We think our teams, we think our parent, we think the academy, you know, and when's the last time you stopped to thank yourself for not giving up for the long nights when all you fucking wanted to do was quit and somehow found a way through it. Yeah. Or, you know, it's just like for showing up day after day, year after year, because you had this mission, you had something to say, you had people to serve. I think that oftentimes we put ourselves last in that whole Academy Award speech. And I think it's time for that to change. So you started from a like a completely different background than where you're at right now. You could say that. Yeah. So tell me because I was reading your story and I was like, this is insane. So tell me a little bit about your backstory. Yeah. So I did not grow up in this world that we're in. No, either. Yeah, true. Which is I read, was looking at your story. You've come through some crazy stuff. But I grew up in the Appalachian Mountains where, yeah, I know. If you've ever seen the movie Deliverance, those were my neighbors and that was my family. Yes, I understand that actually. You get it? My family was all in a trailer park. Yeah. So that would have been an upgrade from me. My friend JJ always introduces me. She's like, she grew up in a trailer and I'm like, first of all, we have to start with that. And second of all, it wasn't a trailer. So we actually lived in a three room shack that had no running water. Yeah, we had an outhouse that we use and I'm not that old like I'm getting older, but I'm not that old. You know, it wasn't the 1800s. And my dad was an alcoholic and did a lot of drugs. My mom was doing the best she could from a traumatic upbringing herself. And so we were very, very poor. I remember, you know, not only we not have running water, but I would dumpster dive for clothes. As I got older, I, and luckily the town trash cans were like steps from our home. So was the creek and the Clint River. And so we would bathe in that in this. Yeah. And so that's kind of how I grew up. And with those households, you know, where there's drugs and poverty and just trauma, it's often breeds the worst case scenario. And so went through a lot of abuse at a very young age, physical abuse, mental abuse, was sexually abused for the first time at age five. So yeah, it was quite a different world from what I live in now. When did you get out of that? It took a long time as you would imagine because there was no, I mean, I didn't ever see anyone in entrepreneurship. Did you like, you have family? No, I didn't even know that word. No, I knew go to college and get a degree. And I was like, well, who the fuck is going to pay for that? Like, I had no idea how to, how do you go to college? You just go there one day and I had no idea. And my family had no idea. And so I, but the time that everything changed for me was this moment. I had always known that I didn't want that life to be my life. Yeah. Because even though I didn't have people around me, I had books, right? Right. And so sometimes I'd find them in the trash can. And sometimes we got to go to the library the next town over and that was fun, or I'd get them at school, school library. And I would see how other people lived. And I started taking notes from a really young age. I was like, wait, Nancy Drew does what? Okay, write that down. And so when I was in eighth grade, Lori, I'll never forget this sitting in class. And this girl who I won't name her name, but I'll always remember it out loud in front of everyone as the classroom is really quiet. She said, what do you mean you don't have running water in your house? And it was like everyone just stopped and looked at me. My little face is red. And on the inside, I'm just falling apart. And all I could think was don't let them see you cry. Don't let them see you cry. And so my comeback to her, you'll love this is whatever one day I'll have so many bathrooms, it'll take me 10 minutes just to pick one. I sort of got this is what I said to her doesn't we come back. And I stopped out of the classroom and I went straight to the bathroom. And I cried until like, anymore. But I went home that day. And I became obsessed. I had a fire in me like she had thought she was going to put me on blast. But she lit a fire that burns in me to this day. Like I tell when I tell that story, I go back there, I feel it again. And I became obsessed with becoming that woman who had so many bathrooms, it would take her 10 minutes just to pick one. And so that's when I knew everything would change. And from there, it was just what can I do? What can I do? What opportunity can I create? How do I get out of this situation and just pretended to be my future self and took on any opportunity that came, you know, got a job at 13 that painted signs when I was 10 years old with my dad for a trailer park. Yeah, so true entrepreneur from the beginning. And what was kind of the turning point in your was it later teens? Was it 20s? What did your life trajectory look like at that point? What were some of the interests that were coming up for you? Yeah, I didn't have any. My interest was how do I get rich? That was it. That's all I wanted to be. As a matter of fact, my friends had a Halloween party a few years ago and they said dress up is what you wanted to be when you were little. And I dressed up as a black amix car because I wanted to be rich. But what happened was I was like maybe a few years out of high school working a little job in a call center, right? We call people and you collect money. That was super fun. But I'm always searching the newspaper the help wanted because that's how old I am. And I was always searching and they I saw this ad one day for a calendar model. And I was like, and people had always said, oh, you have a pretty face. And I was like, well, some people have a trust fund. I have a face you use what you got. And so I went to this audition. I booked it. I was like, Miss June, it's $100. I was loaded. I know. Yeah, exactly. And I thought, how do I do more of this? Yeah, this is great. And so that photographer said, well, you can work with me on this. And so I started doing these little shoots $50 $100 $200 on a great day. And then one day he said, I know this photographer in Los Angeles, if you ever find your way out there, let me know because he does some ads out there. And I was like, Oh, it just so happens, I'm going to be there in two weeks. Was not going to be there two weeks. Packed my little bag. I didn't have a suitcase. I bought one at TJ Maxx, right? I know. So I go out and that just led one thing led to another. And I started booking some shoots made $500 made $600. And so that's what took me to Los Angeles was my face. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And what so what started skincare? What started the like, obsession with wanting to help women feel good in their skin? Rage. Yeah. An adulterated rage. So on my 40th birthday, yeah, I woke up, it's my birthday, I'm happy it's my birthday. And I started getting these text messages, you know, there was flowers on the counter from people that was nice, but the text messages started coming in. Some of them were great, happy birthday, me, me, me. But then some of them, Lori, were like, happy birthday, it's all downhill from here. I was like, what? I got those. Yeah. Did you get them to on my 40th? So I remember I responded to one and said, Oh, that's cute. That's not happening to me. And you know what she said? We all thought that I was like, what? So here I am. I've pulled myself out of deliverance, right? I've now made really good money. I've helped a lot of people have sold over a million books. I think my skin's looking better than it did in my 30s. But now because I hit 40, I'm just supposed to fade and be okay with that. Yeah. And I was like, absolutely fucking not. This is crazy. And so then I started talking to women like you, people who were just getting started, you know, and they said, Listen, I don't want to look 25. I just want my outsides to look how I feel on the inside. Yes. Yes. And so when I looked at the beauty industry, because that's what we do, right? You have glossy, like you look around and you see, well, what are the solutions? And when I looked around, it was either eight anti aging products that were sold through shame, right? Using a 20 year old space, or you could just age gracefully and own every wrinkle. And I thought, isn't there another option? Like, why are these the only two options? Can I not want to look 25, but just want my outside to reflect my insides? Like, and so I thought, how can I fix this? And that's when I thought, well, I'll do what I've always done. I'll just rewrite the story. Because that's what I've been doing since a little kid, you know, I would walk into my bedroom with the old wood stove. And I would imagine that it was a princess bed with a big canopy. And like, I would, it was crazy. Like I thought I was delusional. And for a while, I did think I was crazy. But I would help. But I would picture a different reality, like we need watermelon at my mom's house growing up because she grew it in the garden. Lori, I would pretend it was lobster. I didn't know what lobster was. Rich people food, rich people food. But I was gonna, that was going to be me, right? And so I've always rewritten stories, rewritten my reality. So I thought, I'll do that here too. And so I thought, okay, what if we rewrite the signs of aging by getting to the root cause of it? Because they kept hearing skincare products don't work, they don't work. And I kept saying, why don't they work? Turns out we have these things called zombie cells, they're in our bodies too, but they're also on our skin. And they're not dead, but they're not alive. There's kind of a, and then they infect the healthy cells on your skin next to them. And so it creates this dull, dry buildup of cells. That's what causes fine lines and wrinkles, diminishes collagen, that's the root cause. And you can't just exfoliate to get them off. And so I thought, well, how do we get them off, right? And so our product that we ended up developing gets to the root cause of that by using the only cosmetically approved ingredient to get rid of zombie cells on your skin. So when you do that, all of your other skin care products work better. And then we put in everything that you need for aging skin to plump it up, make it glow, smooth, fine lines and wrinkles. And we call the line rewritten. Because we also have a ritual that we do with it every day, where not only are you rewriting the signs of aging on your face, but you're rewriting the story that you're told about aging. And so we have mantras, we have a podcast every morning that drops to walk you through your two minute ritual, where you take a story that society has told you, like you become invisible as you age, and you repeat a mantra as we lead you through your skin care routine that rewrites that story. I love that. You know, it really, just when I was hearing about some of the story, like you're going to be invisible now, I literally remember I had written, I think I wrote a post around the age of 40 that was like, is any other woman feel this way that like the best is behind you. Now all of a sudden it's like you're just not being seen anymore. And I remember just like, feeling that so deeply. And having to make a decision. Yeah, like I had to make a decision that I was going to be seen, and to like, figure out what that looked like for this next chapter of my life. And I can honestly say, like after making that decision and, you know, doing a lot of the things that you actually do with your skin care line and the mantras and the, you know, just just really deciding and getting empowering things around making those decisions, like, I feel like in such a different place, I'm like, no, this half is actually better. You can make it better. Yeah. Like, I know it's women in their like 20s and 30s. I know this is so weird to hear, but there is like a weird line that you cross where you actually love yourself more and you even can think that you're prettier now, even though maybe you can't ever imagine that there's something that you can rewire in your brain as well. It's 100% true. And listen, we will always look for evidence for what we believe. Right. So if we believe that you become invisible after 40, you're going to find ways to prove that to yourself, right? It's called an evidence log. That's what I call it. And so you'll notice every time that you're not noticed, you know, you'll notice the men looking at the younger woman instead of you, even though there might be 10 other men on the other side of the street, looking at you, you'll notice the ones who aren't. So I think, you know, it's been my experience that no matter what the story is that you're telling yourself, you can also rewrite it and find evidence that that story is true as well. And so that's really what we're trying to highlight with rewritten, even the way we name the products. Our first product is called show the face up. Because every time you see it on your counter, I want it to be a reminder. Like let's not rewrite, let's not tell ourselves the story that we're becoming invisible. Let's remember that it's time to show the face up. Right. So I think it's ultimately, it becomes a choice. And listen, there's no wrong choice either. Like I just want to put that out there for women who are like, I kind of want to grow old gracefully, like do that. That's totally okay. I do not. I do not. And I'm looking for a solution to help, you know, exactly. I'm not in that boat. I do all the other things. And I love it. I love it. And I enjoy it. So if you don't enjoy it, like I actually just had a call with a woman, because I'm raising money right now. And she's like, okay, well, I'm so not into this type of thing. I'm actually like so like I hate it. But I love like what you're doing. And I was like, you hate like I couldn't even understand her brain. She was so sweet and amazing. But like she's like, I haven't worn makeup for 15 years. I don't want to. Yeah. Like is she so what's interesting is that though, in that though, is she has found so much value in her like she loves herself. But she's found so much value in some other areas in her life. So it's actually a really fun conversation that was like, Oh, it's okay to like see these two dichotomies of like, no, she's like, do you really love doing this? I'm like, I love it. Yeah. Like I love like beauty stuff. I just, I mean, I was like, you know, four years old with baby dolls, like doing their hair, like, no, this is like so fascinating to me. Like the beauty industry of everything. So well, I just love beautiful things. You I mean, I mean, you're beautiful, right? Thank you. Of course, you live in. No, it's just, I think it's a reflection of standards that you have for yourself. Like I don't know how you feel, but I feel like how you do one thing is how you do everything. Right. And so if I can drink from a glass, I want it to be a really beautiful glass, as opposed to a solo cup. If we were taking from solo cups to be a very different experience, we did that already, girlfriend. We don't have to go back to those were the parties we went to. Oh, those were the days. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So this is a skincare line is like totally outside of what you've done before. Yeah, I know. Why are you I why am I like this? That's like one of the things that I wanted to ask you because I'm finding myself, you know, my, my world that that's same with me. It was like a totally different world. And this is such a departure for me, that I'm finding myself people like, Oh my God, this is gonna be so great. And you're so great at this and you're great at everything. I'm like, no, I'm not at all. I'm not either. I'm such a newbie. I'm in a lot of discomfort. I'm in a lot of pain. I'm actually in a lot of self doubt, a lot. I'm really back to the root of like, trying to remember all the things that I did in the beginning to become successful in the beginning. Like it's a full on flip your world upside down. I'm not sure why I did this at the age that I'm at right now. But I also know it's part of why I'm I'm gonna love who I am continuing on and on. So I would love to hear like, what was that decision point of getting into this? What were you in right before this? And what was the decision of getting into a physical product skincare line? Yeah. Well, first of all, can we just give credence to what you said? Because I think it's so important to honor the conversation that's not being had. Because I think that people look at you or maybe they look at me probably more look at you and say, wow, everything is just easy for her. Everything comes so easily. Like she gets up, she has this beautiful podcast, this amazing business, this great marriage and man, like she's just on easy street. And I don't think enough people talk about how difficult it is one to start over in your 40s in a brand new industry and wake up every day not knowing what the fuck you were thinking and also not knowing what you're doing. Like every single day feeling bad at everything. It's the worst. It's literally the worst, especially for someone and I feel like you're the same way, maybe not. But for me, I like being good at things. Yes. And I've spent a really long time being really good at what I do. Yeah. Right. Like so good. I could do it in my sleep. Same. So to answer your question, like I've run a health coaching school now for 16 years. I don't even teach in the school. It runs. It's great. It's amazing. Which is great because it's funded by the skincare line and I don't have to show up in it anymore, which is a beautiful thing. So it gives me more free time. But I'm really great at that, right? Certification. Like I got this. I'm so good. But something new like this. I mean, why did I go into the most competitive industry where there's 100 products launched every day trying to do the exact same thing? And I don't know anything about it, right? Like why did I do that? And I think it's because once that happened on my 40th birthday, I couldn't not do it. Like, I don't know if you feel that way about Glossy, but I just thought, this is crazy. And I have a daughter, right? So she's 15. And I thought I have got to rewrite this narrative by the time she's in my position. It breaks my heart to think that she would feel like at 40, her best years are behind her. And then just seeing the most powerful women I know buy into this narrative was just no longer an option. So I had to. I had to do it. So tell me about the process because there's people who are in something and they're like, oh my god, I have this. I just had someone voice, don't mean idea yesterday. And they're like, oh my god, should I do this? This feels insane. But like my whole body saying I should do it. Tell me a little bit about, you know, when you knew you wanted to do it. And then what your formulation process kind of looked like because I think the biggest question that I get from a lot of people is they're like, how did you know who to formulate with? How did you know about your packaging? How did you know? I'm like, I didn't know shit. Like I before this was before chat, like right before. So Google, I googled everything and I just like winged so much of this. It's scary. Yeah. So what did your process look like? It's the same. Like we didn't I didn't know anything. I had I had a physical product company before. Okay, so I knew a little bit about physical products. But the funny thing was when we sold that company, I swore that I would never do another physical product. And what was that one again? It was called SoCal Clean. Okay, it was the first and only for a long time certified organic detox program because I thought I saw these detox programs and that was part of my own personal journey. I had a crazy health story which got me into nutrition and the core way I did that was through a detox. But as I looked around on the market, like you satisfy your own needs, right? For sure. I thought why are we detoxing with products that aren't organic? Yeah, that are the toxins. Make it make sense. And so I created that line because I was like, this is crazy. We have to fix this. But swore I would never go back into it. I'm like, I'm selling education. I'm selling information because of everything. I mean, I know. I tell everyone. Packaging returns. Yeah, like formulation changes. You can't get an ingredient. All of a sudden, it's out of stock. At the time, hemp was illegal here in the US. And so we had to import it from Canada. So sometimes it would get stuck at customs. Oh, God, we were waiting on this huge batch of with just so much money tied up in money. You're relying on it's crazy because in products, you are relying on so many other people and so many things to go right. Cynthia, I can't even think about sometimes when like my products getting shipped. I'm like, bless the truck. Bless the driver. Bless the road. Bless that pothole. Who's the person packing the bags? Yeah, it's true though. You really do. I think it is an ultimate less than in getting up control that and having children. But that's a whole other thing that we want to go into. But yeah, it's hard. And I don't know about for you, but I the product that I started out with is not the same product I ended up with. Same. Really? Yeah. This was a light wine spritzer and non-alcoholic rosé. Stop it. Mine was a CBD product. So many reflects. There was so many. It was so much laws that I couldn't jump through the hoops. Yeah. And legal. I just drained my like drained the accounts and legal fees that I was like, we got it. Yeah, we got we're out. We got a pivot. CBD. Hi, that was damn. Yeah. No, so there were so many pivots. There were so many. I can't tell you like even down to manufacturing, we signed with the manufacturer. We came to the point where we had to we were right there from suing them just to get our money back because they kept putting off the manufacturing. Turns out and this is a big manufacturer. Turns out they were getting ready to file for bankruptcy. So they didn't want to give our money back. So so luckily we got it back. Yeah. And then we started over. And as you know, it's months to manufacture a product. And then the tariffs hit. Yeah. I mean, it's just been one thing after another. But I think to your point, like what do you what do you do? I think you really have to love it. I think you just have to be like, I can't not do this. It has to be something that you're willing every day to just get punched in the face for over and over and over. Or you're not going to do it. You'll give up. Yeah. And it is it's it's like kind of don't want to paint that picture. But that is the picture. But if you love it, you don't you're going to take the punches. It's like people who girls who the all of those memes that pass around and like, where their faces are like disfigured from fighting. And I'm like, do you you just stop? But you must just love it. Yeah. You must. I'm like, I feel that deeply. I feel that way right now. I look like that. I don't look that way. But I keep showing up. Okay. So formulation process, you kind of just found your people figured it out. How are your so for people starting, you know, maybe they don't have a ton of money, but they know they want to do it. Can you talk a little bit about like your did you go big with your minimum order quantities? Like what was the risk you were kind of willing to take in the beginning? Or did you play it a little safer? What does that look like for you? Yeah, I don't I'm not good at safe. And just not good at it. And I wish I were. Yeah, I really do. No, we went big. We were like, if we're going to do this, and they make it so enticing, don't they? To go bigger? Yeah. They'll be like, well, for 100 bottles, it's like $20 a bottle. But if you get 1000, it's like 50 cents. Yeah, not really. But you get it. You're like, okay, but then they're like, if you get 25,000, and you're just like, okay, well, and I knew that I was in it, like I knew I was in for the long haul and we'd invested so much that I almost needed to go big and needed those price breaks, just trusting in me and God in the universe and whatever that I would be able to sell it to make back the money that we had invested and lost. Yeah, until that point. Do you know what I mean? You get it, right? I think I'm on my third purchase, like third, this last purchase order was like, took my breath away. Like, I was like, well, we're really in it. So in there, it's real. It's real accountability, though. It is. But you know what that when you're backed into a corner, that's the way I am. If you back me into a corner, I will fight my way out. I think most entrepreneurs tend to be that way. So I knew if I put myself in a situation where I had just so much to lose, which is by the way, that's another thing that people don't talk about when you're starting a business, when you're in your later ages over 40, right, is at 28, it was very different. At 48, like, I have private school to pay for, you know, there's mortgage, there's aging parents, there's para menopause, and you fucking find your phone in the fridge for no apparent reason. Like, there's so much more to lose. In my 20s, I was just fucking broke. There wasn't much to lose. And so it's not only scary because of the money you put in or the number of times you get punched in the face. It's scary because if you lose it all and have to start over, like, yeah, like where am I going? Am I going to my friend's house to sleep on the couch and like, hi, the reputation I worked so hard to build, am I going to be able to start something again after this? Or is everyone going to not trust anything I do? Right? It's the stakes are super high. And I think, I think people look at it and they don't realize that at all. And I don't want people not to start because I'm just thinking of that right now. Like, I don't turn to everyone off because literally here. So here's where I'm at though now in my in where I'm at. Let's now I've been in the I've been to that place. Yeah, people need to know that exists because I was in that alone for a little bit. And I was like, is anybody else feeling this crazy? Like I've, the stress was like, am I going to get an ulcer? And I'm not even kidding. Like at the cost of, is this going to be at the cost of my health? And so now I'm getting to a place where I'm like, okay, if this doesn't work, which I never do this, like I don't give myself a plan B, but I do what I do have to do is go, can you live with worst case scenario? Yes. And so I have to go visit that. And I'm like, well, you know, if I'm being really honest, like my life was feeling uncomfortable because it was too easy. Like you even said it yourself, like you become really good at, I was so good at things that actually I'm not challenged at all. Yeah. And I did an exercise of a couple years ago and it was like, I wrote down like what actually makes me happy and challenge was like one or two. Yeah. And  and when I'm not challenged, I don't feel like very fulfilled or happy because challenge is learning, challenges growth, challenges forward movement, it's progress. And even though everyone listening to this thinks that you are trying to get an easier life, I woke up in an easy life for quite a few years, and it was the most depressed and anxious I've ever been. Because I just didn't have that pull in that thing that pulled me out of bed every day. It feeds you. You know, when I had a therapist years ago, and I was talking about entrepreneurship and just like what I was going through then, and she said, well, you know, because of your traumatic childhood, which we all have to some extent, let's be honest, she said, you're actually really well equipped to handle a lot more stress than the average person. Have you heard this or read any about this? I haven't read it, but I put it together. Hi. I was like, I think because I went door to door and preached about the Bible and got rejected with shotguns, that I'm actually like, oh, that's cute. You're like, I'm good. Yeah. You said no without a shotgun? Cool. This is so much better than I'm used to. Yeah. So I think I'm just like predisposed to that. You for sure. I do think it's a gift when I went through. I think it's a really great thing. But I also think it is important to talk about the flip side, right? So yes, it's harder. Yes, there's more at stake. Yes, there's so much more to lose. Worst case, you'd be fine. Let's admit it, you would. But the other thing is the good things about it. I am so clear on who I am now and exactly what I'm creating. There's no wishy-washy. I make decisions easily. I know where to put the money. This is not my first time at the business rodeo. So if worst case scenario happens, I know exactly how I would come out of it. I protect my time more fiercely. I negotiate way better, right? Funny story. So I divorced and remarried. But when we were running a business before, my ex-husband, the SoCal Clans with my ex-husband. Oh, yeah. OK. And he used to get on to me all the time because he's like, you have the worst negotiating skills. Like you've got to negotiate. You've got to like tell them you're not going to pay that they need to deliver on this time. And then, Lori, when we got divorced and we were going through that whole thing, he said to me one day, he goes, you're so much better at negotiation now. He's like, dang it. Yeah. He's like, damn, I wish I had to coach you. So he trained his opponent. Yeah. So I'm master negotiator now, right? Yeah. And it's just, I know, I know what matters. I know what my standards are. And so there are a lot of ways it's easier now. Mm hmm. Sense. Oh, yeah. For anyone that doesn't know me, I have started a lot of businesses. And I will tell you that every single one came with so many worries and so many fears, it can be really terrifying because there are so many questions that you don't have the answer to. What if no one listens to my podcast? What if nobody buys my products? And I am so grateful that I have started all of them, especially Glossy, and that I believed in the launch of my products because despite all the fears and hesitations, it also helps when you have a partner like Shopify on your side. And Shopify is what I use for Glossy. So you can get started with your own design studio with hundreds of ready to use templates. Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store that matches your brand style. Accelerate your efficiency, whether you're uploading new products or trying to improve existing ones. Shopify is packed with helpful AI tools that write product descriptions, page headlines, and even enhance your product photography. And what if I get stuck? Shopify is always around to share advice with their award winning 24 seven customer service. It's time to turn those what ifs into with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1 per month trial today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. If you're just starting your business or you're looking for a really good foundation in your business, start with Northwest Registered Agent and get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business all in one place. Build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow a business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1,500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you in your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast with Northwest Registered Agent and get access to thousands of free resources, forms and step by step guides without even creating an account. Sign up for a free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more all at no cost. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. Are you ready to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Ora, Brevo's AI assistant. Ora helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY 50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Ora. What would you say to the person who is, I mean, in their, I guess it doesn't matter, the woman who thinks she wants to start. Did you have any questions that you asked yourself or things that you tuned into to be like, because there's the kind of the all in moment where you have to be really self-evaluating and asking a lot of questions. Mine took like a year to fully decide. What were some of the things that you went through to get yourself to the 51 plus percent? Yeah. So mine was not, I immediately thought it was crazy. I immediately said, I have to do something about this. Immediately I thought skincare, okay, to find this business immediately. I thought that. And then immediately I was like, that's the demyst idea you've ever, there's just no, it's a hard pass. Because like you said, I was comfortable. I was, I did not need to do this, right? That you knew was coming. Yeah. And I knew because I had been in the physical products. Remember, and I said, I'll never do this again. I said that, Laurie, I said it. And so I really resisted. I did. And the universe has a really funny way when you're meant to do something of saying you're doing it, whether you like it or not, you're doing it. And so little things would was happening. I was really anxious. Didn't know why I was really unhappy and unfulfilled. And I would see the businesses doing well, and that was great. But something was missing. And I would see ads about skincare and I would constantly see what was wrong with them. And so it was a gradual process of looking at and evaluating. Um, and that went fairly quickly, but it took eight years to launch the product. Part of that was changing what the product was. Part of that was manufacturers that didn't work out, formulators, chemists, everything that didn't that we tried that didn't work. Part of it was that. But the other part was me dragging my feet, waiting, wanting to be reassured, you know, just having to step into a brand new identity that was physically uncomfortable for me. Like right before we launched, I remember you talked about like physical things before and the stress and the anxiety. I was having heart palpitations. Now I came from the health and nutrition and fitness industry, you know, similar to you. And I thought I'm going to have a heart attack. This is destroying my health. And I went and had a scan of my heart and I was like, this is going to be it. They're going to say you can't do it. And my doctor was like, nope, 100% clear, zero blockage. And I was like, what? So it's just a mental thing. And so it really was just working every day on rewriting the stories, embracing the new identity one foot in front of the other and then doing everything before I was ready. Let's talk about the actual, if you can share some of the, you know, you had to rewrite an identity. What was that identity for you? Like what was the fear that took the eight years? And then even around, if you can go back to thinking about like going into the doctor, why do you think that you were under that stress? Like what were the actual thoughts that were going through and how did you work through that? Well, I was known as a lot of things. A founder of this really successful health coaching school, a best selling author, a celebrity nutritionist. I was the official nutritionist for revenge body with Chloe Kardashian for all three seasons and had worked with a ton of big names had done every TV show, been in Forbes, been in Vogue, done all of the things, lot of identities. But this identity of being a skincare founder wasn't one of them. Right. And a lot of it was my ego. Cause I thought, well, what if I'm not good at this and what if I fail? And then what will they say? You know, kind of like what you talked about earlier. And I'm a person who I don't give a fuck what people think about me. Right. And I've been that way for a while. I wasn't always that way. Like it was used to be really insecure. Used to be a people pleaser. So this really messed with my head. Right. But I didn't care what people thought because I was so sure of who I was. But now that I'm switching my identity, all of a sudden that came back. And if I fail, I mean, really, like I'm known for coming from extreme poverty, taking a bath in a creek because we didn't have running water to making over a hundred million dollars. And what if I lose it all? You know, like what? What? And that was really hard to stomach. That was very scary. I was all caught up in this old identity of being good. Oh, I mean, it's an ego death. I am. Oh my God. I mean, I'm literally fully this company has made me go through multiple for sure. I'm fully in one right now. Same. Fully. Same. I'm waking up in the middle of the night just like, but it's all it's all ego. But aren't isn't a little OK, same. Yeah. Still having the heart palpitations still having them every day. I think it's all going to end. Yeah, going to be broke and living in, you know, an apartment and whatever. But aren't you also a little bit excited? Very. Right. It's just when you're in the eye of the storm sometimes and I know the eye of the storm can sometimes they can last long. Sometimes they can be really short. Sometimes they can come and go. The thing that I think I want people to know is if you're going to do something big, you're going to be here. I've been here before. You have been here before. Many times. Like I woke up last night and I'm like, oh, here it is. OK, been here before. Yeah. OK, how do we, you know, what are we thinking in our head right now? Are we thinking worst case scenario? OK, how about one of the things that's really been helping me is I'm like, OK, how about if everything works out? OK, how about how would I be feeling in my body right now? If I really believed God had the plan already. Yeah. And I like noticed I just like totally let go and I was like, oh, interesting. And of course, then you tense up again five minutes later. And then you say it again and you go through that process. And like these are such I already sitting across from you already feel like I know so much about you just from everything that you've said. And also I recognize so much of myself in you. Yeah. And we don't get to know the full potential of the undeniable women that we are both here to be and that we are striving to be and that by the end of our life, we want to look back and say we did it. We don't get to meet her or become her without these moments. Amen. And it's it's like that's what I have to keep remembering is an easy life. I just then I just put what I did and, you know, I'm happy with the challenges in the past and now everything else is just kind of reflecting back at what I did. Yeah. And I don't want that. Yeah. I want to always be wrapped up in what I'm doing. I talk about this with my husband a lot. I don't I don't want to be the football player who peaked in high school. And now that's all they talk about with their friends about how they went to the state championship. Do you know what I mean? For sure. Yeah. My husband and I talk about this a lot. And the reason I bring up excitement earlier is in those moments that night. Why is it always like three o'clock in the morning? Three thirty. I'll wake up and it's like, well, did this thing get sent out or something like shit? Oh, so then I do some shots of no, I don't. I thought about it, but I haven't got to that point yet. But I think for me, it is constantly rewriting the story and it's flipping the script to where I look at all the things I'm really excited about. You're like, yes, these things may be true, but what if, like you said, what if the best thing happens? And I see the excitement for the woman getting the product for remembering who the fuck she is and being like, yes, 40, 50, 60. What a number, you know? And I think about the confidence and the power and what she'll do in the world because of that and the lives that she'll touch because of that. And then I get, you know, I get selfish and I think I can't wait to be in Forbes for this product. I can't wait to, you know, have the money and take care of my daughter and just have this life set up for her because the intention is very much to sell the company we're building it to sell. And so I think about the exciting parts. And I'm just learning to rewrite the stories and to just play. Like when I was younger and more inexperienced, I thought all these negative thoughts were just horrible and I would try to stop them. And I realized that we all have this storyteller in us. Like I named mine Rosemary. Rosemary's baby, you know, literally the devil. So she's Rosemary and Rosemary, she'll say the craziest shit to me at three in the morning. I'm telling you, but I just talked to her and I say, Rosemary, listen, I know you've been through some shit. We've been through some shit together, but things are actually okay now. I'm feeling pretty good about this. So I want to just let you go. And I know you're here to come and look out for me and keep me from doing the crazy shit, but I got this now. So thank you. And you have to stop. Yeah. Get some sleep. You've got to stop. Right. And so it's just more of this playing and connecting with that other part of me that scared little girl. He's afraid of losing it all and going back to the dumpster days, you know, and I'm finding that to be comforting. Yeah. I think, you know, you're just bringing some things up for me that people, even around who've had some trauma and like you said, everybody has had it. And we're also all humans. So we're deeply obviously wired for survival. And so when you're coming out of a situation where your family was survival, but they weren't survival, where you're actually fleeing from what should be your survival. And I feel like you and I probably got really good with people. And what happens is then you think that people liking you as your survival. Yes. And so when your reputation is at stake, now I'm unwinding, I'm untangling the necklace as one of my really close friends says of like my belief that if people don't like me, it's like my survival is threatened deeply. Yeah. And so I think that's what I'm on. That's the identity I'm untangling right now is that I've worked so hard to build up a reputation where I'll be safe because if my reputation is high, then my safety is high. Yeah. And so I'm all in on something that could take my reputation down for a hot second. I don't fully believe that. Yeah. Some people will be disappointed, you know, if that's something that would happen, but so many people don't even notice. Yeah. Do you know how many friends I've had whose companies have tanked or they've lost millions of dollars and it's, it's like everyone forgets it. Yeah. Especially men. I'm like, I read so many biographies where I'm reading Burn the Boats right now, but I think it's Mark Higgins. Yeah. And he's like, yeah. So I lost $260 million. And then I started this other company and now he's like a billionaire. And I'm like, but tell me more about when you were losing the money. You gave me more money. That's what I want to know. You yourself, who gave you more? How did you come back? Like, yeah, important things or women are never going to go for it. Yeah. So I actually love this conversation because I think they need, I think more of us need to know, I think women are not going for it and we're not getting the confidence now because we think we have to win on this one. Yeah. I agree. And men do not feel that way. They're like, it might not be this one. It might be my third one, but somehow someone's going to give me even more money. And I'm like, how can I get a like a brain transplant from whatever you have going on up there? Yeah. And I do think it is like detaching a little bit. I think we're so attached, like detaching a bit from like what we're doing and knowing it's important and that it's a dream and we can go for it, but kind of detaching from this like belief that we're not going to be good, worthy or okay if somebody fails. It's so good. I think it also is getting clear on what you're attached to. Right. So yours is people liking you. Yeah. I'm just thinking about this now because I don't, I've never said this before. Um, mine is status slash respect. Cause it's the one thing I didn't. Yeah. I didn't hide that. You know, I was made fun of and bullied and because of the way I looked and dressed and smelled all the things. Yeah. That's really important to me. So if I fail and people don't respect me, shatters my identity and the money, you know, cause that was the other thing. I think I know my biggest fear more than even losing respect is losing money. It's losing everything. Again, not that I really believe this like you said earlier, but it's that. That's, I think it just drives me in some might say a very unhealthy way. But I just want to ever go back there. I think there's just something in the mindset of people who come from poverty, who will do whatever it takes. Never go back. Yeah. And there's not a, I'm actually good. Now I have enough. It's never enough. Yeah. Which is crazy and doesn't feel good to say out loud, but it's true. Yeah. I think that's just people aren't saying it because it's a big driver to never go back for sure. Yes. I might, my parents went through bankruptcy when I was a kid and I was like, yes, I feel that deeply. Okay. I want to hear about the undeniable audiobook. Yeah. People are loving it. Yeah. And then also within that you talk about the living brand. Yeah. And we were just saying like it's January 2026. It is a very different time. I watched every, we were, we work with a lot of entrepreneurs. We have multiple businesses. Everything changed last year. Everything. It's changed. It's very different right now. So let's talk about living brand first year audiobook though. Yeah. Yeah. The audiobook is called undeniable and I made it free because I just think people need it and it's, it's a different take on what most people are doing. So I saw that too. Also had a lot of friends who said I had my worst year ever. The world changed. Yeah. Of course business changed. Like of course it did. And a lot of people are struggling. You know, now there's chat GPT. Nobody wants to buy a course anymore when they can get it for free on YouTube. Or chat GPT or whatever. And so I think it's a very different world that we live in. And I hear people talking about building a personal brand. And I think, yes, that can be true. But what I've always done is built a living brand. And it's a very different concept. And I realized as I'm talking to friends just like you who were going through this that people don't do it this way. And so I thought, OK, let me put this all together and show people how to win. Because again, I've made over a hundred million dollars and I still have less than 40,000 followers on Instagram. Right. So it's not about being undeniable and viral and world famous. It's about being undeniable to the right people. And how do you find that? And how do you stand out? And so when we talk about a personal brand, we're talking about you. Right. We're talking about Lori and how she's smart. And she's funny. And she has this knowledge and she brings these things to the table and she sells things based on her. She monetizes herself and uses her audience to do that. And that's great. But you hit a limit with that. And now you're trading dollars for hours and hours for dollars and all of the things. And so a living brand is different. A living brand is where you actually become proof of your transformation. Like a personal brand, it is who we are, but we also create it. Right. The colors, we pick the logo, we pick that I help X do Y. So that Z statements. But a living brand is where you are literally living proof of your transformation. Right. And that's what people buy because they see you living it and they know you can give it to them. So the way this came about for me is I started over 20 years ago in the nutrition business. I'd gone through a crazy health struggle, found my own way through it, thought I want to help other people with this. But when it came time to brand myself as a nutritionist or nutrition coach, I lived in Los Angeles and there was a nutritionist on every corner. And I tried to price myself competitively. I got the credentials after my name. I try to write the fancy bio and third person. People would take me seriously. Right. And it didn't work. And I was struggling and I was broke and I was like, shit, what do I do? How do you stand out? And I think a lot of people today are going through that. And so I had a trainer friend and he called me one day and he said, hey, I'm with a client of mine, just this really wealthy client. And I she's looking for a nutritionist. She's talked to a lot of people, hasn't found anyone that she liked. I told her about you and your story. I showed her your website so she could see you and what you look like, whatever. And she wants to meet. Can you come and meet with her? I was like, yes. Like literally anytime, any place. Yeah. And so I go there and it's one of those really nice buildings on Wilshire. And I walk in and the concierge was there and he takes me up on the elevator. It opens on her floor. Right. And I get out and I rehash my story to her, just tell her. And she said, that's exactly what I've been through. You've done it. I want you to help me. And I was like, great. And she said, amazing, you're hired. Where's your office? I didn't have one. I didn't have an office. Yeah. I was like, I was meeting people at the park or at a Starbucks. Lori, I was the worst. And so I said, oh, I actually don't work that way. I think you come up with something. Brilliant. Yeah. So I don't work that way. I said, I actually do this. I come to you and that way I can see your kitchen and your supplements and how you're living and it's highly personalized. And she said, I love that. Is that an extra cost? And I said, no, it's included in your rate. Fucking I know. I'm literally making this shit up as I go. And she said, great, well, what's your rate? Oh, I know. Like just give me five minutes. But I look around and I'm like, if I tell her, she's going to think I'm a joke. Because I've been trying to compete at the lowest rate. We compete on price. That's a quick race to the bottom. And so I forexed it and told her and she said, amazing, can you come tomorrow? I was like, I can. So later I'll make this short. And later my friend called and he said that was great. Like I have other clients that would hire you. And then he said, like, what do you call this? Like, what is the how do I describe it? Because you do it differently. And I remembered walking into the building wanting to be on that. And I said, concierge nutrition just made that shit up. The point is I was a living brand. I became proof of my transformation and I told her my story and that's why she wanted it. But then I created a category of one. I made up this term called concierge nutrition. Yeah. And I was the only one doing it. And I positioned it for people that I wanted to work with. People who could pay me, who could pay me really well, who wanted the thing that most people didn't have access to, right? And who wanted that special high touch service of me coming to them in a city like Los Angeles and it crushed it. And so that's the difference between a personal brand and a living brand. It's creating this category of one where no one competes with you. Now, the way this plays out is that method of nutrition that I created. I coined that transformation on nutrition and then later created the Institute of Transformation and Nutrition and that's my health coaching school. So that's what's funded everything. I don't work in that school very much on a day to day basis and haven't in years. So a personal brand, you're monetizing you, a living brand. You're just the living proof that you can get the results. And then you have this method, this IP or this product that can then be sold independently of you. I love that. It's scalable. Does that make sense? So some of the things that I've been most successful in is because I'm like, well, that's what I did. I was the living proof of this network marketing company that I used. And then I got other people. I got the clients who then became more proof. And it just took off of a life of its own. Truly is what ended up happening because it was so in me. It was like something so like how your skincare is now. It's just who you are. It's in you. It's what you're creating. Totally. How important do you think? Because I'm really seeing this all over now with the brands that are doing well. Is they do name their things like they kind of name all of the different methods that they do or they name these in ways that are very clear and concise. And it says what they are and it's not cute, meaning like concierge nutrition is cute, but it's also so clear what it is. Yeah, it's like going to be personalized. It's going to be top level and it's going to feel like it's coming to you. Whatever you need. It's always important to be clear over clever. Clear over cute. Like I see a lot of things I see like champagne clients. I'm like, do they buy champagne? Do you meet up and drink champagne? Do they pay you to drink? I don't know what that means, right? It's really hard to distill that. So I think naming is super important. I think it's really important to be clear. I also think that this idea of trying to be better is a quick race to the bottom. You cannot keep trying to compete to be better. You have to be different. And that's one thing that I see is that I see people creating personal brands and you can't create a personal brand. You discover a personal brand, right? It's just in you. It's who you are. But when people create these personal brands instead of being a living brand, they just end up looking like everybody else. Everyone's using chat GPT. Everyone sounds the same. Everyone picks up on the latest term of the moment and they all start to use it. It's all the same language. They dress the same. They look the same and that sameness just makes you invisible, right? Which is undeniable. It's like you go from invisible to impossible to ignore. So, yeah, it's just a much bigger opportunity that people aren't latching onto. So how do we tell me just a little bit about the process? So you're like, you know, if you're creating a personal brand that looks very much like you're picking your colors, you're choosing what you're going to talk about. Oh, you keep on. We keep saving these reels because.  and all of the things, how do we create from within, rather than consuming? Well, that's exactly it. You create from within, right? So I'll give you a couple more examples, because I just think they illustrate it so well. So I was speaking at a closed group, women entrepreneurs, I guess about a year and a half, two years ago. And I spoke about how to create a certification, because people at courses aren't working. I want to create a certification. I'm really good at it. I've done it now for many years. I've made millions of dollars doing it. It's a turnkey process for me. So I spoke about it. I gave them the steps, and I said, if you want, I can help you do it. And somebody said, how much? And I threw out a number that made sense to me. I closed $250,000 in an hour with no sales page, and the program wasn't even named. Not because, like, I'm not a sales person, but I'm not a sales person. I'm not a sales person, but because, like, I'm just amazing or they were desperate. But because I was living proof, I am certifications. It's what I'm known for. It's what I'm done. So people want proximity to someone who's done the thing. Like, you're the expert on it, right? So I'm coming to you. An example is, you know, Kylie Jenner decided one day that she wanted lips. So she didn't get lip filler. She got lip filler. Right, exactly. She did the thing. And people are like, that's amazing. What colors? How do you line them? This is great. So she launched a lip kit and it sold out because of course it did because this is what she was known for. Kim Kardashian and love them or hate them. Yeah. You can't deny them. For sure. Which is the core underlying of being undeniable. Like, love or hate, you can't deny. And so Kim was always, it was her figure that put her front and center, right? Her shape. She would get photographed with her spanks showing and she didn't make any secrets about that. So when she launched skims, people were like, of course. Yeah, of course she was. Yeah, of course. So just to pose that against something like same family, Kendall, right? Kendall Jenner launches a tequila company. She wasn't known for tequila. Like we didn't see her throwing back shots. I mean, look at her. She looks amazing. Like she would never drink, right? The sales haven't been near what the lip kits or skims, right? It's a very different thing. And so that's a key difference and a key illustration of being a living brand. Like Jennifer Lopez creating a drink company, like a spirits company, just tanked because she had always spoken out against drinking. So it's like, wait, doesn't, do you see what I mean? For sure. You have to be living proof of the thing that you're great at. And some people don't even know what that is. And so they go out and try to create a business instead of just becoming the thing that they do effortlessly. Oh my gosh. Are there in the book, is there exercises that you do or is there ways to figure out what that is? Because some people really, they have great things about them. Even me sometimes I'm like, wait, what am I great at? Oh gosh, because you do it. Yeah. You don't realize people would want that from you. Because it's just a part of you. Or even if you do think they want it, you're like, man, man seems too easy, right? Like I've been, I've treated my skin like it's an Olympic sport. For years, right? And it looks that way. Thank you. Like it's flawless. I'm like, it's a lot of time and money. It's my skincare. Actually a lot of it is. But I would be around friends and they would just want that. And I would be teaching business or, you know, the important stuff. They're just staring at your skin. And they'd be like, what do you, like what primer do you, whatever. And they're like, I know you're talking about something else, but I can't stop staring at your face. I was like, well, it's this ingredient. It's this ingredient. And then you do this thing. But that was so easy for me, right? And so then the birthday kicked everything off and I was like, okay, clearly I'm going to do this. So then I did it thinking, okay, but will they actually buy it? And then we sold out our first run in under 48 hours. So it's like, so affirming in the best way. I was so nervous. Like I was so scared. We opened cart and I was like, sweet Jesus, don't fail me now. Like people, people, you don't know, even though she has this house, you don't know if you're going to get four sales, 400, forth that you don't, there's no way to tell you can do, you can do the list building, you can do a wait list. And you still don't know. But that's the other part, right? And why I didn't take it seriously, because people would say your skin looks great. If you bought it, if you had a product, I'd buy it. So then when I created the product, I was like, would you really exactly actually though? Cause it comes easy to me, but would you actually pay for it? And they said, yeah, yeah, yeah. And so you don't know until the cart opens. And then when they do, you're like, oh, and then you're like, I've been making things so hard. Oh, yeah. I could have done this from the beginning. Yeah. You know? So yeah. Okay. So tell us more about where we can get the product. But even like, I just want to dive deeper because I want you to remind, like I, I'm using it right now. I love it, but I love learning more so I can make sure I keep using it. Okay. So I'm killing my, I'm killing my zombies. And what else is that doing? Can I use it as a moisturizer? I know I asked you that because I don't like, I'm not really a serum girl. I told you that like I'll try them and I'm like, I don't really love it. This one's sticky. This one doesn't feel very hydrating. It just feels like water. But I really love yours cause it almost can, it almost feels like it's a really light moisturizer to me. Hopefully that's okay to say, but that's what it's doing. Yeah. So remind me why I need to be using this every day. Yeah. So, and that's a lot of what you're saying is exactly what we designed it for. And we also designed it for busy women cause I don't know about you, but I had like, again, Olympic skin over here. Right. So like 12 step skincare routine. And so we wanted to make it really simple. So the first thing that we wanted to do was get rid of the zombie cells. Okay. Great. We did that. Then we wanted to add in ingredients that moisturize because as you age, your skin starts to get drier. Everything starts to get drier. And so we wanted to put in some different molecular levels of hyaluronic acid. Okay. Pull in the moisture and lock it in. We also know that your barrier starts to be destroyed as you get older, collagen starts to break down. So we put in barrier support for that to lock in all the moisture to protect that glow. Right. And then some really functional things like as you age and really at any age, but especially as you age, your skin gets drier and starts to kind of sloth off and that can cause adult acne. So you put a salicylic acid in. So essentially it is a four in one product replacement. Yeah. And we formulated it so they all work together, which is really key because if you get different products from different lines or even the same line, they're not manufactured to work together. So they're not balanced. So a lot of times you can actually do more harm than good with different ingredients that you're pairing because you don't know how they interact with each other and on your skin. Okay. Right. So that's why we formulated it to really be an all in one. We have a makeup artist who are using it as a primer for makeup, moisturizing, like you said, is a big thing for our customers. Yeah. So that's the glow that comes from within, which is this unique blend of oils that we put in to really soothe the skin is another reason. So. Well, I'm so excited because I am. I'm an easy skincare girl. Like it's got to be easy. Yeah, same. Oh my gosh. I get all the same. So many other complicated things in my life and you know, I'm like really into body and fitness that I'm like this has to be easy. Yeah. And it's also very clean, which we don't talk about because I feel like that's just table stakes now, but it's very, very clean. You can put it through the, you know, ingredients database for clean cosmetics and we come out on top. So you don't have to worry about toxins or we made it very safe for hormones. So if people are on hormone replacement therapies or again at any age, it doesn't interfere with that. So we made sure to really test all of the angles and think about the bigger picture when it comes to your whole person. I love it. It feels really good. The bottle is beautiful. It even looks beautiful. Like the product, the actual product is beautiful. It's just a really, I will say it's I get so much skincare stuff because when I go to events and just my closet and we have a lot of. We work with a lot of people. So they give us a lot of stuff. Yeah. I will say like I have been using yours and I really love it. And it looks beautiful under my makeup. So I'm grateful. So you guys put this all in the show notes so that you can I've linked the product below so you can find it super easily and that you can go follow. But thank you so much for coming on the show. Thanks for having me. Yeah, such a great conversation. I feel like we have so much background and comments. So I appreciate you. Yeah, thanks for having me. I appreciate you. Absolutely.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.474401Z ===
