from 20 years old to 60 years old, your metabolism does not slow down. So when you turn like 40, 45, 50, and you're like, "Oh, my metabolism is not the same. That's why I've gained 10, 15 pounds, you know, whatever." It's actually not the case. What is downregulating metabolism is actually blood sugar. >> Whoa. This is the first time I've ever heard this. So like technically without that challenge, there's no reason why in my 40s and 50s I should >> You can't be the best shape of your life. >> Whoa. you get like 200 people together every Wednesday in your community. >> Yeah, that is one of the biggest challenges to rally people >> and I don't care what kind of business you have, you have to be good at building community. >> Community I think is 100% key, especially brick and mortar. What we've done is >> most people actually don't even know what it's like to feel good. >> That's the issue. >> Ouch. >> You know, a highpaced lifestyle, you're burning the candle at both ends. I can't tell you how many guys that I work with that have like just chronic pain issues and stuff and they just like they assume that that's just part of everyday life. Yeah. >> You know, until you give them some things that start to shift that. >> Lindsay, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast and the Chris Harter Show. and the Chrisarter show both of them. >> We get to interview together which is so fun because you are here at our VIP weekend mastermind >> and it's been fun getting to spend time with you and um we just got patched up which we'll which we'll tell everybody about in a minute. >> I'm very excited all of our >> instead of a matchmaker she's like a patch maker. >> I just patch people up all day. So good. So good. All right so tell us about your background. And how did you become an expert in metabolism and why is that so important to you? >> Oh my gosh. Yes. So, I got into functional medicine because I had my own experience with just being debilitated with gut issues in my early 20s. I had chronic IBS, IBSC, and I would go to doctors in so much pain. It also triggered a lot of hormone problems, anxiety, you know, that gut connection to literally everything, right? And all the doctors I would go to would run labs and they'd tell me, "You look, you seem healthy. everything looks normal. You're within range, right? And I would walk away going, "How are my labs normal when I feel so bad?" Right? The doctors never knew what to do. They would send me to CVS or Walgreens to get a, you know, any over-the-counter mir. And I just I'm such a why person. I'm like, "But why is this happening? What is causing it? I want to know the root." And so, I just went on my own quest 15 years ago to figure out how to heal my own body. And just with that experience, I got credentialed as a holistic nutritionist and then studied women's hormones and just started kind of getting my feet wet with like what not only heals the body but what causes inflammation. And so when I started coaching other women to heal their own bodies and to support removing inflammation, metabolism seemed to be so interconnected. All the women started coming to me like I I feel like I'm working out. I'm doing all the exercises. I'm eating healthy, but I can't seem to lose weight. my body feels stuck, all this stuff. And we would look at their diet, we would look at their routine, and everything did look perfect. And so, just with seeing how the way of the world, inflammation, toxins, and like just healing your body at the core has everything to do with why you might be met metabolically stuck and why it's not just important for fat burn, but really longevity. because metabolic health is the root of preventing diabetes, Alzheimer's, dementia, all these cardiovascular diseases, metabolic dysfunctions, and so it's just so interconnected and I'm just so passionate about helping women step into truly their highest potential when they can heal their body and optimize from there. >> Are men suffering from this as much as women? >> Oh yeah. I mean, I feel like women come to me more, but for sure. I mean, it's like again, it's a tall tell story of I'm exercising. I'm eating all the healthy things, but why why can't I lose weight? You know, why is my body not burning fat? I'm just doing do I work out more? When I work out more, I'm still stuck. >> So, totally. >> So many women in their 30s and 40s feel like their metabolism has stopped. You just said that. >> Yes. >> So, or that it's just like not working overnight or maybe there was a big shift in their life. >> So, what what do you think is really going on? And I know that you just chatted about all the all of this, but let's talk about what you are seeing and and what you've realized through all of your work. >> No, this is so important. So, there was a study done out in Duke that showed from 20 years old to 60 years old, your metabolism does not slow down. So, when you turn like 40, 45, 50, and you're like, "Oh, my metabolism is not the same. That's why I've gained 10, 15 pounds, you know, whatever." It's actually not the case. What is downregulating metabolism is actually blood sugar. >> Whoa. This is the first time I've ever heard this. So like technically without that challenge, I'll let you keep going in this. Without that challenge, there's no reason why in my 40s and 50s it just >> you can't be the best shape of your life. >> Whoa. Yeah. Okay. This is like kind of empowering. >> It's so empowering because I think we think with age we slow down, right? But um no, what happens is we become metabolically inflexible. Meaning our body stops knowing how to go from glucose burning, that's sugar burning, to fat burning, right? It's literally like a switch in the body. And what causes that switch to stop working is accumulation of certain things. So one, it's going to be chronic snacking. So anytime you eat, anytime you don't sleep good, anytime you're stressed, it spikes blood sugar. A lot of people think, "Oh, my blood sugar is fine. I'm not diabetic." Or, "Oh, I don't eat a lot of sugar, so my blood sugar is probably fine." So that's probably not the problem, but really it's not just sugar, but even eating protein spikes your blood sugar, not sleeping good, stress, right? And so if you are like a snacker, let's say you're on this like macro diet and you're eating breakfast, lunch, dinner with two snacks of protein, you're going to have chronically elevated blood sugar all day, which means your body will never have an opportunity to switch from glucose burning to fat burning. The only way to burn fat is literally to deplete glycogen and glucose stores in the body, which really is done through fasting. Like stop eating. There's other like biohacking modalities you could do like um cold plunging depletes blood sugar really fast. Sauna will too. There's like different herbs and supplements that you can also look into, but really like when you are chronically eating all day, snacking, grazing, even if it's super healthy. That was me like 15 years ago. I was a snacker, a little rabbit snacker. I would have all the fruits and veggies. I would run marathons, but I was like 20, 30 pounds heavier than I am now. Super inflamed. And it was because my glucose was just always chronically elevated. I never allowed for fat adaptation through fasting. Um, so that's one component. Two is going to be toxic load. So we all have this like glass, think of your body as like a glass jar, right? And as you go through life, let's say you're 20, you don't have you only have 20 years of exposure to like toxins. So your glass your glass is like not quite full. Then let's say you hit 30, 40, and then you're like, whoa, things suddenly shift out of nowhere, but I'm doing everything the same. What happened was you had more time in life to be exposed to toxins, environmental pollutants. It could be like EMF, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, air pollution, parasites, mold, candida, like your your cup gets too full and then it spills over. And that's where metabolic inflexibility will come into. And if you think of like the world we live in today, how much more toxic it is compared to 20 years ago, right? like cancer is on the rise. Everything's got toxins in your personal care products, your hair care, the food you're eating, ultrarocessed, all of that. And so we just live now in a world that is significantly more toxic than it's ever been. And that's also contributing to metabolic inflexibility and like we can't switch from flat fat burn to or sugar burn to fat burn. Also, liver congestion. This one's really huge and it's super linked to fat burn. So your liver one of its jobs is to release toxic toxins from the atapost tissue your fat tissue. So if you have like high liver enzymes or if you have congestion in the liver then your body will not break down the toxins from your fat and they'll get trapped in your fat which keeps your fat stuck. >> Interesting. >> Yeah. So supporting your liver is one of the most important things you can do while you're on a weight loss journey or trying to burn fat or retrain that metabolic switch from like glucose to fat burn. There's even a study that showed people who have liver congestion, so high liver enzymes, burn 50% less calories than someone who doesn't. It's like a huge deal. >> So why is this the first time we're hearing about things like this? This is wild. >> It's really It's groundbreaking stuff. So it's because a lot of people dismiss the topic because they think blood sugar is for diabetics and they're like I'm not diabetic so I'm fine. >> That's kind of what I thought. >> Yeah. You're like cool. Right. So I am not diabetic and when I learned about women's hormones a lot of it was rooted in blood sugar and I just totally dismissed that whole like that whole chapter of the the um certification because I was like oh I'm fine. That doesn't involve me. But really blood sugar is the cornerstone of like all of our metabolic processes. It's so important. I think people just aren't talking about it enough. >> Is it just newer that we're finally discovering this? >> You know what? Really, you know what has really shed some light on it? That's interesting. GLP >> ones. Yep. Okay, so hear me out on this. >> GLP1s were not designed to be a weight loss peptide or drug, right? They were designed to um help people who had diabetes because their blood sugar was high. What happened was biohackers and people who understood like the biology of you know longevity were like wait if sugar metabolism and glucose is responsible for hormones fat metabolism you know preventing all these diseases why aren't we utilizing these drugs and peptides preventatively and more so on a biohacking level right like not do it because you're you're diabetic now you need this drug it's more like hey you're healthy but you have some metabolic inflexibility. Let's let's just see what happens here if we if we fix glucose, fix insulin. And then what happened? People got on the peptide and lost a lot of weight. >> Yeah. >> So, you're losing weight because it's regulating blood sugar and insulin. That's what the peptide is doing. It does curb appetite, but at the root, these amino acid peptides were created to regulate blood sugar and insulin for diabetics. So, what happens when you regulate blood sugar and insulin? Your body loses weight. It's all about like people think I need to lose weight so I can get healthy. Actually, your body first needs to get healthy and regulate blood sugar and insulin in order to lose weight. >> Talk to me about micro doing Yeah. >> GLP1s and what does that mean to the listener that doesn't understand that? How much is it? How often are you taking it? And what are the benefits? >> Okay. So, clearly not a doctor, can't prescribe, can't tell you what to do, not do with your body. Um, but I I I work with a lot of women who micro dose um with GLPS and have insane results. It's all about the approach. >> What does that mean? Does it mean are you taking it daily? You take it twice a week. What What's >> It can be tailored, honestly. So, it could be once a week. You could split it into two, three doses. It is much smaller of a dose where all it's really doing is maybe curving the appetite a little bit, but the magic really is in the insulin and blood sugar that it's doing. It's regulating insulin and blood sugar. is helping bring that down so your body gets into a fat burn. And it's all about the approach. So you couple a GLP with strength training and with protein, you know, healthy protein fats, fiber forward diet. Limit like really limit the the starches and carbs because those spike the blood sugar the most. But that is a perfect storm for just insane results like you know from a body comp perspective, but also biometrics. I mean, your A1c goes down, your um fasting insulin gets improved, and then every other biome even like we've seen um GLPs support liver because you're cleansing out the the glucagon stuck from liver congestion. >> Why are they being hated on so much by 50% of the people? Is it because they're angry they can't afford it or is it because they're angry that uh maybe they're a personal trainer and they're threatened by it? Like why does half the population seem to fight against it? I think that people feel like it's cheating and that people feel like it's just like a cheat code and like a diet disaster. But just like with anything, there's a right and wrong way to do it, right? Like what's your intention with it? Is your intention to take this GLP so you don't have to exercise and you don't have to eat healthy and it's just like it is your cheat code? That's personal constitution, right? So, but like when you do it the right way and you have good intention, like I want to heal metabolically. I want to fix, you know, my body and curing insulin and blood sugar, which is not just good for fat burn, but it's also prevents the diabetes, the blood sugar, you know, the um cardiovascular, the Alzheimer's, dementia, then there's just a right way and wrong way to do it. >> It kind of reminds me of testosterone, right? Some people say, "Oh, that's cheating." So, you can't just take testosterone and sit on the couch. muscles, >> but if you take testosterone and go at the gym, you're going to get a better return on investment for your hard work. >> Yeah. I truly like >> unfortunately we just live in an environment where diet and lifestyle sometimes is not enough. >> Yeah. >> It's like here's the deal. >> Stacked against us. >> Yeah. If you if you aren't working out or eating healthy, K, you got to start there. Like we have to get the foundations in place. You can't just go to a GLP, right? like let's dial in the diet, let's do the workouts, let's support nervous system, whatever. But let's say I mean I meet I'm meeting with like high performing women that are doing the diet, are doing the lifestyle, they're literally perfect in in every aspect, but they are not seeing results and they don't feel great, right? They don't feel like at the elite level that they want to feel. And that's where it's like why not use these bio hacks, these needle movers and use it the right way. Be responsible, but like again go into it think knowing like this is fixing blood sugar and insulin and that's the byproduct of the body comp that's happening. >> So how do we support our liver? >> Like what does that look like? You know you said everything we should really think about supporting your liver in order to lose weight and feel our best. What are some of the things we do? >> Yes. I'm obsessed with the liver. It's funny. My daughter um she went to her like muffins with mom event at school and the question was like what does your mom do and she's like my mom loves her liver. >> Oh my god that's so funny. >> Does she love eating or does she lie like that's that's what my daughter thinks I do is the liver. >> That's amazing. That must mean you talk about it a lot. >> I talk about it a lot. And when I first used to talk about people were like what's your deal? Like I don't smoke and drink like my liver is fine. But the reality is is we all have um downregulated livers because we live in a world again, lots of toxins, lots of stress, unlike any other time in history. They say that our liver is now working 3,000 times harder than it's ever had to work. And so what happens and why this is so important is our liver is responsible for over 500 functions in our body. It's responsible for converting thyroid function, for storing micronutrients, for fat metabolism, um for removing toxins from our body, keeping us alive, right? There's like 500 functions our liver is responsible for. So why is it important to support your liver? It's because if you want all those functions working great, if you want to wake up in like elite peak performance, it's all rooted in liver. If you want balanced hormones, we got to support the liver. If you want to burn fat, got to support the liver. If you're inflamed, all of it, right? So, how do you do that? There's so many different ways. Like, well, the detox patch, of course, >> you have your patch on. >> Of course, >> we need to learn all about that. >> Yeah. Um, castor oil. So, this is like an oil, not petroleum oil in the car. Chris, >> mobile. We don't want to >> I rub Mobile One all over myself and crawl in bed. It's great. >> Go to bed next to Lori. Um, no. So, castor oil has been used in ancient times to to help with like healing and inflammation. So, what we do is we, it sounds crazy, but you put it in your belly button or over your liver, any area of the body where there's inflammation. I've had women put it over their thyroid when they have like autoimmune in their thyroid or even uterus if they have endometriosis, right? Or they like have um any kind of tear muscle, whatever, like they're they have an active injury. So, castor oil and then with like a heating pad for 30 minutes and that will activate st like blood flow to the liver and then it will penetrate to like start pulling out those impurities. A lot of women will like sleep with it overnight. The liver does go through a natural detox in the middle of the night. So, if you find like you're waking up in the middle of the night, it could be really indicative of your liver trying to flush. And so, so yeah, castor oil has been really great. I love to use castor in the sauna. Do you guys use a sauna at all? >> A sauna? Yeah. Yeah, once in a while I do. >> Okay. >> I grew up saunaing. I love saunas. Yeah, >> it's so fun. I'm obsessed with sauna. It's the best way to detox. Like >> it's so because your body basically gets rid of, you know, crap from from stool, pee, and then sweat. That's like your three pathways out. >> So, sauna is pathway number four. >> Yeah, sauna is amazing because it gets everything out. And so, I'll actually put castor oil over my liver, go in the sauna, and I am like, >> yeah, it's crazy. Like if I use the castor oil, I will be in an active detox sweating like crazy within 7 minutes. When I don't use the castor oil, it takes me like 14 minutes. Really interesting. >> Yeah, cuz I I have like this gene mutation where I don't methylate or detox well MTFHR. So, I have to work really hard to detox. Interesting. But yeah, the castor oil will like cut the time in half to get me into a detox. >> This kind of leads us to your patches. You've created and shorvented. >> Yeah. this really cool patch system. >> Yes. >> Uh that does different things. Different patches for different things. >> Yeah. >> Tell us like first of all, where did the idea come from? Why patches? Yeah. >> And like what do you what do you got? >> Oh my gosh. Okay. So, the patch method is um a company that I found and started literally this year. And it was it came like it was birthed from my experience working with women and sitting down with them. We're working on their metabolism. were going over root cause, like what's causing inflammation, why their metabolism is not working, and they would give me the whole laundry list of all the supplements they were taking. And then within their labs, they're like deficient on half the things they're taking. And I'm like, okay, there is a pattern here. Why are we not absorbing our vitamins? Like, why? What is And then also, people are just tired of taking supplements, you know, like we're just all taking like a mortgage payment of pills every day. And I was like, I don't know about you guys, but for me, I was. >> Um, >> you just take them cuz someone tells you to. you're like, I need that. Instagram told me I need that, too. Um, no. So, I was like, there's got to be like another delivery model outside of supplements, you know, taking pills. And I started really just kind of researching like how do you absorb a supplement, right? So, if you look at um the the science of absorption, what happens is first when you take a pill, >> your your liver has to break it down first, right? So if you have liver congestion, >> oh wow, it's already not doing its job. >> It's not going to break it down, right? So that's pathway one. Then after your liver, your gut has to um absorb it. So we know how important the gut is with glossy, right? We got to like support our gut microbiome. Well, if you have IBS or you're not supporting your gut, you don't have a good microbial balance. If you have leaky gut, if you have parasites, right, your gut is not going to prioritize absorbing vitamin B or really anything. And so with that science they've shown we are maybe absorbing 10% of our our supplements right now maybe. And that's if they are like not synthetic. >> Wow. >> Yeah. So it's really it's a it's a it's a big deal. And I think why more now than ever to kind of like bring this full circle is we live in a world today in a landscape today that is so different from any other time in history. We are exposed to so much more. Our bodies are under so much more stress and it's causing us to not absorb. Our livers are overwhelmed, right? So that's why we're seeing all this like and no one feels great, everyone feels inflamed, like no one has good energy, everyone has brain fog, like all of this, our body works like so synergistically together and it's like truly the root cause. And so with the patch method, I saw all this going on, reading about it, I'm like there's got to be a another delivery model. We got to make this easier. And I started thinking like, wait, there's like nicotine patches and then, you know, there's um hormone creams. Like us women will try progesterone or estrogen via cream because their do the doctors know >> they can control um dosage better. >> That actually started in sports world. Yeah. So they they would find, oh, I could boost my testosterone by putting on some hormone creams. Yeah. And they technically weren't banned yet by sports until they caught on. >> Yeah. Cuz see, and this is all your skin is the largest organ in your body. Everything that touches your skin goes into your bloodstream. That's why everyone too in like the health world is like don't you don't you know use um hand soap that has chemicals in it. Change out your laundry detergent with no chemicals because you're sleeping in those sheets and those chemicals are getting in your blood, your skin, your blood, all the things. And so like the knowledge is there but it's like oh I was thinking like why are we not doing that with vitamins? >> Interesting. >> Why are we not wearing our vitamins? Yeah, we're doing it with other things. We we get the concept. So then I just went to researching like how we could do this meeting with manufacturers. um working with formulators on like what are different ingredients and herbs that work synergistically together but not just that like how do we actually penetrate it into the skin into the blood so it can bypass the gut and the liver. Yeah. >> Um so with the patch it doesn't even have to go through the gut and liver go straight in the >> So if I'm hearing it right it creates a shortcut so that it is more bioavailable. >> Yep. >> Instead of having all these challenges that a traditional vitamin or supplement has to go through and by the time it gets to the finish line there's 10% of it left. >> Correct. Yeah. Yeah, and that's why I call it like biohacking made simple. Like it's just even like traveling, you just grab your patch and go. Um, you know, instead of taking 10 pills, you take one p, you wear one patch because each patch has like up to 10 different supplements in it. Uh, so yeah, it's it's not only cost effective, but it streamlines your process and you're absorbing it. >> Do you put on a different patch every day? Does it last for a while? >> I I'll like patch stack. So, um, depends on what I'm on. >> Lori, it's like your jewelry stacks, >> honestly. Yeah. It's so fun. Um, so we have first we launched the metabolism patch because again women were coming to me for that. I'm like there's a need here. Let's bring out the metabolism patch. So that one is very activating. I say wear that in the morning, don't wear it at night. Um, it's great for like wearing right before a workout because it will really activate the fat burn and the energy. So that one's a really fun one. And then >> you put that one on and you feel more energy. >> Oh yeah. In fact, I launched my podcast and and the next day I was on a podcast and I was so mentally drained. It's the adrenaline, right? you're so like nervous, such a big day, then you're like, "Wow, now I'm on another podcast." And I was dragging >> and then I like put the patch on and I had the best conversation of my life. Like I felt so narrowed in, so intentional, so focused. Yeah. Like >> do you have one here? >> Yeah, I gave some to Lori actually. Yes. >> Oh, I'm I'm doing one. >> We're doing it. Yeah. >> We're going to get We're going to do a patch stud. Great. >> Okay. So, that one that one's a hit. And then the detox patch we're wearing over our liver. >> We already have it on. So, um I always recommend wear that one at night. So, in the morning, you got your metabolism. You throw it. It's a 12-h hour patch. You can take it off before you're going to bed. I have like my mouth tape and like everything out at night. For me, I have my patch ready to go. So, mouth tape, patch, and the detox one has sulfurophane, which activates three pathways of liver detox. Milk thistle, which supports liver detox. Glutathione, which is a it is an antioxidant, so really preserves cellular function. CoQ10, again, another like fountain of youth, um, supplement, has arnica, great for inflammation and circulation. Um, some Chinese herbs, like really powerful. >> So, hypothetically, hypothetically, if somebody walked into a restaurant last night and they were handed a glass of champagne and he drank it, and then his buddy bought him an old-fashioned and he drank it >> and then the waitress brought him a martini, so he drank it. >> Yeah, >> the liver patch is probably a good idea. It is a great great idea. There's nothing there's nothing better than like like I'll even be getting ready for a date night. I'm like, "Okay, we're going out for some wine tonight. Got to put my detox patch on." You know, got to support the liver. All the patches on. I know. >> Yeah. And then we launched a testosterone boosting patch because again, that was a trend. Like I'm I'm always identifying like what are patterns here? Like what are people talking to me most about? Like um and so yeah, tes everyone's on testosterone, everyone has low drive, all of that. And so testosterone is great. I'm not against HRT at all, but I'm like, here's an option to boost it naturally. It's using Chinese and Eastern herbs. I work with an acupuncture on formulating it and it just naturally increases testosterone. So, it's a great, you know, thing to start if you feel like your tea is low or, you know, it's low and you don't want to quite go into the HRT route. The patch is a great modality for sure. >> That's really cool. I've got a buddy that he was asking about that. He's like, I just don't want to go the HRT route, but he wants to boost it, so I'm going to send him one. That sounds cool. >> Yeah, that one. And then we have the immunity patch because cold flu season, no one wants to get sick, right? Yeah. So, it's got like vitamin C, D, zinc, elderberry, all the goods to just like boost your immune system. And then we're done. >> That should be the before you get on an airplane patch. >> Oh, honestly, we went to Europe. We went to um Italy last month. And my girls are so cute. By the way, these are great for kids cuz how easy it is like here, where wear your patch. Um so, we were on the plane. Yeah. I'm like immunity detox because um radiation flying. If you ever like get puffy like you know when you go on vacation, you're like why are people puffy? Like Yeah, a lot of that's radiation and and flying at high altitudes. And so I find I'll take like a binder, which like a activated um charcoal, if you will, with the detox patch just to kind of support that. >> Wait, I need a skinny patch before I go to the beach. An abs patch. >> An abs patch. Oh my gosh, the I feel like we can make all the patches. >> Let's do it. Yeah, >> and you will. And you will. Okay, so where can we get them? >> Okay, so you can go to the patchmethod.com and you can order them there. But I have a really fun promotion for for your guys' peeps, your guys' besties. Okay, so if you go to the patch method, it's on Instagram. Find me on Instagram. And I want you to DM me, Lori. L O R I. And the first 20 people that do that are going to get a free patch kit. >> Oh, that's cool. >> And then everyone else is going to get $20 off their first pack. >> That's so exciting. That's so nice of you to do that. >> Yeah. So just find us on Instagram. So the patch method. >> Okay. >> Um and >> and DM Lori. L O R I. Yep. >> And it'll just they'll automatically either get the free ones or the >> I don't know. Yeah. But so race there run don't walk and the first ones get Yeah. Free and then >> That's awesome. >> Yeah. So everyone up so kind of you. >> That's so exciting. Well, thank you so much for coming. Yeah. Thanks. >> I feel like I learned so much so quick. I heard things that I've never heard before that once you hear them, you're like, damn it, I could have just been doing this the whole time or I could, you know. >> Yeah. You'll be surprised if you support your liver, like you'll see crazy shifts and you'll be still eating and doing all the same things. >> That's cool. Well, thanks for sharing all coming on. >> Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24/7. And of course, Revo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code happy50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com/happy brevo.com/happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. When you're growing a company, you know that you need good people around you in order to get to the next level. And right now, there's a talented person out there who could take your company to the place that you want. But the question is, do you want to just hope that they see your job posts before your competitors, or do you want to match with them using Indeed sponsored jobs? If I had to hire someone for the show tomorrow, I wouldn't mess around with candidates who look decent on paper but don't even get what I do. I'd want somebody who already has worked in podcasting and editing and software and understands workflow and can jump in and not only do the job well, but help take us to where we want to go. That's why I use Indeed sponsored jobs. They help you find people who actually fit what you're looking for. Stop struggling to get your job post even seen on other sites. With sponsored jobs, your post is boosted to reach quality candidates, the kind of people who can help your business thrive and drive the results that you need. And the best part is you only pay for results. In fact, sponsored jobs posted directly on Indeed are 95% more likely to report a hire than non-sponsored jobs. So if you're hiring, Indeed is all you need. And I like those stats. So spend less time searching and more time actually interviewing candidates who check all your boxes. Less stress, less time, more results now with Indeed sponsored jobs. And listeners of this show will get a $75 sponsored job credit to help get your job the premium status it deserves at indeed.com/mpodcast. Just go to indeed.com/mpodcast right now and support our show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed.commpodcast terms and conditions apply. Hiring do it the right way with Indeed. Ashley, welcome back to the podcast. You're on the Earn Your Happy podcast and the Chris Harter show. >> It's funny because I've been joking uh you know this is your second time on the show and a couple other people were as well that we recorded over the past couple days. I'm like you're becoming our resident expert on blank. So in your case you're becoming our resident expert in Pilates and the business of building a Pilates. >> I love that. and truly an expert because I want to say like watching you from even the last time you were here and what you have created with your Pilates studio and can I just say Pilates community, you're doing something that is insane to me which you probably don't even realize, but you get like 200 people together every Wednesday in your community. >> Yeah. >> To to go do rooftop Pilates, mind you, you have a physical location, >> two of them >> to get 200 people together. I think I think people who are really good at it naturally do not realize that that is one of the biggest challenges to rally people to come together around something. And I think that alone is where I want to start with how you have created this incredibly inclusive community around Pilates because it can have a a stigma of like only hot girls do Pilates or whatever that looks like or a certain type of person does Pilates or you have to already be fit or you have to already be flexible. And I think what you do is bring it be it's so approachable for all people whether you're already really into Pilates or whether you have a different body shape or whatever you believe and watching your stories because you're in Vegas but watching who all comes together I'm like I want to be a part of that because it's really a movement that you're creating. >> Thank you. Yeah, that is that's exactly the goal. >> It's like a movement for movement actually. Like we're really blessed because Pilates is in the it's in the culture right now. People are talking a lot about Pilates, but that's also kind of a curse sometimes because people might see a vision of Pilates and think, "Oh, that's not for me." for whatever reason, whether it's like the complexity of it or the athleticism of it or just even seeing a hot beautiful woman in a perfect outfit and just think ooh like maybe almost kind of like that like when I get to this place I can try it, right? >> So kind of trying to break through that and just get anyone who is called when they see when they see us like oo I want to try that is really truly the goal. And what's really cool about the root so we did in the summertime we did sunrise because in Vegas it's really hot at night. Well, it's really hot all the time. >> Yeah. >> But we did sunrise and there was just something so magical about like 250 and I would say our rooftop classes are probably pretty equal men and women. We have actually a lot of guys coming out >> to this class and just watching like >> the sea of people on a roof like you know doing working hard like planking and you know Pilates is not not necessarily easy but everyone it's approachable like there's like we layer and they have a place to start but seeing all these people doing this together and then afterwards grabbing coffee or um and then when we moved it back to the evenings it's a sunset and going down for happy hours together and and things like that is just really cool to watch because yeah taking an hour hour of your day to go do something because you have to drive there, you have to park there, >> it's it's hard to do in the first place, but to get people to come do it for movement um is is really a blessing and it's so cool to watch. >> I want to follow up on this because Lori already emphasized it, building community and I don't care what kind of business you have, you have to be good at building community. You gave a couple good examples like the rooftop activations. What are some other things that you've done to build community because you're doing it so well? Yeah, community I think is 100% key, especially Well, I think obviously it works for both brickandmortar and a online business, but with brick and mortar, you see your competition right across the street sometimes. >> Yeah. >> Um whether it's a restaurant or a fitness studio. And so what we've done and what I think is kind of where I started because I, you know, when you're new, you kind of just are throwing ideas out there, but giving um our clients and people that are finding you, whether it's on Instagram or through their friends, an example of someone who looks like them in the space. >> So, a lot of diversity in our staff, a lot of diversity in our team, the styles of music that we play, the styles of classes that we have on our schedule, like they're not all advanced, they're not all beginner. It is a we just we're giving a lot of variety and times for them to come and >> kind of just showing them that it look it's it looks like a lot of things. It doesn't look one specific way and hopefully in that way you will see yourself somewhere somewhere in our community >> and then and then yeah involving other businesses in your activations not just like keeping it to yourself. >> Oh that's smart. finding other other collaboration. Yes. And collaboration within your community, not just >> not just um a a national brand like not just like getting a water brand or a energy drink. I think finding like for us it's other um wellness or beauty or clothing like you know I have a local girl who makes swimsuits who's going to do an activation with us and you know so there's just a lot of ways and creative ways I think to bring other spaces and it's one of those things that I know Lori preaches a lot but like what can I do for you? So it's like we're helping each other out. >> Gosh, you do so well at it. >> I love that. Okay. So, we we want an update because last time you were on and your um podcast uh came out, so everybody may have already like heard part of your story. Um last time you were here, you were talking about the move into a bigger, more exciting studio and you had just completed the buildout, but you were also worried about whether or not your students would follow like the four miles because it was like very different. People were kind of putting up a like, you know, this might be challenging. Tell us all the updates. >> Yes. So, as of today, we have been in the new space for about two weeks. So, still very fresh. We're still >> loving the stories. >> Is still drying, >> but the the space has been received so well. I think we prepped them in enough time to give them like chance to wrap their head around like, okay, well, the drive might be farther for me. It's for some it's closer. So, we had like a win-win for a lot of people because they were super like that's closer to my home, which is beautiful. But the people who who I think at first were hesitant or resistant um kind of had some time to think about it and kind of wrap their head around whatever the commute might might extend to. And then we really packaged it up with like we're offering you guys more. So yes, it's more space and more reformers, more people can get off those weight lists, but also we added two other classrooms that have we've already started sprinkling in other classes. And I can't believe how excited people are about the other equipment. Like Pilates actually has more than just the mat and the reformer. There's a Cadillac trapeze contraption that I want to try it. >> Yeah, it's super fun. And then there's a chair and there's spring-loaded um other exercises. And >> I just having them we we did a glass door so like people can like walk past and like peek in on their way into >> into the reformer room. And I like I can't build the schedule up fast enough. like the new classes are already filling up which is incredible and and it's giving people variety. It's still Pilates. We're not really changing. It's not like we're adding a whole new method to confuse the the messaging but adding more for them to try and shake up their day and you know give them something more like another exciting thing to try. That's so smart. I've actually not seen a studio like that that I've been to where there's a lot of different options because if you like one form, you might like the other form. And I also love that you did glass doors because that's already your ideal customer to be like, "Look at this." It takes a little bit of the intimidation factor away with also making them curious. >> Um, and one thing I know about people is most people like variety. So if I ever, you know, kind of get bored with one class, you have multiple challenges for people to move into, even if challenge just means something different than what they're used to. Love that. >> And that's smart because it retains like retention is a big thing in business. M >> it retains your students when the natural human need for curiosity takes over. >> Yeah. >> Right. They're either going to be like, "Oh, maybe I should now go try bar. Maybe I should go try this." >> But instead of them having to try something radically new, they can try the different reformer. They can try the different class. So it helps out with retention. >> And you're you're absolutely right. People naturally whether they love Pilates for life, they still might want to try something different because your body just craves it. >> Yeah. So, I think this is a great way to like keep them in our community even even if they still, you know, branch out and go to yoga or go to CrossFit when they're with us. They they know that they've got a couple other options than just the same class, especially if like the hardest part is like scheduling. You know, we can't determine we can't forecast when all of our advanced clients want to come. And so like if we put like a reform to you know more advanced class on at 7 am and then it just happens that like a lot of first- timers also want to come at 7 am and how to how to forecast for that. So having well you know we might have an advanced class in this room but in this room we have a math class and they're doing more bar or they're doing a little bit more you know TRX or something that might be kind of a fun little you know mix it up and so then they don't necessarily are like um committed to that specific class and that specific hour. >> So smart. You're thinking long term and a lot of business owners are just thinking how do I fill tomorrow's class >> and you're thinking retention by making these moves. It's it's absolutely brilliant. Question for you. Um, you have two studios now and I know you want to scale to many studios. I think we kicked around the idea of 10 of them, right? >> Who's still there? >> How do you do that? And I'm not talking about building community. Now, that was a different question. How do you keep the actual culture and heart and soul of a business when you go from one or two to like 10 locations? >> Yeah, I think that is the the golden like miraculous unicorn question. >> You're like, I'll let you know when I get there. >> Yeah. 100%. I mean, I think >> what do you think you're going to do? >> So, there's a lot of things. Obviously, you have to get organized. You have to have systems in place. Um, and I think what I'm really coming to find is that hiring, obviously, making beautiful hires of people who also love the community as much as you do. So, that even though you can't clone yourself as much as we try, um, that people are experiencing the same types of experiences in each place. And and I think that part of what we do and in not just focusing on aesthetics or not just focusing on certain people, certain body types, we are we're creating a lot of magic within. So we have staff that's keeping keeping the community and keeping the the soul of the brand together, but so are our clients. >> Like I see our clients like, "Oh, you're new here. Let me show you around." So it kind of just trickles down throughout the whole space if you set the tone. Um but that is you know you definitely have to work hard at that. It's it's systems. It's it's over repeating you know kind of your message and saying it again and again like we are the good place and we we think everyone should be here. We think everyone can do this. We think everyone should try it at least once and um we can't wait to have you back. >> Brilliant. Culture is what's repeated. So you're doing the repeating quote unquote of the message, the culture, the everything and then what people hear in repetition becomes truth. >> Yeah. Yeah. And it kind of just starts to be an echo that even when you're not there, it's still there. >> That's so good. I think it's it's one of the biggest pieces. I am I am such a like a critiquing person when I go to classes because it's it's like >> judging Judgers. >> I look I want to I I wish it's funny. I want to start this show called like vibe check where I go to all these different places and I'm like you're missing the vibe check. You're not passing the vibe. >> You are not like setting the tone of culture from the top down. Cuz when people go to classes, we typically go because yes, we want to work out but I think 50% or more are going because they're lonely or they want community or they can't be motivated on their own and they want somewhere that they feel accepted and like that you show up and people know your name or you feel good about it >> like cheers. And I think most most workout places are missing it >> because I think you go and you check in and I think maybe the front desk girl could be friendly, but I think right away I can know by how I get in the room and if everyone's on their phone or doesn't look at you or none of the members want to talk to you or ever talk to anyone else. >> Yeah. >> And I'm like, is this actually a place I want to be if this is how it is? Because otherw I could work out alone at home. Do you know what I mean? >> Yeah. Or you could just go to a gym and run through a program. >> Exactly. >> On a YouTube video. >> Absolutely. like community is so what you're doing is it helps everything repeat without you being there. What would you say cuz I know you explained it a little bit and it's from top down but what are some tips that like that doesn't happen unless you are truly like really instilling that into people in a certain way. How do you teach people to be that way? >> That's really hard. I think the good news is that people who don't agree with that or don't feel that way kind of trickle out. They do. >> Oh, interesting. >> Yeah. If you're upholding that standard, they're going to feel uncomfortable. They're going to self- select out. >> I think so, cuz you you'll see it sometimes even with clients that prefer to not be seen, like prefer to kind of just have the head down and, you know, like, "Hi, what's your name?" Like, "Is this your first time?" You know, like you, >> this place is annoying. I got >> Sometimes they're like, "Yeah." and they may they maybe they leave with a smile by the end and they're like oh like because sometimes I think it's kind of scary. They're like oh they're talking to me because they're so used to the other. But um so some of that I think self- selects out and kind of goes away like oh they you know that isn't the place for me. I'd rather just get in and get out. But having more people feel safe and like you know making a friend or like hey I see you. We're here at the same class every single day. Like what's your name? I watch it happen. It's great. and and my my staff go they like go to movies with the clients like they're all just there's just such a community and >> I think with in exercise you're vulnerable. >> Yeah. >> Whether you know it or not. I think a lot of people know it especially if they're new to it. But >> you're putting your body out there, you're sweating. >> Yeah. You're you're doing a lot of things that like >> a lot of new things. Like most people have not done these Pilates. >> What if I look silly? >> I was so intimidated. This was two months ago and all I did was work out and I was intimidated. >> Yeah. because there's something about it like the apparatus and we keep the lights dimmer so like we definitely do some things to make it more comfortable so you don't feel like you're on display but because of TikTok and because of social media people just feel like I need to look like that you know so I think that the fact that we kind of celebrate the fact that like hey we all just survived that class together like and we just really are championing championing everybody and encouraging the cross not the cross talk during class but before and after and you know hey like who went to this concert last night or like we're playing this like it's just there's a lot of conversation and we're trying to like bring the clients in with us and not just like the teachers are chatting over here and just trying to keep that a consistent and you almost don't even have to force it. It just if it keeps going it's going to keep going. So that's just I think it just happens naturally. I I couldn't believe how many of the newer or the clients at our new space I saw giving other clients tours. >> Wow. >> You know what I mean? Because like our new space is so much bigger, they have to like walk back down the hall >> and if the front desk was busy, I I I saw like twice in the last week like, "Come on, I'll show you." >> Oh, there take it like little leadership roles. >> Yeah, let me show you how to do the lockers, you know, like things like that. So, it's really great when you see it happening, not just with your staff, but with your with your students. >> So cool. >> I think a lot of that is like you are community- based and you have meaning like you do community events. You truly are about community. You're not just like, "Okay, we're just going to do these classes and then you leave." It's like, "We want you in the community, so now come to this event." Now, it's kind of like mingle and come and join this thing. So, I think there's so much that you're putting out there and how you are inclusive and how you do show up and so much is from the top down of how you are and that you're friendly and you attract people like that. >> That trickles into your uh you've got a really unique teacher training program. Tell us about that. Why is that important? So the teacher training program was important at first as a necessity. It's like there's not enough teachers. The demand for classes was Yeah. So it was like all right, who wants to learn how to be a teacher? And to be fair, shout out to Molly, my first trainee, but she kind of like forced me. She I was not quite ready time-wise and capacity-wise. And she was like, "Please, like, I really want to be a teacher. Like take me on as kind of like an apprentice." And so it kind of started with her. And it was just so rewarding and so much fun. And it was a chance for me to kind of take Pilates and all the great things about the classical work and what's amazing about Pilates, but instill the things that I was trying to do at the Good Place in her as a coach from the top. So that she didn't first learn how to be a Pilates teacher and then learn how to treat people well and then learn how to cheer on, you know, the client that's struggling. She got to do that while she was in teacher training. And so then I kind of realized that's something really magical that we can do here because even if they coach many other kinds of exercises, they're going to be they're not just going to be I like to use the word coach more because I feel like yeah, you're a teacher traininee and you're learning how to teach Pilates, but really you're coaching people through movement and it's it's important again the vulnerability aspect of what the client is trying to do in front of you and how can you make them feel safe so they'll they'll go for it. And it went from something that was a necessity because you had to find teachers to now it's like a really cool program that anyone who wants to become a Pilates instructor can come and learn from you. >> Yeah. Yeah. And that's kind of part of the reason why we expanded. It was also to create more space for that aspect of our business because the teacher training program is as much as I love teaching Pilates and and running the business, like teaching the training the trainers has become like >> magical and it's just so much fun. And then watching them grow like watching them take their first like their first class to their first group class to you know they've been teaching on that rooftop with me. >> Yeah. And that's just so >> so if I if I live in Miami and I want to learn from you, if I live in Wisconsin, I want to learn from you. I can come take your teacher training. >> Absolutely. >> Yeah. And can you do it online yet or that's coming? Potentially >> online will be coming. Uh right now it definitely is in person. Um because we did expand. We used to have a program where it took about six months and you would come on weekends, but with this new space and this new expansion, in 2026, you will be seeing it kind of more condensed into they could probably come and stay with us in Vegas for maybe like two weeks and get the inerson >> and then work it out, I think virtually the rest of the way. >> If they want to get on the waiting list for that, where do they go? >> They'll go to our website. If they go to the goodplacellelv.com, there is a drop down for teacher training to get on the the info sheet. >> The goodplacellv is in Las Vegas. The goodplacellelv.com. >> If I wasn't doing what I'm what I'm doing, I would I'm >> used to love to teach like boot camps, but I'm like now I'm like this would be so >> I mean listen, never say never next chapters. Honestly, I know a lot of women who we're meeting because I'm I we're going to Pilates, me and my friend. Um, and we are meeting so many women who have other jobs, but they love being a Pilates teacher so much, Pilates coach, because it's so like fulfilling to have that in their life. >> So, I hope this plants some seeds for some people if you're even feeling >> maybe I'll become one. >> Yeah. I don't know. I I do have a really special person that I coached to become a Pilates teacher over the past two years. My mother. >> Oh, no way. >> On her 60th year of life, she was like semi-retired from the tech world. She consults and she was helping me a lot and then >> she was loving it and she was getting her strength and osteoporosis diagnosed. So like she was very conscious of needing to build muscle and found herself in the studio a bunch and I'm like why don't you just learn how to do it? So, she went through the program and she's like one of our most popular teachers. >> Oh my god. So cool. >> Wait, that is magical. That is so special and so >> much purpose. >> It's incredible. I love that. >> It's I I love watching. And most people don't know. The cat's out of the bag now, I guess. But most people don't even know that she's my mom. >> That's >> And it's really fun when when I get feedback on coaches and they're like, "Oh my gosh, I just really love Sue's classes." And I'm like, >> "Go Sue." >> Yes. >> Go Sue. All right. So, the goodplacellelv.com and what's the Instagram? >> The same. Thegoodplaceelv. >> All right. Love it. >> Mhm. You guys should go and follow it even if you're not in the area because you know you're going to visit Vegas anyway. So, >> yes. Come see us anytime you're in Vegas. >> Go drop in. >> Make it the one thing that's not aromasin that you do there. >> Yeah. Exactly. >> But you'll look so good. It's sinful. Okay. >> We can take that out. >> No, I love it. >> All right. Thank you so much for coming on. >> Thank you so much for having me, you guys. >> You're the best. >> Yes. So are you. If you're just starting your business or you're looking for a really good foundation in your business, start with Northwest Registered Agent and get access to thousands of free guides, tools, and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business all in one place. Build your complete business identity with Northwest Today. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1,500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws, and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast with Northwest Registered agent and get access to thousands of free resources, forms, and step-by-step guides without even creating an account. Sign up for a free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyerdrafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale, and more. All at no cost. Don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregistered.comfree and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.comfree. You know that moment when a meeting ends and someone says, "Let's remember to circle back on this next week." Everyone nods, but no one writes it down and next week rolls around and everyone forgets. That's why Granola exists. Granola is an AI powered notepad built for the way real people actually meet. Here's how it works. You take rough notes like you normally would and in the background granola securely transcribes the meeting. Then it turns everything into a clean, structured, actually useful notes when the meeting ends. And the best part is that Granola works through your devices audio which means it integrates seamlessly into the video conferencing tools you already use. And there's no setup and there's no awkward bots. It's just your normal meeting with superpowers. So, you get to actually listen instead of frantically typing every word and still walk away knowing exactly what was decided, who's doing what, and what comes next. And I have to tell you that before using Granola, my meetings were very much the classic entrepreneur chaos where I jump from mastermind calls to team meetings to partnerships, scribbling notes everywhere, then spending extra time afterward trying to piece together action items or remember what we actually decided. So, the first time I saw Granola's notes after a meeting, I was honestly shocked by how organized and complete everything was. It felt like getting my brain back, now I can actually stay present in the conversation instead of worrying about capturing every single detail. So, if you're in a season of big vision, big conversations, and a lot of moving parts, Granola makes sure nothing falls through the cracks. If meetings are eating up your day, Granola is a no-brainer. You can try it totally free for three months. Just head to granola.AI/earn. That's granola.AI to get your time back. Get three months free at granola.AI/earn. >> Matt, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast and the Chris Harter show. I'm excited we get to interview you together today. >> So, this is actually a real treat for me. Um, you know, you are somebody who is not just my PT for helping me recover from my torn bicep and my torn shoulder. You're not someone who is not, you know, just my uh personal trainer as well, right? So, physical therapist, personal trainer, but you've also become a really good friend over the years. And so, it's exciting to sit down and be able to kind of tell the story as to what makes you so special because people need to understand just how special of a human being you are. So, let's start right there if you don't mind. >> Yeah, absolutely. >> In a nutshell, how do you describe what you do? Because when I describe you, I'm like, "Oh, Matt's this badass doctor of physical therapy that just works with Olympians and Navy Seals and once in a while fits guys like me in." That's my description of you. How do you describe what you do? >> Oh, geez. I I always joke that I am probably your worst physical therapist because I don't act like a standard stereotypical one. the guy that you picture laying people down on a plant and stretching their hamstrings and bunch of stuff like that. That's not my forte. Yeah. I'm very much a go against the grain type of guy and I like to think outside the box >> and with that comes a lot of of practice of solving puzzles and that's my forte. Yeah, >> I'm very much a puzzle solver. I love diving in deep and seeing what each person's unique dots connect to form to help them move better and that's really where I enjoy thriving. So, I love to tie in all of the really the different disciplines in the whole entire allied health profession, which is your psychology, your strength conditioning, your your movement science stuff. And so, I use all that to create a pattern that is uniquely yours. And that's how we develop and reverse engineer a program to get you better. It's not a very siloed like we're just going to focus on your shoulder, for example. Yeah. >> You you've you've felt that it wasn't just your shoulder. You're looking at whole body, the whole system. And that's where really that's where the the magic happens. >> And everything's changed. It wasn't, hey, let's just get your shoulder and bicep back. It's now my posture is better and I feel lighter on my feet. Like things that wouldn't be normally related to recovering from a shoulder and bicep surgery. What's the difference between working with a civilian like me >> or an Olympic athlete? No, this is I know it probably sounds funny. >> Don't downplay yourself. I' I've got to assume I mean you work with mostly Navy Seals and and uh Olympians and then got a few guys like me. >> You're an Olympic entrepreneur. >> Yes, an Olympic entrepreneur. What's the difference? So, how do you approach those differently? >> Well, it's interesting, too, because I'm usually the guy that everybody comes to when they tried everything else. >> I get the ones that have been down every single path you could possibly go down, and I'm left with trying to figure out why things didn't work. Um, and so when it comes to it doesn't matter if it's a an Olympic athlete that I work with all over the world, a high net income earnner like yourself, or a tip of the spear Navy Seal guy, everybody has a human body. Yeah. >> Right. And >> so we all abide by these very very similar principles, but it's really just about making you exceptional. And that's really why you came to see me from the the beginning as well. >> True. I wanted to be the exception. >> You wanted to be the exception to the rule. And so it doesn't, like I said, it doesn't matter if if you're an athlete or just uh an everyday civilian as you call it. Everybody has a body whichever means everybody has athletic potential. And that's the that's the foundation that we work from. >> Who works harder, me or a Navy Seal? >> Uh I know there's a there's a very very I I give you a lot of credit, dude. I love our sessions together because you bring the energy and you bring it and it's so much fun and it's been a joy and it's been so much fun watching you progress over the last few months with everything too and it's just it's a testament to how much you put the work in and you see the results from it >> and to be fair the seals will put their head through a wall despite their body but you do it a little bit more intelligently. >> So that's a good answer. Uh, it's been I I will tell you it's been so much fun having him work with someone like you and at your level and just who you are and how you are, just the type of person that you are and how you show up because it's actually impacted even myself and our relationship and I think it's so important for people to hear like when one person in the relationship is working with someone amazing and is kind of going all in on their health, like it really does lift everybody up because he comes home and he's excited about the progress he's made. He's excited about what he's learning from you because it sounds like you take like a very teaching approach as well for them to understand what they're working through. And so it's been such an awesome thing for our just our lives because I'll say that when you know he quote unquote broke his shoulder like tore tore his bicep like that was a defining I think that's such a defining moment for people when they come to you of their character of what they're choosing. Like am I going to get better? Am I going to find someone who actually believes that I could get even better than when I started or am I going to let this be like the thing that oh I tore my bicep everything went downhill from there and so I love that you are so about mindset as well and it's like no we're going to we're going to put our north star of what we're really hoping for and what we want to do and we're going to go there. So, it's been really cool just to watch the progress and I think that's important when people are listening to this of looking for somebody who's also hopeful for you and is like, "No, we're doing this together. We're doing this as a team." So, that is amazing and I I love that about you. So, for somebody listening who feels stuck, maybe they've tried every diet, every workout plan out there, what's the shift in the mindset or strategy that they need to really like reclaim their power for their health? I think it all has to and this is from from my personal perspective too. Like my whole goal with anybody that I'm working with is to develop the rapport and then instill confidence in you. It's really all about buying. Like you you knew about me, you knew what I did, but you didn't really know how I work, how I operate. And my whole goal in the beginning is let's educate you enough so you understand why you're doing what you're doing. Yeah. And that that that serves as that serves as the foundation. So, I think that most people when they get into the physical rehabilitation space or working through an injury or want to achieve some type of a goal, it's they never stick it out long enough, >> right? That's we all expect this really big uh immaculate recovery. We expect some type of really quick fix. That's the mindset, the instant gratification world that we live in right now. And it's just not it's just not the case when it comes to rehabilitating from an injury or achieving some type of performance goal. getting that 1% better that I do with with my athletes. And so, everybody wants to be optimal, but they don't know how to integrate everything together. And so, I can get you strong. I can make you strong in six weeks. You'll feel stronger. I can hypertrophy muscle in like 12 to 14 weeks. Not a big deal. When we're changing over connective tissue, we're working on capacity tissue. Like even with your the shoulder you have, making it stronger, building the in integrity of it, that takes 8 to 12 months to do. And that's a long process. Yeah, >> that's a long process. And it's it's it's on me then to be able to have to to keep you motivated. >> Yeah. >> Throughout the process as well by changing things up, making sure you're understanding where you're going and providing those north stars and navigation points so we can always focus on where we're going, but then have these little milestone markers along the way. >> Where do most people give up? So I I know everyone asks you like, "Oh, you work with high performers, you know, what do they all have in common?" That's a great question. I think the better one is >> where do most people give up or where do they drop the ball that you wish they went? >> Right at the halfway mark typically. >> Yeah. Oh, really? The halfway mark. >> Yeah. Because listen, a lot of PTs are really good at reducing pain and eliminating pain. >> Pain is just information though. It's telling us where we need to to start to pay attention to in the body. And like even with your shoulder, I'm sure you've had some type of pain going on inside that before you even >> Oh, yeah. >> toward the biceps tendon, right? >> Yep. >> And so it's telling us that it's there that we need to address. But pain is never a great metric metric of success. >> I can I can I can give you a rub down right now on the shoulder, Chris. You're going to feel better. Really? Yeah, take the shirt off. >> He's like, "That sounds great. >> Let's let let's let the people see your progress so far." >> Yeah. Boil them up. >> Look looking broad and beefy, baby. >> Anyway, um so they stop when things start to feel better. >> And that's usually the point where you got to like >> make it suck just a little bit more. >> Interesting. Yeah, >> they have to find the pain point. Wait, I talk about this a lot. Like >> good is the enemy of great. And so the reason why people typically don't do what it takes in business >> uh because that's where I apply this um is >> things get pretty good and so they stop feeling any pain points. And this is where I tell them they have to manufacture pain points. Like you have to picture if you don't go this far, what are you going to be without? Who's going to suffer? Uh what is something catastrophic that can happen if you don't keep going? You have to manufacture pain points when things get good or you take your foot off the gas or in your case like you said quit. >> Yeah. And it it's it's really interesting too because we reduce the pain. People are they're feeling good and they want to go right back into whatever high level activity they're doing, but that's also kind of like the the sticking point, the weak point. Yeah. Where it's like maybe you're not actually quite ready there. Maybe the tissue doesn't have the capacity to handle all the jumping and landing that you want to do or or going out and playing like flag football and then you know all of a sudden we're tearing Achilles and rupturing ACL's. >> I saw three of them when I was at my when I was at Duke doing my doctorate just like 22 year old kids. >> Dang. >> Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's all those like we don't see it coming moments um that happen after the fact. So we need to we need to focus on what that ultimate goal is going to be but then also understand that we have to manufacture those pain points. So I will challenge you to do things that are going to make you uncomfortable. >> Yeah. >> And push you to that next level. >> That makes sense. >> This is literally all I can hear are the parallels to entrepreneurship as you're talking. I'm like it's exactly the same. I feel like people quit at the halfway point and you you have to manufacture new pain points in entrepreneurship of like figuring out new skill sets or what's going to happen if you don't reach your ultimate goal like pulling that pain forward. So for for mindset because I'm so interested because I know that that's such a huge piece of what you do. I mean, like I think it's probably outside of obviously you study and you're brilliant in what you do, but to get people to keep on showing up like what what would you say because you do work with such extreme athletes, Olympians, people who are insanely like wealthy and successful. What would you say that you have noticed from just everyday people in your life? What is different about them? >> Yeah. >> Oh, that's a that's a fantastic question. It it is coming down to that mindset too because I what I have to do as a PT and I think as any coach any coach is trying to get somebody where they can't take themselves >> because that's how I I view myself. And so the the ultimate goal is to be able to figure out why they think the way that they do. How does their brain work? And what's really interesting about the parallels between all the entrepreneurship and the high level military personnel and the um the Olympians as well or professional athletes is that they are all in a in a in a mindset state where they've achieved so so so much and they're trying to get to what that next level is going to be like. What's going to help them get that 1% better? And they're willing to typically try anything >> at that point. And so I have to understand, okay, from a motivational standpoint, what is it um that gets you up every single day? What is it that is going to be your purpose and what is the purpose behind the purpose, >> right? And so >> with knowing that information, we can always come back come back to that ultimate um that anchor point so to speak that is the driving force behind why they want to create the change. It's not just about like, hey, I want to get my shoulder better. Yeah. We we established a goal with you that came up just super randomly, right? Which was getting an iron cross. >> Yeah. Doing an iron cross on the rings. >> Yeah. Exactly. And so that that's a driving force for you. Like we can get your shoulder feeling better. We can get you back into the gym, but >> but you've leveraged that goal to do neat shoulder recovery things. >> Correct. And and once again, like I put you in some pretty uncomfortable positions. And what do we do? We explore. >> We explore. And I like to make it fun and playful. And that that's what this should all be about. >> Yeah. >> It should be enjoyable. >> Yeah. And you make it that way. >> I want to switch modes real quick. >> Yeah. The whole world seems to be obsessed with biohacking and anti-aging and all this stuff and you've got a lot of unique perspectives around that. >> Are you probiohacking, antibiohacking? What's a bunch of [\h__\h] out there and what works? >> Well, the answer to question is yes. Everything works. >> For some people. >> Um and like I said, everybody wants to be optimal. So, especially in this space, like looking at high level entrepreneurs and the Olympians and the the military is that it usually had the means and the connections to be able to to go deep down any single one of those paths. >> Um, the problem though is that it may not be uh integrating well with your body. So, what you see is, and this is the big frustration, and listen, I've been down this path many many times, where it's like we've got we got the coach, we've got the PT, we've got the nutritionist on the side. Uh maybe we have this like supplement stack from Instagram that we heard about, right? And we're trying the new trendy thing and we'll invest all the >> all the energy. >> I'm like, is this from Tik Tok? >> Tik Tok gets me a lot. >> Experiment, though. That's fine. Uh we invest all this time and energy going down that going down those different paths. The problem is it they're they're not working with the actual biology of that human being sometimes. And so what ends up happening is you can just be spinning your wheels and you get frustrated. You don't spend enough time on each and every single one of those >> and they may have their own unique value, but if they're not working for your body at worst, it can be very counterproductive and then setting you back. And I I like I said, I took myself down this path. I remember being in graduate school trying to compete in CrossFit competitively. Yeah. while also trying to eat low carb and basically oh god geez >> your brain is just like what are you doing to me >> because that was what was trendy at the time you had Rob Wolf and the whole paleo diet solution thing and like he was doing his jiu-jitsu with it and that got really popular in the CrossFit community. So now once again you're marrying two things that are on their own probably very good as an intervention but together they're detrimental. trying to go high intensity output, trying to burn a lot of sugars, but then also not consuming any. I was bonking. I had no sex drive. There was testosterone that was super low. And I'm 22, 23 years old. Oh, yeah. And can't perform like brain fog and all that. And I thought I was doing everything right. And this is actually a really, really big one that I see across all these high performers is that they go deep down this path and you end up overstressing the body. Yeah. >> So, overstress in the gut, overstressing the muscular muscular skeletal system, overstressing the nervous system, maybe not even sleeping well at night, and it's just it all compounds. And then, especially in men, you see this play out in a lot of like >> high levels of cortisol, which give you that little like fluffy tire around the belly. You start to get some of the the man boobies. [\h__\h] tits. >> The [\h__\h] tits. The [\h__\h] tits. Like, my buddy Kyle, we should probably have that out. >> No, we're leaving that in, Kyle. We're leaving that in. >> And you start to see this play out. So like the pattern recognition piece and so all of a sudden we have to go back now like okay let's let's let's take all this away for a hot second right and let's figure out what is actually working for your body. Yeah. >> And this is where all the testing and stuff comes in. So looking at your gut testing at the the blood work and what your diet looks like and what kind of goals you have from a performance standpoint. Is there inflammation in the body? What does your what are your lifestyle factors? Are you sleeping enough? Are you stressing yourself out with work and relationships and family throughout the day? Because at the end of the day, this is all about stress management. >> That's the name of the game. >> Related to that, >> do you see a big problem in both men and women right now in terms of either testosterone and hormone levels? Is it a bigger problem than it used to be? >> Big time. Absolutely. Yeah. Huge. I mean, men's testosterone levels is super low, alltime low. Worse than what it was 1950s, 60s. >> Why? >> Uh there's there's so many so many variables involved. There's a lot of environmental stuff, >> a lot of with a lot of the antibiotics and the hormones and stuff in our foods and the pesticides, but then also men aren't just as physically active as we used to be either. >> And so before we even go into any of like the peptides and the hormone supplementation, like there are some base level I think markers that we need to hit for especially for men, women too, and actually more so with women on the sleep side of things and the nutrition. It does change slightly. Um, like for example, guys can get away with typically of fasting in the morning and not eating. I don't eat until like 10, 11 o'clock. But women on the other hand, depending on hormone levels, you need to eat first thing in the morning. Okay? There's little nuance changes like that. But for dudes, it's like, are you sleeping enough? You getting like seven, eight hours of restful sleep, too, not just the hours in there. Are you eating enough fat to optimize your hormone levels? Enough protein to support your muscle mass, enough carbohydrates to support your energy level, >> and then are you lifting heavy [\h__\h] >> Yeah. >> Plain and simple. You're not doing all three of those first. That's where we start and then we can start going down into the weeds of all the other exogenous type of supplementation once we get those at a base level. >> Yeah. So, like don't get into the all the fancy injections until you at least do the low hanging fruit. >> Exactly. >> I think I see a lot of people do that. They're like, I'm just going to inject all these peptides and do all this stuff and they're not even doing the low hanging fruit like eating the right number of meals or so it's all kind of for nothing. >> Exactly. And so, like all that stuff in and of itself, once again, all good. Like the peptides create angioenesis, blood flow throughout the system, reduce inflammation, but like even for your shoulder, if we inject all the peptides and stuff into there, yet we're not changing the way the joint's being loaded, >> what's the point? Yeah, we can heal the tissue, right? But then we're just going to go back to square one and maybe you can get it back to a baseline, but that's not what it's about. It's like superseding that baseline and setting a new bar. It's interesting. What would you say to somebody who's listening to this and they're like excited to go on the journey but also intimidated to be like yes I really really want to like set these standards for myself. How would you describe to them what type of life and mind like mental kind of like shifts are waiting for them on the other side of becoming someone who identifies as like a very fit person with high standards? Well, I think the uh Are you talking about somebody? >> Who might that be? Lori. >> Oh, no. I literally was talking to myself in all honesty. I was like, "Tell me more. Tell me what else is waiting." >> Uh at the end of the day, like I think as humans, we're pretty we're pretty simple. We want to look, feel, and perform better. Like look better naked, perform well, the things that we want to do from activity level >> and just feel good naturally. And so we have to provide a gift of contrast >> to them >> from a mindset standpoint. So most people actually don't even know what it's like to feel good. >> Um >> that's the issue. Oh, >> that's the issue cuz like you know a highpaced lifestyle, you're burning the candle at both ends. You think you're trucking along and moving at what's supposed to be quote unquote normal. I can't tell you how many guys that I work with that have like just chronic pain issues and stuff and they just like they assume that that's just part of the everyday life. Yeah. >> You know, until you give them some things that start to shift that. >> I grew up in a family like that. like they are all in pain all the time since I can remember. >> And that's usually the big motivating factor and and that's where it's like yes, we can we can do some of this like manual therapy and hands-on work and stuff to establish some pain relief because typically when people are feeling less pain, they're more motivated to keep going. >> And so it's about giving them those kind of pieces of lowhanging fruit and then starting to establish these more robust lifestyle changes later on that keep the that keep it going. So, I want you to guys to feel better week after week, month after month, knowing that the way I describe this to people, it's kind of like a like a squiggly line on a graph >> type of a thing. Like, you're gonna keep getting better, but there's going to be days where you're feeling down. >> Even when when recovering from injury, >> you're going to have days where actually you're moving really well, >> but your pain is higher. There could be other days where you don't have any pain yet, you feel like you're moving like dog [\h__\h] >> Yeah. >> And so, they're not necessarily like linear like that or correlated. And so the point is that that every day we're still getting better and we're trending upwards and all that. >> So to start to put a bow on this thing, first question, for somebody who touts themselves as a doctor of physical therapy and works with Olympians and Navy Seals, you have incredibly small arms. Does that ever show up as an insecurity? >> His arms are like tree trunks. So >> Okay. No, real question for the average person listening, right? They're they're an entrepreneur. They just want to be healthy and wealthy. What are three either habits, traits, or moves they could borrow from your Olympians and Navy Seals? Stay consistent is a big one. That's kind of like a mindset piece, though, too. >> But >> whatever whatever mode of action you're going to be taking, whatever type of workout that you're going to be doing, stay consistent with it. It's not about burning it down every single day. It's more about the the little um like the way you would eat a whale, one bite at a time. Mhm. >> And so it's little small efforts that build up over time that make for the great success. Uh I call them movement snacks. >> Yeah. >> So we have our workouts, right? But if you can implement little movement stacks, little mobility drills throughout the day that are like three to five minutes here, like when you're standing at your desk, something to do on the floor, those little bouts of a stimulus or a dose. Think about it as like a dose. Those are what add up over time. >> I thought you were saying movement >> I did say movement snacks. And then I heard snacks. I was like, "Oh, I'm hearing snacks." >> They could be snacks, too. Snacks are way better. >> Yeah, snacks are way better. >> Full full meal of the training session. But then, yes, the little snacks. >> This is why I'm still with you. >> All the snacks. >> Lori Matt said, "I have to have these consistent snacks." >> Okay, so first consistency. What's the second either trait, move, or habit? >> The next trait I think would be to be eating enough. >> Ah, >> eating enough. >> That's a good one. >> Well, because most most eat under. >> Yep. >> Absolutely. Absolutely. And so starting at a base level of um getting enough protein in is number one like that they regulate your energy. It regulates your energy. It let regulates how full you feel and also helps regulate the hormones as well. So if we can get enough protein in throughout the day and so for me I'm 215 pounds. I'm I'm eating around 215 to 240 grams of protein a day just as a base level to keep myself what I have now uh with these arms. Now, if I want to get bigger arms like you, then I'm gonna go ahead and have to bump that up a little bit. >> Of course. Maybe double it. >> Maybe three 400 grand to get to your level. Um, >> do you offer tickets to the gun show today to everybody else? >> They're sold out. Sold out. >> Now they're sold out. >> Fantastic. >> What's the third trait? >> The third trait. So, we got our got our movement snacks. We've got our eating enough. And then the big one is going to be the sleep component. >> So, but it's not about getting enough. It's all it's more so about your consistency and your timing. Once again, >> do you recommend someone get like a Whoop or something to track their sleep? >> Uh, Aura Ring, Whoop, >> whatever. The Garmin watch, they're they're all great. >> Some are better than other. Like the Our Ring has the best, I think, in the way of uh data collection and they have the less error rate on them just because the way they're designed, but it's really not more so about that. It's more so about trends over time. So, whatever data you're collecting, are you looking at this over a long run and then understanding how the patterns are playing out? That's a big piece. And like just to kind of hammer home the sleep stuff, it's more so it's more important that you like go to bed at a consistent time, get up a consistent time than it is about getting like a solid eight hours. Wow. Interesting. Like if you're going to go from 10 to 6 at night and there is an anabolic window in there, too. Yeah. >> We produce the most amount of most amount of hormones between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. >> Okay. So, if you're not getting to sleep within there, you're missing out on a really wonderful window. >> So, you want to be sleeping by 10. sleeping by 10 ideally. Ideally. Yes. Now, does that happen all the time? No. But like it's going to be a different profile. If you go to bed at midnight and get up at 8, yes, you're still getting eight hours, but you're also missing two hours of that window. >> This is interesting because those are three things that anyone could do. And they might hear that be like, "Ah, how big of a difference can those make? Consistency and eat more and sleep. Like, I was looking for the real hacks, bro." But that really is the real hacks right there. >> That that is the bedrock. it is >> of you being able to really live into a life of health and energy or not. >> So, kind of as a closing question, um I know that you don't work with many civilians, but you do a couple of them and you're willing to travel to them. You have kind of really cool monthly program. Um and I know it's really limited. I mean, I think you have room for two people maybe. >> And um I don't even know if you're taking two or not. I just know that when we've had conversations, you're like, "Oh, I think I could get up to this with my schedule." >> And you're willing to try like you fly to a certain royal family that we won't name overseas and work with them all the time. You fly to a family in London all the time. >> Uh so no matter where they're listening from, if somebody is a mega high performer and they want to work with you, how do they get a hold of you? What should they do? >> Uh the best way to get a hold of me is going to be through email. It's gonna be our best Matthew. >> Matthewinmovement.com. >> Say it again slower. >> Matthew two T's rootedinmovement.com. >> Rootedinmovement.com. >> R O O T E D I N M V M N T. >> Matthew with two T's at rootedinmovement.com. We'll also put a show notes. >> I thought I was being so freaking clever with that whole movement thing. Movement, vitality, mindset, nutrition, and training. And then I say and people like what? >> Yeah. Terrible. Terrible. We got to fix and Instagram or where they find >> Instagram's great. Uh rootitinmovement. >> Rooted in Movement. >> Yes. Lots of shirtless videos on there. >> Yeah. So So ladies, just go for the shirtless videos. >> I know. I just saw Kay looking up right now. >> They're going to be like breaking their knees and their arms. >> Oh, I broke my knee. I need you to come work on me. >> When's my flight? >> All right, guys. We have put everything in the show notes. So, thank you so much for coming on the show. >> Wonderful. And two.