Hey everybody, happy Monday morning for some of you afternoon. Um, this vlog is so important today because I know that we just got done with the holidays and with New Year's and you guys all have your goals and your resolutions and this is probably the first day where they start to feel really real or really tough or they just maybe feel far off. And I want to tell you my number one tip. This is important. Lean in. My number one tip on how to keep your goals and your New Year's resolutions and stick to this lifestyle that you want so bad cuz I want it too. It is forgiveness and self-love. So number one, forgiveness. You cannot get to your goals unless you start forgiving yourself. Because guess what is the biggest part of getting to your goals? setting resolutions and moving in to the person that you want to be. Failure and failure can be our best friend and it can be our guide and it is actually our best teacher. So every single time we fail, guess what it tells us? It tells us where we're getting red flags. So every single failure is a place where we need to start paying more attention to. So maybe we're not getting certain things done and we do some we hear ourselves say some really awful self-t talk to ourselves. We know that we need a mantra around that. We know that we need to clean that up and start talking to ourselves in a way um that we would talk to our best friend in a way that we would talk to a person that we love because love is a verb, you guys. It is a verb. So it has to be earned. You're not just going to wake up one day and say, "I love me." And feel great about yourself. You really have to start making those choices that love you back. So if you love yourself, you have to start treating yourself as though you do love yourself. So whatever you need, you have to start paying attention to what those needs are. What are you saying yes to that's really been pulling at your energy? Or maybe it's somebody who really pulls at your energy and you have nothing left for you because we wake up every single day with only a set amount of energy to finish everything that we need to do and to get to our goals. So, how are you going to spend that? If you want to get to your goals, you have to be realistic about the energy that you wake up with every single day. What can you do to get more of it? And once you get there, how do you want to spend it? Because so much of it has to go toward just our daily activities that you want to make sure you have some left for you to accomplish your goals as well. So, forgiveness, if I can tell you one thing today, this is just going to be a quick message. Start noticing where you're being hard on yourself, where you're having that all or nothing attitude, which stems from perfectionism. Pay attention because being mindful and looking at our dark places and looking at the places that we need to fix is the most beautiful thing that we can do. And so many people have trouble doing this because it's not fun. It's not fun to look at the things that you're not good at or the things that are negative or the things that you don't like about yourself. But if we don't take a good long look and forgive them and pour love on them, then we're never going to move forward. So today, I just want you to give yourself what you need. So that's the only thing that you have to focus on is just give yourself what you need to feel good. Is it more water? Is it more sleep? Is it a workout? Is it reading? Is it being around someone who just makes your heart feel so good that when you leave, you just feel so full? Go and do that for yourself today. And you'll notice that you will be able to get a lot closer to your goals a lot quicker um if you're forgiving yourself because you'll have less days in between where you're doing nothing and just kicking yourself. So um so much love to you guys. And I know that this year is absolutely magnetic and electric for all of us. And leave me your comments. I want to hear what you think. How do you feel? Um just test this out even for just today and I want to see how you feel. So, thank you guys so much for listening. You guys um really keep this going and I want to hear what you want to talk about next. So, leave me a comment. Okay, bye guys.