Some of our kind of like screw-ups, embarrassments at the time felt huge, traumatic, >> traumatic, you guys. And now we laugh at them, but we want to share them because these happen all the time. Idiot. How did I let this happen? Oh my god, is it me? Is it my team? Is it It's being a human. And it really is about your comeback rate. Like, what's next? What do I have to focus on? And we're back >> with another episode of He Said, She Said. >> Hey, before we get started, we got to let everyone know we are about to open cart in a couple of weeks from this recording and only going to take 30 new people into our mentor collective mastermind, which is a very small number. But here's why we only take a small number. This is the one that's the most supportive mastermind literally on the internet, right? And so what it means is not only are Lori and I teaching every two weeks, but there's a call every single week for you to learn from. And we have hired coaches that we pay for out of our money and a lot of them. And they are expertise coaches. So there's a sales coach, a marketing coach, uh life and health coach, there is a tech coach. I mean there's everything, right? So any problem you ever have in your business, you have a coach to go to and ask unlimited questions of courtesy of us paying for the coach. So you don't have to pay for the coach. So everything you ever need is is in this mastermind, but that's why we have to limit it to real small groups every time that we enroll. Now the mastermind as a group grows bigger and bigger, but we have to grow the number of coaches in accordance with the number of members. So bottom line, we're only going to take 30 people. Now, if you're listening, when Lori and I only take 30 people, that is not a lot. Like, that is a small that goes like zoom right away. So, here's your greatest chance of getting to get one of those chances. And first of all, this is the the mastermind that is for people earning between I'd say 25,000 and 500,000. 500,000 is where you got to start applying for the the elite level mastermind. Now, with that being said, here's how you get on the early access list. You have to go to chrisarter.me/weightlist. me/weightlist. That way you'll be the first to know when we open cart in a couple weeks. Again, that is chrisarter.me.me/weightlist. chrisarter.mme/weightlist. Put your name on the weight list. You'll get a heads up before anybody else so that you've got the highest chance of getting one of those 30 spots. And it is I mean go read all the testimonials on the sales page. It is awesome. Okay, so we are going to get into our podcast today and we were discussing what topics we should talk about and I had thought of sharing with you guys some of our kind of like screw-ups, embarrassments that at the time felt huge, traumatic, >> traumatic you guys. And now we laugh at them, but we want to share them because these happen all the time. And so it is literally about your comeback rate when you're an entrepreneur. And I think it's really important to know that I can't tell you the amount of people who are big names who have told me the most hilarious stories I can possibly tell you. So Chris, do you want to start off? >> Oh, yeah. >> With when we were >> I'll fall on the sword right away. Yes. I'll fall on the sword right away. Okay. So Lori and I used to release a course called Aligned. >> And this is what makes it really funny is the fact that it's called Aligned. Like oo so aligned, right? And it was a great course. part business, part life, just getting everything aligned to to be able to be successful. It's not available anymore, but this was like one of our flagship products for a minute. And we really put everything we had into creating the content and the lessons and the flow of the course and then high production value filming, you name it. Like, we went all in on this thing and this was going to be this big multiseigure product, blah blah blah, right? So, we do the recordings and if you guys have ever recorded something where it's kind of scripted because you have to script it to make sure that you're do, you know, doing all the teaching and and hitting all the lessons just right. Well, if you've ever recorded something where it's kind of scripted, it's almost tougher than if you're rifting from your brain. >> Yes, you tend to screw up a lot. And so, I am known for something that is called >> a >> lovingly a Chris. And a crit is basically when little things go wrong, I lose my >> There's a temper tantrum that looks like a toddler tantrum. >> And what's funny is when big things go wrong, I'm cool as a cucumber. Like, no problem. I got this. Oh, aliens are arriving. No problem. I got this. Oh, left my keys in the house when I got in the car. Right? So every time I would screw up on the script trying to teach the lessons in this course called Aligned, I would kind of like throw a baby Chris Fit. And then the more you do it, the bigger the Chris Fits get because you start to get >> you guys because we had sold the program to a bunch of people with a deadline. So we pre-sold the program which is totally normal, right? Like back in the day it wasn't as talked about but a lot of people were doing it. So a our audience like did not know we didn't have all of the content yet which is like I said normal but not to your audience. So we pre-sell have all of these people to deliver to and we had like three days to film this big long course and it was like the more you tried to nail this particular module the more it just kept going ary. >> Yeah. So a lot of pressure. So the Chris fits get bigger and bigger and bigger, but no problem because our editor, our video editor at the time, his name was Jesse. We're like, "Hey, Jesse, just make sure you take all these out, no problem." He's like, "Yeah, I got this." So sure enough, he does all the editing and takes out all the Chris Bits and, you know, makes this great course and we are so proud we release it. And this one was a a more high-end course and we released the first batch of courses to hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people. I forget, it was 700 people or something like that. Well, by the end of the first day, those overachievers that like went way ahead in the modules and dive in, dove in and spent the whole day doing the course, somewhere in like module four or five, whatever it was, I forget, Jesse had missed a Chris Fit. Let this sink in. Picture you're taking a course called Aligned and you just invested a couple thousand dollars in it and the material is really good and module one goes good, module two goes good, module three and you get to module four and I start teaching and all a sudden I screw up on some words and I go and it's still in the course called lined. So, there's a few overly ambitious people that, you know, cruised ahead. And so, by the end of the first day, we had three, four, five emails. They're like, um, I'm not sure if you guys know this, but Chris is freaking the f out in module 4. You guys might want to do something about it. >> Some people who had, thank god it was people who they had like been in our world for a long time, so they like thought it was funny, but we did not. So, we were dying. >> So, we had to quickly take the course offline. Uh, and people are going in and logging in like, "Wait, where'd the course go?" We had to edit it out, re-upload it. Like, the whole thing was a mess. Now, what was my lesson from that? Number one, don't throw bits. Number two, no matter how hard you try, and no matter how good your team is, you're going to make mistakes. >> And you have to be able to have a sense of humor when you do, you have to let the wave of embarrassment and anger just kind of flow through you. You can't overreact. You just have to fix it right away in the moment, the best that you can. Yeah. And I mean, your whole body kind of takes over and it feels like a trauma response truly. And I remember like it was like a week straight where you were sick to your stomach. Just like terrible. >> We don't know who saw it. We don't know what people are like. >> Yeah. How many people saw it and didn't email? >> I don't know. And this was a little bit of a time before like people were outwardly being themselves like really coming out with their personalities. And so it was like, you know, Chris online and then Chris throwing a fit. So it was like just this >> two different personalities. >> Oh my god. You know what it reminds me of? It reminds me of that quote. Um, sooner or later you're going to get caught being yourself, so you might as well be yourself now. >> Well, I'm as to do nothing but crits in public. >> That's why that's why the audacity challenge is good for me. I'm like, I just can say whatever I want. And it feels better to be caught being myself so that I'm not caught being myself. >> Well, little miss be yourself. What is one of your big fups that happen in business? >> I have so many and I actually have one that I will never share. It was so bad. Like eventually, you know which one, but um >> like I can't even I can't even talk about it. Um like literally it's bad. >> But you know, obviously I have a podcast, you're listening to it. >> I was interviewing someone I was so excited about. I got to finally um interview uh >> Boss Babe. Boss Babe, the founders of Boss Babe when it was Natalie and Danielle of Boss Babe. And Natalie is my business partner now. And I am interviewing her. >> I got clarified. But you didn't know him very well back then. >> No, I did not just like hardly at all. I had met her once like hung out with her a couple times like but you know at different dinner things. >> Yeah. >> And you guys have to understand they've always been like partners. Like they're always together. Like it's Natalie and Danielle. So my brain just pictures both of them together all the time. So, while I'm interviewing, I have a realization at the end of my podcast that I have been calling her by the wrong name the entire podcast and she didn't tell me. >> You were calling Natalie Danielle the whole podcast >> and she never spoke up. >> No. >> Oh my god. >> And I was like, did I just call you that like through the whole thing? And she was like, yeah, it's fine because we're partners and it happens all the time. I was like, >> "That doesn't happen all the time." I was like, "I feel like such an asshole." >> I feel like I need to frame this better. I want you guys to picture like if you have a podcast, your biggest get, you're like so excited to to meet this person. You're so excited to get to know these people and you're like, "Oh my god, I can't believe they're going to be on my podcast. This is going to be great. I'm going to get all sorts of downloads and you know, this is really going to help the show." And you're all excited and you prepare all your questions. You put a lot of effort into it and then you spend an hour calling them the wrong effing name. It was >> that is hard to live down. >> A nightmare. And then I had to tell my editors, "Oh, you know, could you go try to edit out whenever I would say the wrong name because I called her the wrong >> supposed to be just like silence?" Like, so tell me, >> Hank, what was the time that you blah blah blah? >> I'm just like dying. I was like, what was she thinking the whole time while I was asking her questions? Like, you >> Babe, I've got one more because we're on the topic of podcast and asking editors to edit things out. >> Oh I know this. Here's another major blooper mistake as well. And guys, we're sharing this because it's going to happen. So, we want to normalize the mistakes and and then we're going to share like what you do when they happen. But, you know, when I released my podcast a thousand and some episodes ago, I was brand new and everyone's brand new at some point to something. Now, I despite owning a tech company today, am not very technologically inclined. It's just never been my thing. And so, we had this great big podcast studio set up at our home in Santa Monica and had this great big mixing board. I was new to podcasting. I said, "Hey, what do I do if I have to like cough or something and my brother who had set it all up said, "Oh, no problem. This button here, you press this and this right here, you just pull this down and you can talk whatever you want, say whatever you want, and no one's going to hear. The person on the other end is not going to hear." So, I'm like, "Okay, good." Well, when you I don't know if you guys know this or not, when you launch a podcast, the best practice is to record eight incredible episodes before you launch so that you can launch with four episodes published right away for people to listen to and fast follows immediately after that. It's one of the ways to boost the numbers of downloads and get on the new and noteworthy and all that stuff. >> I'm like, your strongest guest, >> your strongest guest. So, I arranged the strongest guests that I could get my hands on for my first eight episodes. That means I'm interviewing these people that I look up to, brand new interviewer, right? So, I you prepare all the questions. I put my all into this. It's going to be great. And unfortunately, when I schedule them to do the eight interviews, I had gotten a cold and like not a little cold, like a big cold. And so, I'm like, "Okay, no big deal. If I have to cough or if I clear my throat or something, I'm just going to pull this little sound thing down and push it back up and no one will ever know." So through the first maybe six of eight episodes, I would be interviewing them and all a sudden I'd have to clear my throat and so I'd pull the little sound thing down. I'd go and then push it back up and I think I'm in a clear because good news, the person on the other end isn't hearing me. So they're not reacting because I'm pulling the sound to them down but not on the recording because you're recording two different sounds and putting them together on a podcast or you do an interview. So, I look at them on Zoom. They're not reacting. I'm like, "Woohoo! This is working." And I clear my throat and I clear my throat and I clear my over like hacking up a lung. Disgusting sounds, you guys. >> While they're talking. >> And so, I get through this. I'm like, "Yeah, babe. I'm so proud. I had a cold. It didn't stop me. I got through this. Every time I clear my throat, I just muted it." So, we ship off the eight episodes to our podcast producers. I'm all proud of them. And a couple days later, they send back and they're like, "Are you joking?" like what what did you do? Like is this for this is it? I'm like what are you talking about? They're like in every single episode eight nine 10 15 times you go while the other person is answering like what are we supposed to do? >> One of the most stressful things about moving into a new home is all the little details you don't think about at first like window treatments. In our last home I used blinds.com for our blinds and our curtains and it was honestly such a seamless experience. They sent me samples super fast. They helped me choose what would look best. And the turnaround time was fast. Thank god because our windows weren't covered. Everything was easy, beautiful, and done without the headache that I expected. That's why I'm so excited to share blinds.com with you because they've truly reinvented the way we shop for custom window treatments. So maybe you even just want to upgrade what you have right now. There's no more waiting around all day for an in-home designer just to get an overpriced quote. So, with blinds.com, you can shop 100% online or get expert advice through virtual design consultations, all on your schedule. Whether you know exactly what you want or you need help deciding, blinds.com makes it simple. You can do it yourself or you can let their pros handle everything from measure to install. Either way, you'll have experts by your side every step. And you'll get the same designer look that you see in a showroom without the showroom prices. Plus, they've got so much more than blinds. Think bamboo shades, shutters, even outdoor patio shades. And every order is backed by their 100% satisfaction guarantee with 29 years in business and over 25 million windows covered. They're the number one online retailer for a reason. Right now, Blinds.com is giving our listeners an exclusive $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout. Limited time offer. Rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with your customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM. Reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 247. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every single time. Get started for free today or use code happy to save 50% on starter and business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.comhappy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura >> and I was devastated. Devastated. Now I >> you were devastated. >> You know your first trying to make your your pride with Christ. >> You were so hard to deal with. I was like this is a disaster for my life. But you know, you want to make the best first impression possible. I'm like, I can't go back to these eight big names and ask them to re-record. Not going to happen. So, I as the editors, I'm like, fix it. I don't care how you fix it. I don't care if the sound just goes mute. I don't care if you splice it out. So, if you go back and listen to my first eight, six or eight episodes, you can, if you listen closely, you can hear where the person's talking and then maybe the words don't match up because they had to splice out, you know, 3 seconds or where the person's talking, but it just kind of goes mute. You can go back, you can find the edits where they had to clear out my throat clearing as best as they could. God and done was better than perfect. >> What I learned from that one, >> sometimes you just have to move forward and you don't have perfect options. And I think in business, this is where people go wrong. They're like, "Oh, well, what is my good option and my bad option? I'm going to choose my good option." And that's not how business goes a lot of times. It's I kind of have two not very good options, but you have to move forward with the less bad option. Does that make sense? And that's what I had to do to launch my podcast. And you you still survive. We're sharing these stories because you have to understand you still survive. >> But you can't survive if you don't have people to go to that will kick you back in the game, that will tell you how to fix it, that will say, "Hey, don't worry. I made this mistake once before. here's what I did. Don't worry, I made this mistake once before and I survived it. I think that's the most important thing is you got to have peers >> and you have to have mentors that say, "Don't worry, I've done something like that before and I survived it. You're going to be okay, too." >> Yeah. That's been my biggest learning from hanging out with entrepreneurs, especially like big people who I look up to, is that they share all of that and it makes me feel so much better. And when you feel alone in it, you're like, "I'm such an idiot. How did I let this happen? Oh my god, is it me? Is it my team? Is it It's being a human. And it really is about your comeback rate. Like how fast can you come back from your failures? The best athletes, they say they don't have a memory. Like they they don't remember the bad plays. And while we can laugh at it now, truly when things happen like that, I'm like my my mantra is, well, what's next? >> Yep. >> Well, what's next? Because I can't sit here. It's making me feel sick and there's nothing I can do. If there's nothing more I can do about it, then like what's next? What do I have to focus on? >> And this is why we put together the mentor collective masterminds because these mistakes tend to happen, you know, throughout your entire career, but so much more so when you're just getting started, when you're making your first 100 grand, 200 grand, three, four, 500 grand, right? Because you're kind of newer at things. And so, this is why we have the life coaches in there for you to turn to, life and business coaches. This is why we have the marketing coach to turn to when you screw up your marketing. This is why we have the sales coach to turn to when you screw up your sales. This is why we have the tech coach to turn to when you screw up on your tech, right? We have a coach for every single business discipline that you could possibly need. Heck, we even have an attorney, a small business attorney, a legal coach in there, so that when you get yourself in legal little mishaps, you know, you got someone to turn to in there as well. And that's why we put together mentor collectives because not everyone has the resources or the network that we had when we were getting started. And this gives you mentors, right, Lori and I, and the coaches to turn to. And it gives you peers, people that are kind of at the same place as you, maybe a step or two ahead to be able to say, "Don't worry, I did that, too." Or, "Don't worry, I know how to fix this." Or, "Don't worry, this happened to me the other day." And people that understand your struggle. >> It is the best. Like, I wish I would have had this and we created what we wish we had. >> And it's it's like our favorite calls to do. They're so fun. >> Oh god, we get off them and we are on a high. So, listen. If you guys want a live call where your business questions are answered every single week, if you want coaches sharing their expertise with you on the in between weeks, if you want ondemand coaching from every type of business coach you could want, complimentary once you're in the program, and so much more. Matter of fact, here's the coolest new thing we're adding to it. Weekly accountability coaches. somebody to check in on you and say, "Hey, last week you said you were going to do X, Y, and Z. Did you do it? Oh, you didn't. Why not? What's your commitment this week? Oh, maybe you need to meet this person. Maybe I need to point you that direction." You know, when people shift from like a job to entrepreneurship, >> the biggest thing they struggle with is holding themselves accountable. >> I know they don't have a boss anymore. >> Well, we fixed that with this program, but there's only going to be spot for about 30 of you. So, go to right now that this episode's done. I'm not kidding. Get your tail on that wait list. It's going to be your only shot to get a spot. Go to chrisarter.meweightlist. Again, that is chrisarter.meweightlist and that'll get you on the weight list. >> We're so grateful for you guys and we will see you next week. Bye everyone.