Hey everybody, Chris and Lorie Harter and we just wanted to take a quick minute to talk about the Rise Up leadership retreat that our team is putting on for all of you. Now, it's a huge deal because this is not like any other Isogenics event. It is by our team for our team from Hillary and Justin, the original founders of our team, all the way down. But here's the best part. The training is going to be done by all of you who are fivestar and above along with Jim and Kathy Coover and Eric and Travis and some other people as well. But imagine being trained by the people who are in the trenches that understand exactly what the challenges in leadership are right now, teaching you their best methods of handling it. And on top of that, the team bonding events and the camaraderie that you are going to be able to form with other teammates that you don't even know right now, but you're going to be able to partner up with going forward. This is pure leadership and no other fluff. I am so excited because if you guys don't know uh about our stories at all, Chris and I literally uh owe so much to events uh because it's the place where you are one-on-one bellyto belly with your mentors and where you're really trying on um exactly that person that you need to be or desire to be um in order to get to where you want to go. So truly, you're not just learning leadership skills, you're trying them out while you're there. So I think that's why events are so incredibly effective is you're not only learning, you're trying it on, you're connecting with the people. You're able to ask them directly the questions. You'll be learning and hearing exactly what everybody's doing right now. What are the best techniques, how to speak it, you guys, it's this is absolutely going to be mind-blowing from everything that we've heard that everyone is preparing for you. And I'm I feel I feel so blessed and honored to be there because it is going to be the most amazing curriculum for you guys. And I feel so excited to be able to give you guys a workout and just get you in the right frame of mind for everything that you're going to be learning. So, um we're just going to have fun because this is fun. And guys, you are invited too. So, there's going to be a separate guys training from the women. soon as you get there, we're going to separate everybody and make sure that each gender is getting exactly what they need to get to go home full speed ahead in this training. So, remember, you have until June 12th to qualify. Qualifying means hitting two star golden circle or above. If you've already hit it, you're already in June 12th to qualify. The event is in July. Can't wait to see you guys there. You guys don't miss this. This will be gamechanging for your business. do anything that you can to make sure you are there. Bye-bye. Bye, guys. See you.