What are some of the tipping points that you feel like really propelled the business? >> The one thing I would say is maybe like Taylor Swift, she had worn his jersey only with thigh high boots and this big necklace of ours. That was a pretty big moment and it had some, but nothing lasts. I don't think there's ever one big moment that like makes a brand. I feel like that's so empowering to know and I've heard that from so many people because I think they see like, oh well, here's why they got successful. I'm like, not really. Cuz even though they got that like moment, it's not sustainable. >> Melinda, welcome to the podcast. Thank you for coming on. >> I'm so happy to be here. I'm such a huge fan of yours and so thank you for having me. >> Oh my gosh. Well, I'm glad that was recorded. Um, so I got to hear that. I'm very very excited to be here with you. Um, not only because I love your work, but you know those women who you can actually tell like you can feel their energy through their social media and just how they show up. That is literally you. I feel like you feel so authentic, welcoming, warm, motivating, like really down to earth. And I feel like you do a really good job of that coming across. And I'm also using my right hand so you can see my jewelry in my >> I know. I see that. Very good stack. You look such a good stacker. Well, thank you. Those are all very huge compliments. And um you know, I'm just a girl who loves to make great jewelry and to hopefully it makes people feel great. >> Oh my gosh. Well, I can't wait. I I really can't wait to dig into this conversation because number one, I feel like I know so many women who would like it's their dream to have a jewelry line. But it truly isn't it like we're like I start a clothing line or like a jewelry line but I also know because I have interviewed a few jewelry founders that there's a lot of you know people in the market. Obviously there's a ton of different jewelry companies. There's huge challenges around standing out, around differentiating, around all of the things that come with manufacturing and all, you know, having all of the money that goes into having uh to place big orders, not knowing what's going to work, what isn't going to work. There's just so many things and uh you know, you have a huge team now. So, I want to know I I kind of want to start with a little bit of the origin story because I do know that you have been designing jewelry since you were a young girl, like eight years old. Yeah. Yeah. >> And then you sold jewelry as well in a Starbucks. >> Correct. >> Correct. I just want to hear the I want to hear a little bit about how this love of jewelry started. >> Yeah. Um I did start when I was very young. I do feel very lucky that um I found something that I was obsessed with. And I think as a parent and I'm sure you have a lot of moms and your uh that are your followers, you know, it's the most important thing is to find what your kids are obsessed with and and that are good at. like hopefully they're good at it too. Um so yeah, started at a ve very young age. Um moved to New York because I wanted to be inspired by a big city because I grew up in a small town and I didn't feel like I had anybody that was like a creative that felt like me. And so I did grow up Washington. >> Okay. >> And so I followed my instincts where everyone was going to college. I was like I need to go and I we didn't have a lot of money to go see, you know, to go vacation and experience the world. So, I was like, I'm going to go to New York City and I'm going to be a nanny. And so, I did that. Um, quickly realized I couldn't afford to not live with my employer because I wanted to like nanny forever. >> So, I moved back home, went to school a little bit, all while making jewelry. It was just it's just always my like, you know, I feel like kids now go to their phones or their iPads when they're bored. Like, I went to like handcrafting just anything I could get my hands on. Um, anyhow, I moved to Los Angeles after that. Packed up my bags. I think I saved like 1,500 somewhere around there. 1,500 $2,500. H, bought like a little crappy car and drove down to LA. Didn't know anybody. Didn't have any money. Didn't have a college degree, didn't have a job. So, it was like I just got to go there. I was like, I just got to go out and do. So, you know, I had like a myriad of jobs to pay my bills. But, um, I would sit at Starbucks because they were all popping up. And as an entre entrepreneur, you have to be very resourceful and scrappy and you know the the Starbucks like everyone was going to Starbucks. I'm like, "Okay, that's a great way to get in front of people." So I sat where people would get their drinks and I would sit and make stuff. I would spread my whole, you know, stuff out and people would come and get their drink and they'd eventually look down. I say, "Oh, are you a jewelry designer?" And I'd say, "Yes." And I totally felt like I had imposter syndrome by saying that. But I really was in retrospect, like looking back. and people would start buying stuff from my table. Um, so that was just like there's a there's such a series of following my instincts even though it was like not the norm. Like it was not the norm to go to college. It was not the or to not go to college. It was not the norm to move to, you know, New York City and be a nanny and live in their house and where everyone else was like finishing their careers and getting a job. and um it wasn't the norm to go sit at a coffee shop and spread all my stuff out, you know, and hand make stuff and sell it from there. So, there's been such a when I looked back because we're celebrating our 20 years, I really look back to see like what were some of the key takeaways of like becoming successful. And one is truly never giving up because it really took me many many many many years in order to be profitable. Two, to find something that you love. And then three is just to follow your instincts even though they might seem like completely outside the box and and might be embarrassing, right? Like I wasn't able to go and tell people when I came home from Christmas break or spring break like, "Oh, I'm going to college. Oh, I'm in this sority." I was like, "Oh, I'm living in Los Angeles like making jewelry in a caf in a cafe." You know, and people would snicker and just be like, "Oh, sure you're a jewelry designer." Because everyone else is too. But um you know I think also like if you have like an ego >> about what people think >> um you're in trouble. >> But anyhow that's my little bit of start of my story. And so they you know it eventually led to I had a big group of amazing women that followed me. I would have little parties. You know I was very grassroots. I grew very slowly because I didn't have any institutional money. So I would grow on retained earnings. Um, and then, um, you know, women would follow me and, um, I'd have little parties at my place and then I would shle my stuff around town and try to get into stores and, you know, etc., etc. And, you know, that was like sort of the beginning of the >> Yeah. And then I went game shows to have seed money to not have to work at other jobs and just focus on jewelry. So, I went, again, that was like resourceful. People like, "That's so weird." And I'm like, why? There's a million. >> When did you get that idea? I mean, obviously living in LA, it's like just such a different >> Yeah. It's just like you thought I'd be resourceful about what's in your backyard. Like I'm like, I'm in LA. I'm in the capital of the world. That's where I was like I hunted down stylists, you know. Um even though I was absolutely nobody, you know, I would go and knock on their doors. I would like bring them flowers and jewelry and, you know, most of them didn't really use my stuff. And then eventually some people did. And then, you know, my my other instinct was, okay, now that I know a few stylists, like, I need to find a publicist. >> And so, I found a publicist, even though I really couldn't afford it. It was so stressful. And yeah, my other instinct was my publicist that was working. Who? Can I show them? My publicist is right here. There's Marggo. Hi. Love Marggo Seagull PR. So, my other instinct was when I saw my publicist, she How old were you? >> 22. >> She was 22. And I walked in and again, like I couldn't even afford to be at this publicity firm. I walked in and I saw her how she was handling everyone and everything and the stylist and on the phone. And I think I had been with the firm for how long? Like two months or something, maybe even that. And just this instinct overcame me and I was like, "You have to quit here and start your own firm and I'm going to come with you and be your first client." And she's like, "What are you talking about? I just got this job and I'm 22." And I'm like, "We got to make that happen." Cut to She's one of the biggest, if not the biggest jewelry publicists in the country. She only does jewelry and she's a huge business. And you know, I was her first client and we've been together for how long? >> 17 years. But like my husband and I sat with her. We were like, "Okay, let's think about a business plan for you and let's see what your expenses are." And we like But that was another like instinct that I had that felt like really crazy >> and totally inappropriate, >> but I like saw how she was working and I was just like this girl is like running the show. So >> anyhow, this the following your instincts even though they might be, you know, embarrassing or feel strange or out of the box was like a really key point to like a series of like successes that I've had. >> Had you always like how did you grow up? Did you grow up seeing like your mom or your parents or somebody do that or was that just something that innately in you you're like >> No, I think it was the opposite. I think you know as a parent you can parent and and tell show them things that you want them to do and then also like you know they learn from things that we don't do either. So you know my dad had a job and he liked it. It wasn't like super exciting and same with my mom and she really liked it but that didn't feel right to me. I was like oh that I want to be so excited about what I do that I'm I'm actually going to never do that. And like I'm actually gonna never have jobs that I don't that don't totally resonate with me. I mean, I would quit jobs that I didn't even have money to pay rent, which was stupid, but like that's how like passionate I was about like doing something I really love. >> If you had to start over right now, would you take that same path? Do you think you'd go totally grassroots? Would you do the stylist thing? Would you What would that look like for you? Yeah, I mean even today, you know, we're super scrappy. I mean, we're a pretty decentsized company with, you know, resources and money to do things, but we still are scrappy. We're still like, how do we use AI and be >> as scrappy as we can? Like, where can we save money to to help the bottom line and to grow the top line? Like, we're Yeah, we still operate like that. We don't throw cash around because I'd rather, you know, pay my employees more or, you know, pay us more. And yeah, we're still like very scrappy. And >> it's fun to feel like you're like, "Oh, I got this deal done for, you know, I felt good about that deal, you know, how we how we negotiated." But yeah, >> what looking back, what would you say if you when you've really sat and thought about because I know you've probably gotten a question like this hundreds, thousands of times, but like if you had to look back and say, "Oh, these were three to four really big needle movers." Would you say it was the getting scrappy and just like being out with the people and doing the events and then getting with the stylist? What are some of the like the tipping points that you feel like really propelled the business? >> You know, it's interesting because I speak at a lot of colleges and business schools and I do get this question a lot from students. And for me, I I always think that people are trying to figure out what that brass ring is. And I don't think there's ever that brass ring. It's like >> like thousands of little things. >> It's the thousands of little paper cuts. Yes, it's that. It's not It's never The one thing I would say is maybe like when Taylor Swift I mean that was just like a lightning in a bottle thing where she was on the Aerys tour. She was the biggest I mean she still is. She was dating you know Travis Kelsey. She had just come out that they were dating and everyone was like you can't you couldn't open a book without you know or a door without hearing the word Taylor Swift. And she wore his jersey. It was AI think it was like the first time that she had gone to like one of his games and she had worn his jersey only with thigh high boots and this big necklace of ours. >> I mean that was a pretty big moment and it had some but nothing really la like nothing lasts like you have those moments and it goes right back down to like it it it normalizes like there's nothing that you can do. I'm still think that my business could demand could be done tomorrow. That's how I work. >> I never am looking >> back and saying, you know, oh, we did such a great job. I'm constantly, how do we get better at manufacturing? How do we get better at customer service? How do we get better at delivering the best best quality fashion jewelry of anyone in the world and with an amazing price? Like, we're constantly, how do we get better at production? How do we get better at content? And my team has that same drive. And I only want to work with people like that or how do we get better at AI? Yeah. For me, it's never it's never like, oh, these are the big moments. I don't want to rely on any anybody else's or any of those moments. I want like I want growth with stability. I want growth with stability. So, so then you can just, you know, what's coming down the pipeline. who know okay we need to acquire this many customers and then have this much customer retention and how does that work together and what's the conversion rate and then that equals this like you know get better at data and how to how to read data and um you know yeah I don't I don't think there's ever with any company now like ever one big moment that like makes a brand >> it's actually so I feel like that's so empowering to know and I've heard that from so many people because I think they see like, oh well, here's why they, you know, got successful. I'm like, not really because even though they got that like moment, hopefully they capitalized on it and really used it and keep reusing it, but at the same time, it's not going to it's not going to be sustainable. Yeah. >> Yeah. It's great. It's great. Like even, you know, celebrity hits like >> don't even don't have that power anymore. I think Taylor Swift is the only thing that did ever have that like a massive thing. But it's all it's all like branding, right? Like brand I always talk about brand equity is so important that people understand who you are as a brand, not just like selling product. Um and that's a really hard thing to do. Like very few companies really understand what brand equity is. And um yeah, it's a hard thing to do. So, we're constantly trying to figure out like, okay, how do we convey like who we are to, you know, our consumers. >> What do you Well, that I I love talking about brand. I love learning about how people think of brand. Do you have kind of a breakdown of what you how you view brand equity and what you think is some of the most important pieces for people who are listening to look at their brand and think about? It's like if you look at some of the great brands like you think about Ralph Lauren like what's Ralph what's the what is that brand equity like people think about Ralph Lauren and they think of um preppy they think of the Hamptons they think of a polo match they think of like elevated layered so like that's what they think of when you know they think of like Ralph Lauren like it's it's a feeling that people get about when they think about your brand or when they think about you know Nike is like it's it's an athlete, it's a person that's pushing themselves, it's like not they were really just like a sneaker and they became this whole ethos of like just do it. Um, you know, and making like everyday people into athletes. >> So, you know, you think about like some of those really great great brands. Um, and it's just a feeling that you get and you understand like who they are. >> So, with your brand, you it feels like you have to be like endlessly creative. Like I know that you're a creative, so it probably comes fairly easily, but I also know that can kind of, you know, come to a place where you're like, I'm kind of just stuck. I don't even know what to do next or where this brand should go. What have you done throughout the years? It's been 20 20 years. >> Yeah. >> What have you done throughout the years to like reinvent, stay within the brand, but also create just everything that you have continued to create? Are there exercises that you guys do? like how do you stay fresh and creative? >> You know, I do think that I'm just good at that. Like we're all good at something and I do think it just it does come fairly natural to to me designing. Um I think the creativity part that can be, you know, like challenging is like is now we're like just as much a production studio as we are a jewelry company. Um, and so just the content um, in which people like absorb of like what do they want to see? How do we still stay true to our brand? You know, we don't want to be an entertainment company, but we we still want to, you know, we want to have fun with our content because we're very much about like layering and jewelry should be fun. So, our content should be fun. So, um yeah, it's super important to be creative in the in the um content space, but I definitely have an amazing production team >> um in that and so I'm lucky. Um but you know, it's not going to sound sexy or creative, but >> I did mention like data. So, it is so so so data driven in our company about how we curate collections like what does the customer want? Like how do we how do we hone in on like if a customer bought the Julian with a tennis necklace like what are the some silhouettes that she might wear? How do we narrow in on like what's that setting? So we're like crazy uh advanced in the like AI space data and how we analyze it. >> That is so interesting. How is how has marketing changed from the beginning until now? And what would you say to somebody who I I actually know quite a few people who either want to start a jewelry line or have one and I think marketing is always their biggest like where do they go? Where have you found kind of like where have you carved out where your best marketing avenues are now compared to what they were >> like in just creatively or like in paid ads >> like as in even in what are the the platforms are you like that do better for you guys or have you carved out your is it you know Instagram is it Tik Tok are you meta ads are you Google like what are some of the ways that >> I think with that I think people need to like look at who their customer is and like where they're purchasing and run, you know, do like test things out. Test out Tik Tok, test out different creatives, like how are you how are you looking at your RO, you know, your ROI on what you're spending. Um, again, it's like super super detailed data and you really need to be or have someone on your team. I mean, it's definitely someone on my team. I have several several people that do that, but you have to look at where your dollars are spent and what's coming back and how you analyze it. Are you do you run your business on a blended rorowaz? Like there's there's so many different ways to do it. But yeah, I think just testing out different creatives in in in different platforms is important and looking at the data to see, you know, what that is, what's working and what's not. And then you analyzed your creative and you're like, okay, this worked, but this doesn't. When do people click out of an ad? Like, is it two seconds? Do we need a hook? You know, there's so many different so many different variables that you need to like piece together the the puzzle. Was in the beginning, was it like or growing out your team because obviously you have a really big team who does all of these different things as well. >> Were you challenged putting together a team or was that also something that was natural to you or did you have to go really learn how to um did you have to learn a lot about leadership? Yeah, I'm still learning about leadership. >> Same every hard. Leadership is hard. It definitely is hard. Um it's 20 years in. I finally have a a really amazing team that we all have our place and we work together really well. But I ran the business up until 2021. Um and then I realized like I really don't want to be a CEO. So I was the CEO. I was the head creative person. But, you know, when you have when you have a smaller company, you have to have you have to wear a bunch of different hats. Um, and so I was lucky enough to find a really incredible CEO that runs my company, and I stepped down as CEO. Um, and I think I took the business to about 20 million when I stepped down, but I was like really excited to bring somebody in that had a lot of experience and understood the brand. I mean, he is incredible. like I I really pinch myself every day that I have somebody um like my CEO running my business and he's just an incredible leader and you know you have a good leadership where people follow you. >> So yeah, I feel very lucky. But um it is it is hard I think some to to build a a team and there's different dynamics and I think to be very clear about what each role does and have very clear KPIs and then you have um a culture right so like you can have one person that totally sets off the culture and so that's hard to balance um especially in the creative space like it's not a black and white thing it's like I really love this somebody else might not love it there's a lot of no in I I get no all the time from you know my CEO or somebody that's like okay that that earring is not going to sell because this is why and let me show you and I'm like okay totally fine so you know I think like if you you know can check your ego at the door with stuff like that especially in creative like it's it's important to do that and be collaborative but yeah I feel very very lucky to to have somebody running at the very very top running my in a really amazing way. >> When you're growing a company, you know that you need good people around you in order to get to the next level. And right now, there's a talented person out there who could take your company to the place that you want. But the question is, do you want to just hope that they see your job post before your competitors, or do you want to match with them using Indeed sponsored jobs? If I had to hire someone for the show tomorrow, I wouldn't mess around with candidates who look decent on paper but don't even get what I do. I'd want somebody who already has worked in podcasting and editing and software and understands workflow and can jump in and not only do the job well, but help take us to where we want to go. That's why I use Indeed sponsored jobs. They help you find people who actually fit what you're looking for. Stop struggling to get your job post even seen on other sites. With sponsored jobs, your post is boosted to reach quality candidates, the kind of people who can help your business thrive and drive the results that you need. And the best part is you only pay for results. In fact, sponsored jobs posted directly on Indeed are 95% more likely to report a hire than non-sponsored jobs. So if you're hiring, Indeed is all you need. And I like those stats. So spend less time searching and more time actually interviewing candidates who check all your boxes. Less stress, less time, more results now with Indeed sponsored jobs. And listeners of this show will get a $75 sponsored job credit to help get your job the premium status it deserves at indeed.com/mpodcast. Just go to indeed.com/mpodcast right now and support our show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed.commpodcast. Terms and conditions apply. Hiring. Do it the right way with Indeed. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 247. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code happy50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com/happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you become the leader. That idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify, 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household name to first-time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap. And I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Setup is fast with Shopify's built-in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So, marketing is built in, too. You can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So, as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets, and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happhappy. Go to shopify.com/happy. That's shopify.com/happy. Here your first cha-ching this new year with Shopify by your side. >> When did you know that you were like I I want to step down. This is not like I I think some do a better job. >> It was just getting big. It was just getting bigger. And I was like, okay, I can take it so far. >> Yeah. But I knew that that CEO role had to move into only CEO and I I'm like a creative too. So, and I love jewelry. I love the brand partnerships. I love doing the content. I love meeting the people. And I'm, you know, >> the biggest ambassador for the brand. Um, I love doing podcasts. I love speaking on panels. So, I knew it was getting too big for me to to do both, too. >> Yeah. Totally. >> Yeah. It like takes you out of your zone of genius and you're like, "Okay, I it's only a bottleneck." >> Yeah. I only have Exactly. I only have so much capacity for it and I was constantly gravitating towards the the role that I'm doing now and like putting the other stuff off and I knew I needed somebody that could really understand it and really grow it. And when Brian came on, he like had in this amazing like vision for the brand and we to I was like that's absolutely it and he totally got it. So, we were 100% aligned on where we're going, how we want to do it. >> Oh my god, that's a dream. I know some people cycle through a lot of CEOs before >> I'm so happy for I'm so happy for almost >> five years now. Yeah, it's been >> Oh my god, >> he's consulting me. He was a a was a consultant for me before he came on. >> Um and so yeah, so he's been with me Yeah. five years, I guess. >> Oh my god, that's awesome. >> Yeah. Okay. So, your mission is to reveal the fun side of fashion. >> Yes. >> Explain to me why that is why that is so important. >> I think the the fun side of fashion for me is just that. It's like I think fashion typically has been very serious and you can't sit with us and you know, you have to have a sour look on your face and that's just not who I am. And I I happen to think that fashion should be very fun. I think layering jewelry should be very fun. And I don't think that you need to spend $25,000 on a diamond tennis necklace to get that look or like a big pair of diamond hoops. I'm not spending $10,000 on a big pair of diamond hoops. And but like I want them to look like that. I want to look real. I want my diamonds to look real. I want them to feel real and I want to have fun with it. So it's just that. It's it's Yeah, it's just that. It's like having fun and not taking things too seriously. Except for we take our quality insanely seriously. That's what we're very serious about. >> No, it's it's incredible quality. I'm obsessed with it. And I feel this I I have like the same motto about fashion because I just everything changes so fast too that you got to play with it. Like you got to play you got to figure out who you are that year. What do you love? What are you loving? >> Exactly. Exactly. Especially jewelry. Like I don't want to invest a ton to the point where because I like different things. I like wearing a bunch of different things. And if you're a stacker, let me tell you how fast that adds up. >> Oh, so fast. So fast. I always tell people if you want to wear something every single day and you do not want to take it off, then buy solid gold or sterling. However, like solid gold right gold right now is >> insanely it's never been higher. So it's very it's a lot. It's a big investment. So, I know for me, like even when I buy like a super expensive purse or a super expensive blazer, I'm like I get I get bored of it after a little bit. And so, >> you put so much money into it. So, it's very it becomes very serious. >> So, um yeah, that's it. It's just like it should be fun. You should layer it. You shouldn't shouldn't be stressful, but I I still want it to look super expensive. So that's where we really strive and like I love putting our CZs right next to a diamond and my friends are like, "Why am I ever buying a diamond again? This is crazy. It looks exactly." >> No, I bought um for Christmas. It was one of your tennis bracelets with like the little emerald like the in it. >> This one >> you have it on. Yes. I love I got more compliments on that. >> And it looks like an emerald. Oh, people absolutely thought that was they're like, "Oh, did Chris get you this great?" >> I got me a great >> Exactly. Exactly. >> Um, okay. For you, what were what were just give me a couple of the moments during growing this company that you were like, "What the hell am I doing?" Or like, "How is this happening?" Did you ever have moments that you just didn't think you'd be able to go on, >> Margaret? Did I ever have moments where I didn't think I'd be Oh my god. in the beginning years. Yes. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Absolutely. I I think with anything great, it takes per a lot of perseverance and never quitting. I mean, unless you just have all the signs from the heavens that are like, "This is just not working." But yeah, had I quit in the times where I'm like, "This is way too hard. I'm I'm like buried. I'm dying. I'm, you know, we're in debt. I owe my factory a million dollars, whatever. >> Had I not figured it out, I mean, I wouldn't be here. But yeah, so so many times now, no, I don't have that. We're very stable company and and a nice great size and we're very very profitable. But um yeah, for through those those building like getting from zero getting to a million dollar getting to 500,000 in revenue is hard. Getting to a 500 to a million is so hard. Getting to a million to one five is so hard. >> Once you start getting past like the 10, not a lot of companies get past the 10 million. >> No. >> And that that going from one to 10 million is brutal. >> Brutal. Even 10 to 20 is also hard. Not as hard. it cuz then you have, you know, when you're if you're doubling your sales or even if you have 25% growth, 25% of like 500,000 and 25% of 40 million growth, like it compounds pretty quickly once you start bigger. But yeah, those years are hard and I didn't have any money to like put good, you know, to to to grow it. I just like I went on retained earnings. Yeah. M what do you think still keeps you motivated after all this time? I feel like you're so incredibly passionate about it. Like >> oh my gosh, I feel like we are just truly in the last year like just getting started. I really >> It's the best. I'm so proud of what we've built. I'm so proud in the last few years what we've built. I just feel like all those learnings that we've had that I've had throughout the years, like it's finally coming into fruition and all the dots are connecting and things like that and we just have an amazing team. But what keeps me motivated is I just love what I do. I just truly I love making beautiful jewelry. I love seeing it on people. I love talking to the customers when they come into the store or I see them on the streets or I see them on a you know I was I was in a jungle in um I was in Costa Rica but um yeah in a jungle in Costa Rica like where I ran into customers and it's so fun like you said that how you know what you do you get to meet lots of people and some of your friendships have come out of the people you interviewed like some of my friendships and the people that I love have come out of like customers that I've met in the store or like out in the world or on vacation and uh and I just love the way what I do makes people feel. >> I think that's really really fun when I really hear about like it makes you know I was going through cancer and nothing made me feel better than putting on your jewelry with you know with a scarf and I felt beautiful again or I'm a surgeon or I'm a nurse and I love wearing your jewelry in the O because it just makes me feel so good. You know, jewelry has zero utilitarian purpose except for making you feel good. That's it. It's really >> there's no purpose for it other than that. So, >> no, it's so good. I live in my little lilac boxes. It's really wonderful. >> Oh, thank you. >> So, it is so fun. So, who do you feel like you had to become? Like, if you had to put it in a sentence, who did you have to become in order to be sitting in this chair right now, the person that you are? like what did you have to let go of and what are some traits that you've had to really embody? >> Huh? That's such a good question. Who did I have to become? Thinking about the 20 years that we've had because yeah, >> the only reason why I looked back is because we had a 20-y year anniversary and we were like looking back at moments of the business. >> I go back to that like I really followed my instincts. I didn't have an ego about doing things or asking people or knocking on doors or picking up the phone or you know when I wasn't anybody of notoriety like still saying like I'm a jewelry designer and this is what I want to do and um so like really checking my e at the door and um yeah and just like I think we talked about it just like not not giving up. Yeah, having that perseverance when times are hard was when I look back was really important. Yeah. >> So, you love community sounds like like I do and I feel like I'm starting to see you do a lot of different community things um on social as well. >> Uh which is so awesome that I feel like I see you with community all the time on your social media which is so fun. >> Yeah. Why do you think um like what's made community so important to you and why are you so interested in like in real life events right now? >> Oh my gosh. Well, that is one reason why I wanted to, you know, when we talked about opening stores, I was like there's so much to grow on ecom. You know, we really talked about how much more we have to grow on ecom even in the United States that we're let's just focus our energy on that. But when when we talked about opening our our first store, um I really wanted to do it in our own building because I wanted to get that experience. I was like, I want to be in the store. I want to pop in the store when customers come. Like I want to talk to people. Like I want to hear what they didn't like about something or they didn't like or how that made them feel or I want to see them try it on. I want to see them interact with it. Um, yeah, that's like the heart and soul of our business is is the community like our followers, our MM girls, and how they post about it and how they make their own, you know, chats and and their own not websites, but uh Discords and things like that like um yeah, these these women in this community is how we're we're here. Just it's amazing. And then you know with social media it's it's so um you know the community feel and aspect is just so pervasive in all the different channels of social media. So yeah community is so important but I love live events. We have piercings now and we're trying to figure out like how do we bring >> Yeah. We're like how do we bring people into the store? And it's fun when you see people in our store. I don't know why but like women just talk to each other. I don't go into any other store where like people randomly start talking to each other and saying this looks good on you. But in our store like it happens all the time. I walk in and like it's like it's a party. It's so fun. >> I feel like that is so much from how you are though. Anybody listening to this podcast can feel that you're just like yeah I'm going to talk to all the customers. And you don't have an ego about you. It's not like oh it's a very special moment to meet me everyone. You're like no of course you're not like knowing you. Um, but I think that comes from the top down and I truly think that that intention and energy is like infused in everything you do from the jewelry to your team to like when people walk into like they feel that. I I don't I don't forget >> that the intention in which we do something with people feel it, you know. >> Oh yeah. I think it's the same thing of if you've gone to a dinner party and you're like why was that so fun? The person putting on the dinner party always leads the energy in the room. >> For sure. And so that's how I feel about maybe, you know, Melinda Maria is like I'm a very open person and loved talking to people and, you know, I'll sit down with whoever and I don't know. I'm I still think I'm just a girl making jewelry and, >> you know, people like it, they can buy it and it's amazing if they do. But yeah, I I think that it's a it's an intention of being authentic of who you are that like bleeds into content and and in a store and the energy of, you know, the people that come into the office or the people that come into the store and and how that how it makes them feel is important to me. Yeah. >> What are you most excited about right now? Could be could be your business, could be personal life, it could be one of both. >> Yeah. One, I'm excited that my kids are a little more self-sufficient. >> How old are they? >> I am definitely enjoying that. 15. They're almost 16 and 15 and 11. >> So, I'm definitely enjoying that and I def I see the other side like when they're going to be gone soon and I'm excited to like really, you know, have that extra time for my husband and the business. So, I see people and I hear people all the time saying, "Oh my gosh, I wish I had something." And I'm so grateful that I have this business because I love it. It brings me so much joy >> and I see where I could have probably been lost when my kids leave. So, I'm very excited to to be able to pour myself back into it like, you know, like I did when I first started working seven days a week. Um, but uh, you know, I think we're going to open some stores. We have some rollouts happening for stores. I think that that's going to be really fun. Um, just to see the different areas and locations that we end up in. Um, we know where it's going to we know where they're going to be. So, I'm I'm excited about that and just to keep doing what we're doing. I think we're, you know, my team's doing an amazing job and, you know, running things in production and customer service and content and um, you know, we're just having we're having fun. We have a lot of fun and I just want to continue to really just keep doing what we're doing. >> There's a lot of people who aren't having fun. >> Well, it's not always fun, but we do have fun. I think a lot of people, that's what they say when they come into the office. They're like, "You guys just seem like you have a lot of fun." And I think we do. We work really hard. I think everyone does work very, very hard and everyone is very focused on doing the best at their job. But yeah, we definitely do. We have a lot of fun. >> That's like a culture thing though. Is there something that you would say to somebody uh maybe who's in their business who has the ability to create that culture? Like just anywhere to start or some words of wisdom around like how to how can we how can we look at it more of having fun again? I mean, I don't know. We laugh a lot. Um we genuinely I think everyone likes each other. Um, you know, it's that it's that culture of, you know, hiring people that feel like, you know, they're not going to be a jerk. >> Yeah. >> You know, um, yeah, it's culture is a funny thing. You could have one person throw the whole thing off, but >> um, >> I don't know. you know, company like we do like we'll bring in charerie boards or we'll bring in food trucks or we'll you bring in cupcakes and desserts or I'll bring in, you know, pastries in the morning or get bagels every once in a while or we we do a lot of like community service together or things that are bonding like we do we do things together. So, I think that is really important. It's that it's not just like okay, we're only working like there's time to celebrate. There's there's things to celebrate. Um there's community service to to bond you and to give back. So, and that feels really good. So, there's there's culture things that that have to happen as well. >> Yeah. You pay attention to culture. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> What would you say is if there was, you know, there there's a lot of people listening to this who maybe feel like it's too late to start a business or >> Oh, please. >> They Yeah. Tell them. Tell them. What would you tell them? >> Please. No. Oh my god. I feel I'm 50 and I feel like we're just getting started. No, if you love something, it doesn't, you know, just figure out what you love. Like, it's not going to feel like work and it's going to be exciting to wake up in the morning. Like, never do something. I definitely tell my kids that like do not chase money. The money will come if you love it because you'll have perseverance and you will have dedication and you will have passion about it and the money will eventually come. But if you're doing something just to make a buck, it's just it's too hard. Uh but yeah, I just I hate that. Like it's too late. I think that's what people think because they're worried about they're too worried about what people think and they their ego is leading their decisions. And if your ego is leading, then you're always going to be not winning. >> Yeah. >> You'll be a slave. >> Yeah. A slave. I mean, hasn't everyone follow? Hasn't the algorithm hit anybody? All you women that is like >> Jackie Oness is I I don't know who the women Jenny Craig started her business at 87. Like, yeah, >> Martha Stewart started her business at 44. Spanx, >> who how old was she? Sarah. >> She was. >> Yeah, we love this. We love uh Sarah. What's her last name again? Blake. Love Sarah. >> Love her. We love her over here, too. >> Yeah. um Candace Nelson like I mean she started sprinkles when she's a little bit younger but now she just started Pisana and Candace is a friend and she's crushing Pisana and she already had an exit of a very successful business and she's like I'm going to start a pizza company now and um you know there's so many my gosh I would I mean I am never selling Luna Maria because the full business because I love I just what else would I do but >> if I were ever going to but I'm not I would start another I love that. Well, I can say from from this podcast, if I had to to just like put a label on it, it's like find something you love and you won't feel like you're working like >> Yes. To get because there is a work hard >> there is a lot of work that goes along with it. No job is like it's working fun all the time. Yeah. There's definitely a big part of work that's, you know, still feels like work, but it's the fun times that like keep you going and the passion that keeps you going. For sure. Yeah. >> Well, I'm so grateful you came on. Is there any last words that you want to share with anyone? We're going to link up all of your jewelry and where to get it, you guys. It's one of my favorite brands. >> I love it. >> So, Melinda, where um or anything that you want to share with everyone? >> Oh my god, that's such a big general question. It >> really is. It's too much, but answer if you want. >> Very direct questions. I don't know. I'm very into I'm very into health and wellness right now. get lots of plenty of sleep and put yourself first. I used to work where I just ran myself ragged. Yeah. >> And I felt like there was like a badge of honor about that. And now I'm very much about like >> getting your sleep, self-care, um you know, working harder, not smarter. No, smarter not harder. >> Um no, I think like you got to take care of yourself to keep the the wheels in motion. It's >> No, I think that's such a great message. I'm definitely feeling that message cuz for me >> I mean if you are a creative too like it feels like that creativity just gets cut off when you're burnt out too. It's like you go you know so >> totally totally totally yes and I have been going around and I have been sleeping getting in bed around 9:00 >> like I've been disciplined you have to I'm like I've been so disciplined about I'm still on my phone sometimes which I really am trying not to be but I do sleep without my phone in the room. >> Yeah. >> I Yeah. I've been trying to go to bed no later than like 9:45 like closing my eyes. I think that that's if I really any business advice I could give you. It's that >> uh No, I totally I literally I talk about it all the time in my life. >> Yeah. You got to fill your own cup. >> Yes. Well, I'm so grateful for you. I'm going to link everything up below you guys. So, you can go and check out all of the incredible jewelry. I highly recommend. I mean, I'm an earcuff girly. You have some great ear cuffs. You have amazing earrings. I'm obsessed with the rings. You really cannot go wrong. So, thank you so much for coming on the show. So grateful for you. >> All right.