Thank god I realized this like copy paste method of oh you're scared. Okay, get in the room with people who have already done it and they're going to make it possible for you. Even if you don't believe it right now, a single room can change that for people. Truly. And we're back with another episode of He Said She Said. And we're not just back. We are back the day after we just hosted 10 amazing businesses, 11 people in our house for a two-day mastermind. It was unreal. And I like I'm not just saying that. It was better than I expected. Well, this is something that we love to do. And this year, as you guys have been listening to the podcast, have been hearing us say that everything we do needs to be fully aligned with what we want and our skill set. And we did that not because we wanted to be selfish, but because we know that when we are in our zones of genius, when we feel good, when we love what we're doing, it literally radiates out to everyone energetically. And I will tell you, nothing feels better than getting the compliment that someone says to us, which everyone said, like, I can tell you genuinely love this. And we're so grateful for the impact it had because I do believe that we are the best at events, some of the best at events because we really our lives have changed at events. And we are not only, you know, whenever we go, we're not only attendees, but we're also massive observers. So, we learn what we love. We learn what moved the needle for us. We learn how important it is to acknowledge fears, but say, you know, I I understand that you feel nervous, and I understand that this feels like a risk, or I understand that you feel nervous to even come in this room, and that's okay, but we're going to move anyway. Yeah, I agree. Uh I hope people receive this as humble, but I really think we are the absolute best at putting together event experiences that grow your life and your business. And I meet the best. And here's why. We're not skilled more than other people. We're not special more than other people. That's not what I mean when I say the best. I think we just enjoy it so much and like you said we dissect other experiences that tells us I would do this or I wouldn't do that and we just know how to dial it in and we know how to make you leave not only a bigger better stronger person but with real tangible next actions you know I mean it's not just a consume consume consume and all right good luck it's like strategic well another thing about that is is where feedback people like, "Do I love feedback?" Not necessarily. Do I want it? Absolutely. Cuz I want to get better. So, I think that through the years we've always been really open to feedback, asking attendees. I love how bold you are with asking like, "Hey, would you ever get on the phone? Would you tell me what you thought of this? Would you tell me what you think of this? Where where were we missing something? Where did you not feel good? Where was a breakdown?" And I've always admired that about you is that you'll literally strategically go straight for somebody to to ask them their feedback. Well, it's because we care. Yeah, we literally care. How can we take it from great to greater? You know what I mean? And at the end, the best compliment was this. Everybody asked us, not every half of them, oh my god, can we come back? Can we do it again? Can we come back to your house? And they meant it. And when I say they meant it, we chose dates. Like we're like, okay, I guess coming back. Yeah, they're coming back. More than half of them are coming back. So, I guess we're doing a second one. So, if you guys want to come to our house and mastermind for two days, and I mean really mastermind for two days and be on both of our podcasts. That was that was maybe the most fun part. That was pretty cool. Yeah, I think that was the part for them that was probably some of the most expansive. But not only that, the value in being able to obviously come on the podcast and we we help prep you. We dial in your, you know, you you send in questions to us so that it's in your zone of genius and we really get you in a place where you are at your best for the segment that you're on the podcast. And that is so incredibly valuable for them because so many of them want to be on podcasts, but they haven't necessarily been on a big show yet. that they've been on other podcasts, but to get on a big show and lead with that and put that in their media kit at the top with the beautiful clip that they produced with the reals on their page, it's a lot of credibility for people. And we realized that early on in our careers is it was really important for us to be able to get around people who were doing big things. Lifted us up. Yes. Not only because it really lifts you up, but also to the outside world. It's like, whoa, wait, who are they? Who are they hanging around with? What podcast were they on? And those things can really skyrocket where you're at and where you're going if you use them correctly. You know, when I was in fitness and when I finally got a fitness magazine cover, there was a really clear difference between me who got a magazine cover and another girl who got a magazine cover who did not understand how to use that quote unquote 15 minutes of fame because I like utilized that thing to death. I pimped that magazine cover out so hard. I used it in pitches when I was on stage. I left it up on screen the whole time that I was talking up there to get other opportunities. I used it for other opportunities. I literally used that thing like crazy and made sure people knew I was on covers and so many girls went on a cover and people were like the second the month was over. It's like they never brought it out again. They never talked about it. They never pitched with it. They never had it on, you know, their social media pages. Like I was recycling the crap out of that and bringing it up and talking about it over and over and over again. And so that's what you need to do with those moments that you get. Yeah. It became your backstage pass. Hey, let me on stage. Hey, let me in this group. Hey, let me Right. And that's what happens when you get to be on something like Lor's top 25 podcast. You can't be shy about it. You can't be humble about it. Yeah. So, the masterminding, the podcast, the one-on-one strategy session with me, all that stuff. Best bargain on the entire planet, by the way. 10 businesses. That's what we cap it at. So, it's really fun. intimate sitting around our dining room table while they all stare at the ocean and learn, which is epic. Uh, if you guys want to come to the next one, it's September 26th and 27th. Like we said, they grabbed half the seats already, so better move quick. Go to chrisarter.me/we because it is our VIP weekend mastermind. Again, go to chrishearter.me. That'sme chrisarter.me/we and grab one of those last spots. Okay, babe. You and I woke up today and we served our asses off. We're like, oh, we're tired. But we also have to record a podcast episode. Yes. And I was like, I don't feel like going deep on something or teaching something. Yeah. Let's have some fun. Yeah. I was like, let's just ask each other questions, but let's not tell each other what the questions are. So guys, I'm going to ask Lori questions. She ask me one. Vice versa, vice versa. We don't know what's coming. I don't even know. We kind of said, is this business or personal? So, I don't even know. Some of it's a mix for me. We do not know what's coming. So, in that context, who's wants to be the first answerer? I'll ask you first. Okay, go for it. Okay. So, you take one-on-one clients all the time. Yeah. Sometimes you take really big businesses. Sometimes you take businesses bigger than yours. Yep. You do strategy sessions. You run a very large portion of these weekends, the masterminds that we do together. Do you ever still get nervous that you're not going to be able to solve their problems? Good question. No. But let me explain why. Not from like an ego standpoint. I'm not nervous that I can't solve their problems because I don't think I can solve everyone's problems, but I think that I have the network to help solve whatever has them stuck. There's times like with my one-on-one clients. Yeah. That I go pay other experts to come meet with us or to go into my client's business and like work with their whole team or to come meet with us in our half day meetings and spend the whole day. I'm like, "Hey, what's it going to cost you to come spend the whole day in this this half day meeting and be there as we work through this tech thing or this AI thing or whatever it is." So, it's not that I think I have the answers for everybody, but at this point, I've got the network that has the answers and I'm willing to go get them even at my own. I've seen you do that. Like, hey, I'm we're going to solve this problem for them, so I'm bringing someone else in. That's really cool. That is also like that just makes you feel a million times better when you don't believe you have to solve everything. I've actually like I think that's where people get it wrong if they're coaching is feeling like they're going to have to know everything. And that's so much pressure. Mhm. I don't know. Anyway, I saw that you did that recently and I was like, that is so genius because they're going to get obviously they're going to get exactly what they need. I don't believe that I have all the answers nor that I have to, but I'm willing to go leverage all the hard work I put into creating this epic, you know, network. Yeah. When somebody says, "Chris, I trust you enough to solve my problems." Yeah. Is part of it too because obviously you do it with anything like that in interview process so it just makes you feel better. I will never take a business that I'm not excited to work with. I mean that would be torture. At this point we don't have to do these things. So I couldn't imagine at 47 years old anything worse than sitting spending time with someone number one who I don't like or number two who I can't help. Like that would be a unnecessary jail sentence. No. You know what I mean? Not being able to help them would be the worst feeling in the whole world in my home. No. Okay. I got one for you. I can tell you're excited. All right. Uh I want to start with this one. How the hell did you end up here? And here's what I mean. Look at your life. You weren't supposed to be here like this. You beat all odds. From the fitness titles to the 11 magazine covers to all the money to the ocean view to the people you know and call friend. like you weren't supposed to be here because you grew up in a tiny town in the middle of nowhere with parents that had extreme financial struggles and uh you know albeit great parents but you know certainly didn't teach you a damn thing about finance and lots of anxiety that's the one I really want to drive home like you were an anxiety machine people really need to understand that you couldn't step foot put on a stage to save your life without go to dinner without drinking a bunch of beer beforehand it was beer and So sorry everyone. Yep. And so how the hell did you end up here? And I don't want some long drawn out diagram about this. No. No. Ready? Just make it easy. No. No. Here's what I mean. What's the one single thing do you think that made the biggest difference that allowed you to become who you are right now? Oh gosh. Forcing myself to get in rooms with people who were doing it. Really? Yeah. Example Kathy Savage going to her fitness camp. Shout out to Kathy. um seeing, you know, I want I wanted to be on stages and I was like, well, I better go find the person who knows how to put people on stages. But it wasn't just it wasn't just, oh, she was putting girls on stage. It's because it's finding someone who says they understand what you believe is a unique position even though it's not unique. Meaning, you know, I had watched her on MTV True Life and she took a girl who wasn't in fitness at all, who was super nervous, and I watched her put her on stage, like go through everything, and she just kept saying like, "Anyone can do this. I can help anyone do this." So truly, it was like I was able to just do what I wanted to do because she believed in me and she had the path. So definitely going to isogenics events. That thing those really did help like form your ability to speak and stuff. Oh my gosh. I went to a David Wood isoggenics trainer trainer. Yeah. And that was just one of the biggest breakthroughs I've ever had. That was a breakthrough for speaking. So, first honestly had to come to stage because I was so scared. Chris like I was able to put my body on stage but like to ask me to speak and say a word on stage was still impossible. Even after winning fitness competitions I still didn't have a voice. Like my voice shook. I couldn't say anything. I felt like I would cry whenever I would like start to think I could form any sort of thought at all. So, um it was definitely first like that's how much anxiety I had you guys. like full-on panic attack breakdowns. And so it was first getting a fitness coach and getting in the room with her and all of the other girls and having them breathe life into me and seeing all different types of people who were also so nervous. Then um you know the next step for us was we got into network marketing and the trainings that they had there to really create leadership is what really helped me break through in a major way. Taught you kind of business. Yeah. taught me business and using my voice and they're like it's really tough to be a leader there without being able to like you have to speak, you have to lead, you have to get in front of people and there's very little risk, right? Like there's all aside no risk. So yeah, that really started the breakthrough and thank God I realized this like copy paste method of oh you're scared. Okay, get in the room with people who have already done it and they're going to make it possible for you even if you don't believe it right now. You're trying to figure out the how when you've never been in a room to see the how or the and by copy paste I mean you did it over and over and over. Then it was Louis's room. Then it was you know I mean the tiger ring is all these things. You just kept putting yourself all right I'm going to go into the scary room but I know I'm going to come out better and now I'm going in this next scary room but I'm going to come out better. So you that's the one single thing that probably moved the needle the most for you. Yeah. It's I mean I really want people to understand you shouldn't be here not in the form that you are not in the form hell your boyfriend that you thought you're going to marry a lot of your friends all of them are not even alive right now. So when I say you shouldn't even be here like they've overdosed. Yeah. You came from really crazy beginnings to have this extraordinary life you have right now. Yeah. I'm so grateful and I'm you know a single room can change that for people. Yeah. Truly. And that's what it did for me. Like shout out to Kathy because that first room and then Isogenics the second room. Like shout out because that is like thank God. I don't know where I'd be truly. Yeah, that's really cool. All right, my turn. Okay, your turn. Okay. What is something you do that doesn't match what people think about you? Okay, I got to put some real thought in this. What is something that I do that doesn't match the way people think about me? So they they probably assume I'm one way. They perceive you're a certain way. Maybe you're maybe they think you're super put together. Maybe they think I don't know what what do you think they think of you? And then what are you like, "Oh, if they really hung out with me, this is what they'd know." I think people think I am a lot more politically correct, you know, don't swear very much. Um really kind of not primit proper, but like polite individual. Yeah. And really, I'm just a 14-year-old pervert with a terrible swear mouth and both of us. Yes. And um just love getting in trouble and can have a real temper. And when you say to mix it up clarify um like I don't even know how to clarify getting in trouble. just like I don't try to come across as I don't know what kind of trouble he's talking about cuz he doesn't get in trouble but I don't try and come across as like really PC or really not polite or really whatever. And I'm glad that if that's the case, but if you hang out with me enough, I'm just going to make nothing but completely inappropriate jokes. I think you're just funny and down to earth. I think that you are like you're a little more unfiltered, but I'm the one that wants to stay out all night, but you put me to bed. Like that kind of stuff. I don't know. I don't know if he stays out all night. Once in a while. Once in a while you want to. I mean, if left to my own devices. If left to your own devices. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. So, I think people think I've got it buttoned up and put together and Yeah. No, I'm still 14-year-old. Yeah. I mean, same. That's why we like each other. So, I got one for you. Hold on. What made you step into this sudden fashion and jewelry era? Like if people have watched you over the last year and a half to two years, you have become fashion obsessed, clothing obsessed, jewelry obsessed, really putting a lot of time into style. And that wasn't you. You were really pretty much sweatshirts, t-shirts, sports bras. I always liked getting really ready for dinner. Yeah. Like I've always loved that. It's not that I haven't loved it. I've always like admired all the women who've done it. I just kind of told myself I couldn't do it or didn't know how to do it. It felt really overwhelming to me. And honestly, when you're really getting business off the ground, it felt really hard and exhausting. And so, I've always wanted to do it, but I just felt like I maybe for a little while didn't have the bandwidth to do it. And it was Can I ask you right there? Did you suddenly get the bandwidth or did you decide to have the bandwidth? I decided to have the bandwidth. Yeah, I think that's a lesson for everybody. Yeah, I decided to have the bandwidth because I didn't get the bandwidth at all. I'm I I got busier to be honest for a little while in life there. But the payoff the payoff in my mind was going to be a lot bigger because a couple things were happening. Like I was leveling myself up in I wanted to level myself up in life. I wanted to level up my circle of friends. Meaning I knew that the women who were having the conversations that I wanted, they'd already gone through kind of like this glow up. meaning when they started to really uplevel, they're like, I want to uplevel how I appear as well. I want to uplevel because it changes how you feel in a room. It just does. And if you are admiring someone cuz that's how you want to look, then take the time to learn how to look that way if you know it's going to make you feel a certain way. And so, I wanted to level up for those reasons of like, you know, the women that I want to be around, they take this time to care about their appearance or just how they're walking in the room. It's not just a how you look but like what did you put on and how are you holding yourself in that room as well. So it was an entire thing for me. Has there been a benefit in changing this? It it was the third big reason that I wanted to was to attract a more uplevelled audience and crowd because we were doing well I knew that I was going to be joining you in the elite mastermind as well and that is a woman who's further along on her journey. So, I also knew I wanted to attract her, but I also wanted to inspire all the people who saw me in my sweatpants and my leggings and go, "Oh my god, like you made such a difference this last year. How did you do it?" And honestly, when you do a style uplevel, you actually change in a major way because it takes commitment, it takes time, it takes effort, and it takes intention. And as you're doing that, you just notice that you start kind of applying that to everything. And so, you know, every day that I'm I get dressed, I also show up on social because guess what? I don't want to waste an outfit. And as crazy as that sounds, I kind of have this mantra of don't waste an outfit. Get online. I like it. And that has been changing my life because two days ago, I post three times in one day cuz I was like, I just feel inspired. I feel really good. I feel great in this outfit. And you're already ready. Yeah. I have that mantra. It's never waste a black t-shirt. Oh, there you go. Well, looks like you're going to be online all the time. You know what's really neat? I've seen a trickle down effect and you know I'm not going to name anyone because I don't want to embarrass them but I think it's really awesome. A lot of you are like me and you started your business or your podcast or your courses because you were super passionate about something and you wanted to turn it into your life's purpose and your job. But once you got started, you had no freaking idea how hard the marketing portion was going to be and how many different hats that you were going to have to wear. By the time you even get to the marketing portion, you're usually exhausted or you don't know what step to take next. And that's why I'm so excited to introduce you to Constant Contact because it's going to help you with so many of those problems. Constant Contact's award-winning marketing platform is here to make marketing way easier and way more effective for small businesses like yours. The best part, you don't need to know anything about marketing. Your struggle with expensive, slow, and unmeasurable marketing is over. With their all-in-one platform, you can create and manage attention grabbing campaigns in just a few clicks. Email, text, social media, events, landing pages, you name it, it's all in one place. No more juggling dozens of different tools. So, I'm so glad that I found Constant Contact and can't wait for you guys to get started. Get a free 30-day trial when you go to constantcont.com. Try constant contact free for 30 days at That's constantcont.com. I know I'm preaching to the choir when I say when you are starting a business, that task list just keeps growing and growing. When I started Glossy, it was so overwhelming in the beginning because it's like it's never going to end and you're never going to be able to figure everything out. And finding the right tool that not only helps you out, but simplifies everything can be such a gamecher. And for millions of businesses, including myself with Glossy, that tool is Shopify. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started. Get started with your own design studio with hundreds of readytouse templates, Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. Accelerate your content creation. Shopify is packed with helpful AI tools that write product descriptions, page headlines, and even enhance your product photography. Get the word out like you have a marketing team behind you. Easily create email and social media campaigns wherever your customers are scrolling or strolling. And best yet, Shopify is your commerce expert with worldclass expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into cha-ching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy. Shopify.com/happy. Clients and people that follow us for a while, all of a sudden they've stepped up their fashion jewelry game. And in a way that I could tell like is inspired by the stuff you put together. I love and it's really cool. Like I love seeing I'm like oh this has a positive effect on people that also always wanted to do this but maybe didn't have a muse or an excuse or uh the guidance to Let me ask you a question. What happened to your mom when we went and got her second piercings? Yes. Tell me what she did all day long. She's like I look so good. Oh my gosh. I look feminine. Oh, I love that. It looks so beautiful. All day. Is she still talking about that? Yep. And there's these little things for women that I really think that not every woman has to be this way at all. Trust me, I went through a big phase where this would this did not serve me this conversation. I was not into it. Other I was into other things. So, if you're not into it, it's not your time right now. You're not being called to it. You you'll hate it if it's if it's not if it doesn't sound exciting. But for me, it's like being able to adorn yourself and like put things on that feel beautiful or sparkly or they catch the light. I don't know what it is. It's just it feels really good to be intentional with putting these fun things on and getting, you know, it's getting a signature style. And I know that you actually struggle with this right now and you want one, like how do I not necessarily signature style, like how do I make this look more exciting? And I've figured out that with accessories you can do that. So what's your what's your world record for the number of accessories you have to take off at the end of the night so far? So far I've had like 42 I think on you guys. It's a process. But normally the normal the normal amount is 32. Oh well good. That's a big that you saw me with all weekend long. But it's fast. It it goes on in like four minutes. This is fun. Should we do two more fast questions? Yeah. Okay. Um hold on. I have one. Oh. What's something that you have to do in the next 5 years no matter what or you're going to be really pissed off? Sell my company. Absolutely. No doubt about it. Easy to answer. It's a bucket list thing for me to start a company from scratch and sell it for a significant amount of money. Partially for the money, yes, but mostly for the credibility and the validation that yep, that is a true entrepreneur that was able to build something of massive enterprise value and find a buyer for it. I think that's the pinnacle of entrepreneurship. There's plenty of versions of entrepreneurship, but that's the pinnacle is being able to create something of massive enterprise value that the world needed and valued and somebody came along and said, "Oh, I want to buy that from you." You got to be a really big part of the idea machine in the world that moves some big things. That one's easy, but I got a second one. Okay. I know you only asked for one. I want to start a classic car reseller. like have this incredible epic warehouse, maybe 50 to 100 cars in inventory, but but not care if they sell, just drive them, be around them, tinker on them, and then the ones that sell a little sell. Great. You know, some money comes in. First, we got to put ourselves in position to like not care about that. Yeah. So, that kind of comes with the company selling. Yep. But that is I have to do that within 5 years or I'll be upset with myself. Okay. That's exciting. I can already see it. Like I already see it. I already see family members there. I already see you in it. I already see me, you know, driving down there and hanging out for a little while or bringing out food or something fun. Or maybe I'll bring some rosé. I don't know. I'll just sit in the corner. I think rosé and driving classic cars. I'm not driving them. We're hanging out there. We're hanging out there. All right. Uh, I got make one up for you here. Let's see. Um, what's something that you do right now that you really, really, really don't like doing, but you do it anyways because it contribute to contributes towards a good life or a great life? um like what's something you push through or you don't like doing? You're like, you know, people might think, oh, you love going to the gym or you love doing this, you love doing that, but you've power gotten I've really done such a good job of getting all of those things out of my Yeah, I don't know that there is wait this might just be a good answer in itself for everybody. build a life where you're not doing stuff that you have to put through. I mean, one thing I love my podcast more than anything, but I'm I'm taking too many interviews like up front and that's really tough for me. I'm doing like four interviews a week right now and I don't want to be I want to be doing two. Yeah. So, that feels hard. Four feels hard. You're super frontloaded, aren't you? Like you're months ahead. But the thing is it's like what happens with the podcast is I always want to be networking and I always want to be um helping people with their book launches. Yeah. So what happens is everybody comes who I want to be helping with the book launch. Like I can't even tell you how many people Yeah. here or with something that they're like hey you know I have this or I want to come on or I have this message and then we also have things that we want to do for our friends and and people and um and that becomes all the extra interviews. I struggle with that. That's you got your normal number of interviews booked and then something always comes up. This friend has a book launch. Hey, this friend has this thing going on. So, I'm trying to work I'm trying to mentally work around that because I don't know if that's ever going to end. So, we'll see. But I I don't love doing four. It's It's way too heavy for me during the week. It's way too heavy for everyone. Um because what happens is if they were even if they were all on the same day, that would be better. But they tend to never fall that way because people's schedules are tough and I normally am so strict. But for those friends or for that person who's like, I have this tight book launch turnaround. I feel like I'm always like giving up another afternoon in the week and I just I don't know how long I'm going to be able to do that because Glossy is number one priority right now and I need to be really strategic. Numera Uno Gloy. Okay. Well, that's kind of fun. Should we just change a show to this? I'm not kidding. People are like, "No, please no." Actually, I would like your feedback. Should we ask each other questions that we have no freaking idea what's coming more often? More often because it ultimately leads to value. Like I was listening to your answers. It led to value. I don't think I don't think we're capable of answering things and not trying to spin it into value. It's like just what we do. Yeah. All right guys. Well, thanks for listening to our shenanigans. We love appreciate you guys. And go grab one of those seats if you want to come to our house September 26th, 27th and mastermind and be on a podcast, all that cool stuff. It's epic. It's epic. It's epic. Best thing we've ever done. So, go to chrisarter.me/we for the weekend VIP mastermind. It's chrisarter.me slwe. All right, guys. Thanks for listening. We'll see you next week.