When you see a new feature, use it. That is a way to be algorithm proof in a way because you get rewarded for using it. When I think about like algorithm proof and and like what you should be doing, it's really about like trying new things and really focusing on your existing community and how you can nurture them. Christina, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Oh, I'm so honored to be here. So excited. I could talk to you all day. So, this is going to be so fun. Oh, so fun. There there might be weird stories. There might be swear words. There might be What else? Can we swear as long as your baby is still in uterero? When do we stop? We never stop. We need to exposing DM me and let me know. But later we don't stop. Don't DM her. We We don't want the DMs. We don't actually want them. We're going to make our own opinions here. Um, I'm so excited to have you on. You have been someone who's now a friend, but has been in our community for a long time, coming by way of Fast Foundations, and you've just been that person who, you know, you guys, for anybody listening who's had products, masterminds, events, courses. Sometimes you get those people in your world where all of a sudden you're like, "Oh, this quote unquote like customerclient all of a sudden is adding so much value to the rooms, to the courses, to whatever they're in." And that was absolutely you. It's like those people who just make your products and events better because of what you bring and what you add to the community that's in there. And it's really hard to ignore those people. like, well, you you just you made yourself harder. No, I'm just kidding. Because you're like you're so grateful for them and also you're also learning from them. So Chris and I have just been so massively grateful for you and what an advocate you are. Like you're like the meme. Like surround yourself with those people who speak your name, you know, like powerfully in rooms that you're not in. Like you are you're the meme. I Well, okay. I have nothing bad to say about you and Chris. There's like nothing nothing. Um, but partially I would say like a big piece of it is like in the online space and like you know this from being in so many masterminds and in rooms like there is a lot of smoke and mirrors and there you know I've paid for lots of different kind of mentorship and like you and Chris have been like both friends and consistent mentors for me like all these years almost four years and um but it's because like you bring I always tell everyone this. I'm like if anyone's considering anything you guys bring the best people together and like all of my like business best friends I'm like oh I met them through Foundations. Oh, I met them at a round table. Like, oh, they were in the mastermind with me, so it's easy to talk about. Well, I'm so grateful for you. And like, honestly, you guys, she's pregnant this year, which we're so happy about. But also, she's not in the elite mastermind this year, but it's just so much fun having you in those rooms. So, I'm sad until, you know, next year or whenever I get to see you, but but now we get to hang. So, now I get to see you more often. Okay. So, I want to talk all about your business and what you do and how you came about that, but tell me about your first kind of venture into entrepreneurship. Oh my goodness. So, I feel like I'm one of those people who's always had like a bit of an entrepreneurial spirit. Like, I'm not going to talk about a lemonade stand or anything, but like always kind of always kind of wanted something a little bit more. And then during the pandemic, I started doing some like consulting, like leadership consulting. That's my original background. And um I had always done like social media as a side hustle for a bunch of businesses, but I was like, you know, when something comes to you so naturally, but you you don't like really want to connect with it. Like you're like, "Oh, no, that that's that's not my thing." So I would do social media for these businesses. I had huge vision for them. Like I would love them. And then during the pandemic, I started doing this consulting and my consulting would sell like hotcakes. Like it would be like I would show up on Instagram stories. I would like talk about like, you know, strategy or or different things like that. and everything that I I did sold, which was like such a blessing and a gift. And so then from there, it was really I noticed that a lot of people actually had trouble selling online, like on social, I saw these business owners who had these beautiful businesses, heart-ledd businesses, things that they were like so passionate about, but they like couldn't talk about them online or like their posts they were making were really missing the mark. And so I started um as you've been a recipient of um even as as late as today started giving people unsolicited feedback. And I realized and I realized uh that there was something there. And so me and my business partner, Mariam, who I know um you know as well, we got together and we we just decided we're like, what if we just tried it? And so we tried it and we started working with a few businesses and then it kind of just it kind of spiraled from there and has kind of grown and now we have our agency with 85 clients that we do social media and podcasting for. And so I just answered both questions at once. But yeah, that's been kind of the full for has been I feel like I'm a newer entrepreneur. It's only been like 5 years really in the making, but it has been like such an incredible journey of of growth. Are you hirable now? Meaning like do you think you could go back to not being an entrepreneur? No. But you know what? I'm not too proud to like if I was ever in a situation where like I needed to, I would. But like we were joking about how like we we hired a cleaner or whatever and I was saying how like by the end of hiring a cleaner like I would end up running the cleaners. like I would end up like like turning into like a cleaning business. Like everything I think of is like an entrepreneurial venture. Like I go into a store and I'm like I wonder how these people make money because if this costs this much and I know rent probably cost this much. Like I think my mindset has changed so much. Could you go back to being an employee? No. I literally I was going to my next question was like what are things that you would do before you were an employee? Like how would you if you had to make quick money what would you do? And there's so many things I would do, but really fast. There's so many I'm like first I'd probably like Uber and Door Dash while I planned my business like totally strategy of what I'm going to do next or although you know I go work at this coffee shop every day and I look at their job because I used to be a barista and I'm like yo I that doesn't I wouldn't mind like I could do it for a little while while I planned how to open another coffee shop. Lori, I think that's such a good point because something that I notice and I don't know if you feel the same way is that there that's why when you ask like could you do this? Like I'm not too proud to like if I was in a situation where I needed to start again or I needed to do it, I I would work at Starbucks. Like I would never for sure like ne there's nothing I have nothing against not being an entrepreneur, but it would be a means to an end for my next thing. And so when you were like, "What are the things you would do to make money?" It's like immediately I was like, "How PG-13 is this?" But um but yeah, Uber sounds good. Uber sounds fine. Yeah. Your your quad caramel macchiato extra whipped cream. No problem. Yeah. Would you sell socks for money? Use I'm not above it. Again, I'm not discriminating against any type of Not either. I'm not above it. Socks socks though. Like I would really have to be in dire situation for the other ones. And no no offense to anybody else, but that's just me. Okay. So when you met your co-founder Maria, tell me how you guys tell me how you guys met. Were you already in each other's lives or did it come over the business? Yeah. So we were in each other's lives. We went to university together. I'm a few years older and I was actually, this is not going to be shocking, but I was an RA. Um, which like that is shocking to me actually. Really? Because Jackie sent me a message one time and it was like I out of the blue. We do not typically Instagram message and she sent me this message that said, "You seem like you were heavily involved on campus." And I was like, "Damn it, Jackie, you knew. You knew." And I was uh but I was an RA when she was in first year and we we got really connected and um kind of stayed connected throughout the years. We were in the same major and we did a volunteer trip together. So there were like a few things that kept us really close. But during the pandemic, she worked in travel and so it was just travel was like kind of done and she wasn't sure what was next. And she is very creative and like very like graphically inclined and I'm like everything I do is crooked. like every photo I take like everything like people are always like why is that video shaking and I was like no I wasn't holding a gimbal yeah that was from that was from my own hands um so she's more on the creative side and I'm much more on the strategy side so that was kind of how we came together which I think is actually a really great thing when business with business partners is that when you have those different strengths like we don't pretend to do the same things we don't like go after it being like oh like she wants to write a caption like I'm like there's none of that it's like very aligned and and that was helpful in in becoming business partners. Okay. So, did you guys have to have hard conversations when you first like connected as business partners? When you decided to go into business? What did that look like? You know what's funny is not at the beginning cuz at the beginning it was very like high vibe squad like we were like whoa like and then things were happening so fast. Yeah. Yeah. And like we were making money and it was just like fun and and the thing that was really cool about Maria and I was that we always saw the bigger vision. Like we were always like should we invest to do that? Yeah, we should. like there was never a like oh like you know let's try to like you know keep this small. It's always been about like kind of the greater future and and so what's interesting is we didn't really have a hard conversation until I actually did one of Chris's roundts. It was the first one I ever did and we had to go up and talk about a problem and I went up and I talked about how I I was like you know I do a lot of like different stuff in the business and it's feeling really overwhelming and Chris was kind of like what does Maria do? And I was kind of like oh like it's actually kind of hard for me to put to words what she's doing. And then Chris was kind of like, "Well, then like are you guys business partners? Are you guys good business partners?" And I remember like I cried and I came back to Maria and I was like, "Maria, like I cried in front of this group of people and like I just like, you know, we should talk about this." And she's like, "It's so funny you say this because like I'm feeling kind of purposeless like and I'm feeling like I'm doing all these things that like aren't adding up and I really want to be doing something that's like meaningful and like I want a job like in in our business rather than like doing all this random stuff." So that was a huge catalyst for us and that was a conversation I was kind of scared to have. Uh, but it's always like on the other side of those things that better things come. It's just like always like a grind to get through them. Oh my god. Yes. And I always think of that with the hard conversations is I'm like it's not just relief on the other side. There's something actually like really good typically like something will open up or more money will come or someone else better will come. Like there's there's always something on the other side of a hard conversation. So, okay, let's let's dive into some social media stuff because this is what you guys do and I swear whenever I do any social media podcasts, people like love them. So, tell me overall how you're feeling about social media right now. Well, I'm feeling good about it. I'm feeling fine. But I would say right now, I think what's really hard about social media is like the uncertainty in the world, right? And I think it's causing a lot of people to not want to engage in fear of being too political or or things like that. But like I think as like business owners, it's our responsibility for us to be continuing to show up like even in these times when when things feel really difficult or overwhelming. So I think right now I think there's lots of great things going on with social. I think some of the other pieces is like you know there's lots of different platforms for people to choose from. Like a lot of these platforms like it's just the beginning and you're able to be a big thought leader on it when you know Instagram might not be it as Instagram has lots of things going on but like threads is brand new or LinkedIn only 1% of people post on LinkedIn. So there's lots of opportunity, but it's about finding it and having the perspective that there's opportunity and not like getting spiralled into the negativity. Do you find being a social media agency, are you guys also like do you feel like sometimes you're coaches like trying to get people to like post and find confidence? Totally. Yeah. Cuz on our in our agency like we have like you know 55 clients that do social, right? And so a big piece of the way that we work with people is there is a level of coaching because we know, you know, I can do people social all day, but it's best people buy from people. So like how can like the owner show up? How do we get the story? Like all of those pieces. So that's really important. And then we also coach people in our social business club. But it's like it's scary for people to show up right now, I think. And um and I think people aren't sure what showing up always looks like. Like I think it looks different for different people in different seasons. I know Lori like you and I are both people who like I I think like to show up like and have seen the results of it and like you know we know that people like love behind the scenes and um love the kind of personal aspects of like you know brands but I know people are always like what should I post like am I boring like do people care about this and you'd be surprised like anybody listening like you would be surprised about how much people do care about the things that you actually are like wow that's so boring I can't believe you care about that totally oh my god and you know what makes me feel better about that like showing some of my boring life or what I think is boring is like I think of the people who I love to follow and I just we're like such boyers like we like to see what are they eating? What does their day look like? Like do they feel overwhelmed like me? Are they sitting in this corner baldled up crying too or no? Or is it just me? And that's actually what makes like being like, you know, I'm going to use the word influencer like, you know, with air quotes because I think it's more about being like a person of influence like in and in your business, especially now personal brands are like more important than ever. So, it's like we were just talking before about our mutual friend Marina Middleton. Like I always sees Marina because like she has all these hats and she's always like talking about like, you know, her hats and like where she's going and like all this stuff. But it's like I'm actually so fascinated by it. Like I'm always like love the hat. Like what's the scoop? Where are you going? Like you know, oh you're in Austin this week. more about the hat. Yeah. Where'd you get the hat? How'd you get it in the bag? Um, but like you become part of people's lives, right? And then you start to like want to learn more about them. And then as people learn more about you, they don't only connect with the things that you sell, they connect with who you are. And because more than ever, we have more choice, right? So it's like someone can join Lori your mastermind or they could join someone else's mastermind. They could buy Glossy or they could buy like another electrolyte pack or whatever. They shouldn't. They should buy Glossy. But like you know what makes people want to buy is like the person behind it and then eventually you know they make the commitment. So I think that's something that I think people really undervalue and underutilize on social is that that personal brand piece is is way bigger than I think people realize. So a lot of people are probably listening right now and they are in that struggle of like what do I even show like how do I start to come up with ideas like where does one start? So I would say like success leaves clues. I know people use this for fitness all the time and I take all fitness um sayings and I make them social media sayings. So come with me on this journey. But you have to try things like you have to see what resonates with people. So I'll give you an example like personally on my social. I love to give people unsolicited advice as you know. I love to tell people social media tips. People do not want social media tips from me and I'm like this is devastating. I just want to tell you guys what to do. But they love when I'm at an event. They love when I'm doing some speaking. They love when I'm doing something in the community. Um, I get way more engagement from that. So, success leaves clues. I see that. I see I get better inquiries. I see I get like more like leads, more conversations. So, when I'm doing those things, I can still infuse social media tips. I can still kind of show and tell a little, but I really see what people are looking for. And I think that takes trial and error. It's going to take you posting something that's not going to land. And it might land with one person and that one person might hire you and that might be worth it. But it's really about like I think just getting started and a little bit of messy action. And I think especially with personal brand pieces like no matter what you're selling like we we want to see the behind the scenes. So I think it's also like a bit of mindset work you have to do about like you know don't call yourself boring. Like you're not boring. People want to see your oatmeal. You know people you Lauri I was so excited to see your little isoggenics packages come in. I'm like great. summer summer prep love it like you know but it's like you're just excited for people or like Laura you posted the other day about your podcast studio and I responded back and I was like Laura this was in 37 seconds that was too fast for me to have messaged you but it's like we're curious right and so yeah I think it's really about just trying and trying things and seeing what people respond to. Oh my god this whole journey for me like people probably think oh she's been on social forever. It's different all the time and like just trying to see what hits, what do people like? Like and honestly, Christina, it's like this sometimes the most mundane like, oh, I just turned my camera on and we were cheersing our coffee cups. Like people love it. Like it's Yeah, it's crazy. So, you do have to just try a ton of different things because what what will work for my audience definitely won't work for other people's audiences. So, you have to find find, you know, who's watching, what are they interested in your life? And the only way to do that is to try everything and not take it down. Like see what works, you know? Well, I was going to say this too, Lori, not to turn this around on you like cuz this is your podcast, but like you're an OG in this space, right? Like you've been at this for like you've been podcasting, I think you said eight years. Like, you know, you're on social. You, you know, you've had many iterations of Lori and like people have been coming with you on every step of your journey. Like I've been to events where I'll be standing next to someone or like I have friends who are like oh my gosh like I went to Bliss Project like so crazy you're friends with Lori Harter. I used to see her in these magazines like you know and I never even like I didn't know Lori like I knew you through Chris right and so it's so interesting how like you can evolve so many times on social people just want to be part of your journey no matter what it looks like and that's why social's so powerful. So tell me about, you know, what what you believe about social media and business, why we need it from your perspective. I think unfortunately there's like almost no way around it anymore. And and a few for a few reasons. Like one from a social proof perspective, like people are always looking to validate purchases. Like we're not buying things with no reviews. Like we're not like we're over this. This is like we're not taking risks over here because there's so many options. Um I just recently I was in Nashville. We just missed each other like I think by like a day. Um, so sad. So sad. And I was like on Broadway walking and there was an empty bar and you know how like every bar is full and then and then I was like, "Oh, that's an empty bar." And then I was like, "Well, it's an empty bar because it's an empty bar cuz like Exactly. nobody's in it." And until somebody's in it, it's going to continue to be an empty bar, which sounds like a like a philosophical thing. It's not. It's just there's no social proof. Like no one's going to go into that empty bar and be the first unless you're desperate. And so in the same way with social media, we want to see people buying your stuff. You want to see that, you know, like I always tell people, I'm like, you coached someone, get on your stories and talk about what you just coached about. Like you you just sold a product. Oh my gosh, I'm so excited I just sold this product. You know, there were 100 cases of gloves he sent sold today. Like, you know, like you you want to talk about these things because then people feel the FOMO of like, oh, that there's people who are buying that and I want to be a part of that. But if I think without social media, if that's not a priority of yours and lots of people like you know they grow businesses without social and and that's great. I' I've seen many of it but it there is a cap to it and I think like social media is unprecedented for us to be able to grow global businesses and actually like impact people in such big ways especially those of us who have like a mission on our hearts of like wanting to do something exciting. Okay. So tell me about the algorithms right now because things are always changing. It can get really overwhelming. People are always blaming the algorithm. First of all, what what algorithm attitude should we have and what do we need to know? Yeah. So, it's so funny. I always teach this webinar. I actually did it today and it's called algorithm proof. It's so funny that you asked this because it's the algorithm is essentially like for those of you who aren't super familiar with it. It's just basically like what classifies what you see, right? So, you know, Lori and I both see lots of dog videos. That's important to both of us, right? Um but then other people might see other things, right? And so you see kind of what you're looking for. Um, and actually when I did this session today, someone wrote, "Do not under any circumstance ever look up anything Pokémon related." And I was like, "That wasn't a priority of mine, but I understand that um, this could mess your algorithm up." Yes. So we see that. And so it's very easy for us when we're selling something online to be like, "Well, I'm not in the algorithm and people aren't seeing what I'm doing. People aren't aren't liking it." And that's not necessarily the case, right? Like often what I would say is algorithm proof behavior is us building community. It's us having conversations. It's us engaging with our super fans. It's us having like really like intentional content. It's seeing what's working. It's trying things. So, I think, you know, the algorithm is never going to be something that we escape and it's always going to change. But one of the biggest hacks I'll tell you like in my opinion on social is that when you see a new feature, use it. And that is a way to be algorithm proof in a way because you get rewarded for using it. So, a new feature um that's out right now, for example, is the trial reel feature. Have you tried it, Lori? Yeah. I'm I'm going to be using it a lot more, too. Yeah. And it actually would work great especially for your purposes of like what you sell like in both businesses. And so, trial reels, for those of you who might not be aware yet, are an opportunity for you to post like, you know, one, two, three, four, five reels. You can post them with the same message, but a different video. You could do different messages in a different video or the same video, like whatever it looks like. And you're testing, you know, with only nonfollowers. So, you're not burning your audience out. You're not posting things and and then, you know, people are like, "Oh my goodness, there's Lori again with her like her shake and then that one has a dog and then that one's a beachwalk." Like you and I actually saw someone do this. I got caught in someone's like in someone's algorithm on trial reels and I was like, "Wow, she said that already." And she's eating a burrito in her car and then the next one I saw she was on a walk and then on the other one she's in her computer and she was testing which one people would respond the best to. So, this is a great nude feature and you're seeing yourself like every time I do it, I get new followers. It's pumped to new people, which is what reals are all for, right? But we're being rewarded for it. So, I think when I think about like algorithm proof and and like what you should be doing, it's really about like trying new things and then and really focusing on your existing community and how you can nurture them. So, good. What are some underrated social media strategies? I think one of the biggest one to be honest, Lori, is talking with your followers. And I know that sounds so basic. Uh you were probably looking for me to like save some lives over here, but it's it's incredible to me how many people post and then never communicate with anybody and then they're looking for some kind of money from people like and it's it's in the like the fortune's in the follow-up, right? Like the fortune's in the conversation. So I think it's really about like you know getting into DMs with people, commenting on the stories of the people that you're looking to sell to or that you're looking to connect with. really doing that engagement where you're engaging on stuff because that that is like one of the most underrated pieces. The other thing is and this is maybe I'm gonna say an overrated thing that I think people kind of go too ham on is this like multiplatform needing to be everywhere like Alex Hermosi who we almost met in Orlando. We were so close to meeting Alex Herozi. So I mean we were 10 feet away so we basically met him. We're basically most like um I love how Jackie was like, "Go pitch him on the pod." Um but yeah, like you know, Alex Heroszi is a great example of that. He's everywhere. In my experience, the businesses I'm working with don't have an Alex Herozized team and so they're like, you know, hustling around like posting on TikTok, posting on LinkedIn, you turning their LinkedIn into threads, then they're going on Instagram, like and then they're and they don't check any of their DMs. They're not actually connecting with any of the people they're connecting with. Like and so those are missed opportunities like where like missed opportunities for like relationship, missed opportunities for conversation. So that's one of the other pieces is I think people overdo it with the the amount of platforms they should be on. And my rule is always like find one or two you love being on and you're going to check and and like engage with and then go there. Like if you don't think you're ever going to check your LinkedIn, don't go on LinkedIn. I couldn't agree more. Like even mentally with bandwidth, like how you show up. If you're exhausted from all the platforms, you're not going to create anything good. Like you're just not. And the platforms are so uniquely different that like, you know, right now I'm totally all Instagram for the most part. Like I'll repost on Tik Tok, which I'm not getting past like the, you know, tiny amounts of views because I'm not on there because I'm not putting my time and energy there. But that's okay because I really feel like right now I'm reaching a lot of people through Instagram and through the podcast is my other major modality of reaching people. And so it takes a while to like dial that in and decide. But it really is like which one which one do you just enjoy more? Which one are you socially on? Because when you're socially on it, you're learning the whole time. So at least and I'm not saying like, oh, you can doom scroll and you're learning, but my doom scrolls do bring a lot of learnings. Totally. And probably why your Tik Tok isn't like being as as like successful as what you're looking for is because you're probably not making Tik Tok timely content, right? Like you're not making content for Tik Tok. So yeah, they don't like when we're making content like that. Like they want content that's specifically for platforms, which is why we're seeing like Tik Tok's like a few weeks ahead of Instagram. And then you'll see the Tik Tok sounds make it to Instagram. They're faster now. Um and and but people will leave their watermarks on. You leave your watermarks on, you're done. like you know so it's there's all these like little things that you need to like keep in mind but like even I see this so much with LinkedIn like so many people are like so I love LinkedIn as a platform it's great for my clients but people don't like the platform they think it's broy I'm like they'll go on it like go on Instagram like DM people over there like instead of spending so much time like hunting for something like build community and really like try to like rally people around what it is that you're doing now because you have people who are excited about you like wherever you you're spending your You're such a huge community builder. How like did you build your community first on social or were you more in person? Like you're able to fill events really quickly which is not normal out in the world. Why do you think that is? How do how do you build community yourself? Yeah. So I think one of the things I will say is that often people start businesses your first customers are people you know. like usually, you know, they're your like you your friends or your family or whatever. And and my first customers were people I knew. And I think I treated those people like such gold that like they made referrals for me. And that's always been my way of business. Like I really want my customers to feel like they're 12 out of 10 in my eyes. Probably a little like too much. And then and then now I'm like, you know, and now I'm like I need a little bit of separation. Like I need a moment. Um but it's like you you really just like pour into them and and that has been kind of our approach really since the beginning. So, I had a really good community from there of like kind of my network, but since then, I would say I've been building kind of alongside my community at the same time. And Lori, that's something you say all the time and I always quote it on my own podcast. So, it's like the people you come up with. Like that's been more important to me than, you know, going to an event and being like, I need to like jam with the speakers, you know, like that's who I like want to connect with. It's like the people who have been in my kind of come up have been really helpful. And I think part of why our events I think have been so successful is is there isn't much like we have lots of great stuff in Canada. There aren't a lot of entrepreneurial events for women. And so that has been like a really huge advantage for us. But we've also really leaned into like really like overserving like really like how can we add value to these people over and over again like thinking about their experience thinking about where they're at like and really like over trying to overd deliver all the time. And a huge thing for me Lori and I know this is something that's been huge for you too is partnerships. like finding people who are like in my space and being like how can I add the most freaking value ever to you and like how can we get you what exactly what you want like even before we started this you're like how's this a slam dunk like I ask that all the time like how do we make this like something great for you so that's been kind of the approach that we've taken for community oh I love that okay let's talk about small businesses who are you know maybe just starting out or maybe they are in like year three to five but small according to you comparatively to these people who have a ton of money to be able to spend on social media. How do they compete online? Yeah, those that is where I say like that's not what I would do. Like I wouldn't try to compete too um too tough. Like something that I notice a lot and this is comes up all in discovery calls. I'll meet someone and they'll say to me, "Hey, like you know it's about to be Christmas time and I want to run a ton of ads." And I'm like, this is the worst time to run ads because you're competing with Pepsi or you're you're competing with other people who have the money who are going to who are going to overload it. And so that's actually when I think you lean into your community, right? So that's when I think you go harder on your affiliate programs. I think that's when you go harder on your conversations with people. I think that's when you go harder with your local events. Like those types of things are the things that I think really make a big difference when you are a smaller business. Popups, like how do you how do you get in front of more people? And I think people really underestimate that sometimes too is the like obviously I'm like super into social. I think everyone should be on social but the in-person stuff is magic. And when you can get people in person talking about what you're doing, you meet the founder, you have a good conversation, that stuff is like that's actually the stuff that really grew our business was like going into rooms and like meeting people and being like, "Hey, I solved this problem and I'm not like going to try to sell you on it, but like let me just pour into you or like try my product or like experience this." and and people are so excited about it. And so I think yeah, if I was to say like, okay, like what like what would I do if I was like a small business and you know, especially at different times of year when big businesses are really flourishing, I would get grassroots and really get into my community and and start to build build more community. So for people who are I feel like there's like this north star that we're always trying to like reach like no matter what size audience you have you're always like oh god if I you know had 10,000 followers that's when my business would take off. If I had 20,000 100,000 a million like how do you make whatever community you have really valuable and how do you realize like whatever community you have is valuable. So, it's funny. I I've been victim of this too, right? Where I think everyone is. You get to the 5K, you're like, "Oh, like 5K isn't enough and like now I want 10." And it's like, you know, it grows and grows and grows and then I see people who have 100K and they have really crappy audiences like who aren't buying from them either, right? So, it's interesting because I think that isn't shouldn't of course it's vanity metric, but it shouldn't be what we're chasing. And I have clients who, you know, have had 500 followers, who have had 10K launches, and, you know, are able to sell like huge products because they have a lot of trust from their audience. So, if you're in a season like I it's hard. It's hard when you're seeing like comparison. And I would encourage people like use that mute button. If you're feeling like overwhelmed by people or people are like triggering you, like use the mute button. But I would say like really what you should be focusing on is like service. like how do you just add value over and over and over again? Because then by the time you've added value, people are are you're the first person everyone thinks of for everything. And I think for us, like that's been such a key piece has been like like and I I've told this story before, Lori, and obviously not on this podcast, but the way that like we grew our business was actually through Fast Foundations. And the way that we did it was we went in there and we were like, "Hey, we just started our business, but we're like little social media experts." And um here is a calendar link. book a link like a 20-minute call and I'd love to just give you some feedback about your social and people would come on these calls and obviously there's different seasons like I couldn't do that now but like that was the season then and that was great and people would come on these calls and I would be like hey like I took a look at your profile that took me 2 minutes like I I can spot things I'd be like here's three pieces of feedback three things you can implement like kind of all the best keep in touch I'm like rooting for you kind of thing and every time they'd be like are you going to send me a package after this are you going to pitch are you and I'd be like no I'm not going to pitch like I'm just like I just wanted to serve and that turned into so many referrals. I still get referrals from that room and that community and and that like task like four years later. And so I think like really like how can you just be of service to other people in a way that feels good for you that you're not, you know, feeling like over like loaded or burnt out. I think that is like kind of the what I would wait on if you're like looking for a north star. It's like how can you serve the most amount of people? What are some of the main struggles that people when they come to you have? I would say that one of the biggest ones is like I do not know what to post. Like I'm like I'm boring and like I don't know what to post and what do I post about my business or I'm stressed about that. That's like one of the major ones. And the second one is I'm posting like 24/7 and I'm seeing no results. The mix up there I think is like when people are are too scared to post is they're not thinking enough about like what their ideal clients are asking them. And and that this is the tip I give everybody is have a note on your phone and anytime anyone asks you a question like in a discovery call at a meeting or anything like put that down so that you can literally use their words to make content. So like right before this you gave me some early stage advice and I was like you actually should do a podcast on that and I've had that with Chris where like you we've done a coaching call and afterwards I text him and I'm like here's something we talked about that I actually think people need to hear and like here's some notes kind of thing, right? So that is one piece and then I think like on the I'm posting every day and nothing's working. It's better not to post every day if nothing's working and it's better to post just a few times a week and and really like kind of go in on it. But like see what can work. Like what is the thing that people actually respond to and like sometimes it's stories and sometimes it's reals and sometimes it's it's you know you're having just a messaging problem and people aren't aligning with your messaging. Like there's so many little things you can tweak. I think people really like overdo it sometimes and then are super burnt out. Mhm. And it goes back to the the trial and error that you talked about. Like man, you do have to try a lot. Like yes, if it if it's not working, you're kind of like go in and try to figure out some things that are working, but sometimes you have to throw a ton of stuff out there to be like, does any of this work? Like yeah, social is just trial and error and trial and error. And what did work in the past may not work in the future? Like right now it's working to like put things over B-roll, like messaging things over B-roll. Do we know if this will last long? We have no idea. But I Yeah, I said that in the session I did today. I was like, you guys are living in unprecedented times where people want to watch you drink a coffee and with some text. Like this is time. Take this moment to grow your audience. But Lori, I know part of your like growth strategy when you were growing your um your business, your original business, and it was Instagram lives. Yeah. Or Facebook lives. Facebook lives. Yeah. Facebook lives. Those don't have the same impact as they did. No. No. And so it's like I like love that that worked for you now or then probably wouldn't work for you now. Oh my god. We used to be able to get tens of thousands of people on and I just took took it for granted. I was just like, "Oh, well she had a hundred thousand on and I only had 10,000 on." And I'm like, "Wow, those were the days." But it but isn't that so funny though? like like from a perspective like thought like it's like we are always looking to other people to be like the star or like the you know the model and like even I think about this with events like I'll be like oh like you know it took us like 3 weeks to sell those 120 tickets like that's annoying cuz that person they opened their text list and they were able to sell those tickets like that and it's like what do we need to do to be like that and instead of thinking like that like learning from what we can and being like that's an interesting model or like I can steal this and with like love and you know but this doesn't work for me or or whatever. And and really also celebrating the fact that there's someone trying to fill A-50 person room. Totally. Like and that's it's tough. It is hard. Comparison is just because there's a you know we're in so many rooms, you and I. Like I know we both love events. We put on events and it's so easy to compare yourself to other people. And those rooms are important, right? Because they also give you a bar. Like they they help you set your bar higher. So, it's it's like a really How do you kind of dance between your version of like seeing the big things and what people are doing, but then understanding where you're at? Yeah. Honestly, and this is something I think has been such mindset work is that I'm not a naturally competitive person. Like, I'm one of those people that like I see something and I'm like, "Oh, me too. Wow." Like that's always been kind of my approach is like I'm like I'll see people have success. I always there's somebody from the elite mastermind last year who who does like so well and I remember just being like oh my goodness if she can do that well with this product and what she has is genius like the sky is the limit and I remember going to her and being kind of like yeah like you know it's just like you have such a good niche and I don't have that good of a niche and like and she was like yep uh you do have that good of a niche you're just like not doing it right and I was like oh because it's so easy for us to like have all these factors to blame. But what it was was like I'm Yeah, you're right. I'm not I'm not throwing this money into ads. I'm not building these funnels. I'm not doing these things that you're doing. And so it's not even a comparison. Like we're not doing the same thing. But instead, I just like look at those people and I'm like, "Wow." Like if that's possible for her, it's possible for me, too. And that's awesome. And I think that's I don't know. I think that's so important. And also rooms that I think and you do such a great job of creating these rooms, Lauria. like where that's the spirit is like and that was something I really loved about you know doing fast foundations but also like other rooms I've been in the elite everything is like there is a different energy around being somebody to be like hey I'm struggling with that and then there's a payment link or being like hey I'm struggling with that and people are like let me jump on the phone with you and walk you through that so and it's like somebody from the elite mastermind I'm not even in it this year she messaged me and she was like I'm doing a pivot with my podcast like any chance we can chat on the phone can't wait to return the favor I'm like you don't need to return the favor it'll come when it comes like but I think it's just like really being in that mindset of like generosity and also like service but then also looking to those people and being willing to receive from them and I think sometimes that's the the hardest part. Yeah, it's that is it is a like a personality trait you have to really develop and you also have to trust because not everyone is going to return the favor. You know what I mean? And you have to give without expecting other people to return the favor. And like how do you how do you keep a good attitude around that knowing some people just aren't they're not going to be there for you when you need them? I think having a trusted circle of people that you could be like, "Oo, that that was a goblin situation. That one was tough. That one was tough." Um because I've been in that situation, Lori, before where especially like I think something that I've been really working on in business and maybe this will resonate with people which is why I want to share it is that I'm definitely going to be somebody's villain, you know, where it's like and that's something that's so hard for me and like in this in this season of like being pregnant and I was asleep for essentially four months like I hibernated like a bear. Like I rescheduled so many things and I had somebody be like tell somebody else be like um Christina like rescheduled this twice. Definitely not somebody I would want to like do business with and I was like oh then she's just never going to be somebody that I could connect with because like if someone reschedled something twice and told me they had like life circumstances I'd be like praying for you like you know and that's just like that's just my that's my attitude that's not hers but I think knowing that like Ren Bashard kind of talked about this the dinner series which is like which by the way it feels like I go everywhere you go. Um, but yeah, they got I know my break is really hard. This has been a hard year so far. Hard. It's been hard for me. Yeah, separation anxiety. But Brendan talked about how like, you know, and I guess there's a religious aspect of this, but this idea of like your ROI already being calculated and it's like not to give with the expectation of return because at the end of the day like it's all it's all a wash, right? Like we can't take anything with us and all we can take with us is our like generosity. And like I would rather, you know, of every 10 good things I try to do, if five of them never returned, but like on my last day, people were like, "Christina was so generous or like that convers I've had people reach out to me and they they're like, "Hey, that conversation like shifted my whole perspective on business." Like, "Thank you so much." Like that could change generations like of families, right? It's like I think just being really open to the fact that yeah, sometimes people can be goblins and they don't meet you where you're at and and the expectation you have of them. But I I just believe that all that stuff like kind of works itself out. Define a goblin. Goblin. Uh I I could define a goblin. It's just it's probably like uh like a an offcam sitch, but no, it's I think I but I think you need to have people that you can be like that one was freaking And I'm sure you Lori like you know you're someone like that for me that I can go to and be like hey I had this weird situation and I'm not sure how to handle it like and you need people to be able to do that. Yeah about it and yeah we're going to call them goblins and then we'll be done. Then we'll be we'll be good after that. That is so vital to have your people to like talk to about all of the different types of people that you work with because and here's another weird thing is like sometimes people are not just how you are not a you know a villain in life but you're going to be someone's villain. Their energy is just not going to match ours. So they're going to like eternally be a villain to us and we're going to eternally be a villain to them. And there's no way to figure that out than to figure it out because when you are in business like you you can attract all different types of people especially if you haven't fully stepped into you know like your your true authentic self which in the beginning of business for me I attracted a lot more people that were not for me because I didn't know how to show up online authentically yet. Like there were big parts of me I was hiding. I remember Christina like and this is just an example for everyone but I used to like not swear at all in the beginning because of I was just so worried about what people would think and I started doing that I had a lot of people be like you're so unclassy like I'm not going to listen to you anymore like your book was awful because you had to use these swear words like just so many things like that and I was like okay I'm going to let that be okay because here's why do I need to swear publicly absolutely not but I never wanted to be someone so far different publicly than I am actually when they meet me. And also, if you're going to be at an event with me for three days, the real me is going to come out. And so, I don't want you to get to have spent a lot of money to get in a room with me and have your expectation be completely different. So, like even with sales script and things, I'm like, you got to show who you are from the beginning because they're going to find out. like and I don't think I'm oversharing by saying this but I know when we were at the lake house we had this conversation about I had asked you something about this about like almost like repelling people a little because I had said to you like some this is something I'm struggling with this like you know my villain era of people like being like can we have coffee and me being in like I'm in a totally different season of business than I was four years ago and my schedule's like jam-packed and I actually can't like it's and then it's not coming from like AI think I'm better than anyone. And it's not coming from my I think my time is more valuable than anybody's. It's like I'm I'm jam-packed and and I don't want to say to you, "Are you free in July?" Like, and so that and that's tough. And so I remember kind of asking you about that and you were like, "Well, I'm actually in the season where I don't even attract that anymore." Like I don't attract that like and I'm like aspiring to to that season. But I think those boundaries are so important and and and once you have your people, you know, always room for new people to come in and and new opportunities and connections, but I think the hard thing with business and I think Lori, like I'm sure you you appreciate this, like business friends and and real friends, there's such a merger there. And it's tough because not everyone's meant to be like school. Not everyone's meant to be your friend. And so it's like you can do business with people and you can make referrals with people and you can have great conversations with people, but it doesn't mean you have to go to the spa on the weekend. And that is a really tough thing I think in business when we're all so relationship focused and Laura you attract you and Chris attract such like loving people that that's been such a lesson for me around like okay like I like I I'm not for everybody and I have to be okay if that person's not if they're unhappy that I'm not going to go for that coffee. Oh my god. I I used to have this so bad to the point where there was this group of women and they literally started to tell like clients or people because I owned I had owned a gym and they would start to like come to the workout sessions and they were so mad that I wasn't going to coffee and like drinking with them all the time or going like drinking on a Wednesday or whatever because I was just in a season which I was like you're in a season. And I was in a building season and also that's I I was super happily married and they were not just being honest like they were not happy and so when we go out they would flirt with guys and I was like that's not the season that I'm in like I I don't want this and they Chris was like I don't want this either. Yeah, you stop going with them. Um, he actually never said that, but I was just like, that is not for me. But they were so upset about it that they started like spreading rumors to all of my other gym members. Like it was absolutely insane. And I had to go through this year of like not talking bad about them and like sticking to like being the person that I knew who I was and sticking to my boundaries because it would have been really easy for me to say, "Oh my god, I'm so sorry you felt that way and please stop spreading rumors and I'll start going to wine with you and all whatever." That's kind of like the Midwest in me being like, "Let me just people please the [\h__\h] out of you so that we can the rumor can go away." And they didn't go away for an entire year. They like dragged me through the mud. It was really challenging. And then all of the people who, you know, had left ended up coming back like I think every single one of them and they were like, you know, it kind of showed the the type of people that they were like, you have to stick to your boundaries and your character and you you will come through. Um, I know this is such an important thing to talk about because this is where we lose people. Truly, that's where we lose people and they go back to doing things they don't love. Because as a woman, it is hard to be talked bad about and be the villain and have your reputation [\h__\h] on by other people when it feels very real. Feels very carry that for the year, you know, or for however long it lasts. And I think past the year, you know what I mean? Like that as you grew probably other communities that was like a piece of it for you. And I think as we grow businesses, this is like it's very challenging. And I think the online world especially is very small. Like people people think it's not. It is. And like you can I like you know people have reputations like there's lots of things that play there, right? Like I've been in masterminds where I've been in the same mastermind with people multiple times. Like we're in different rooms and I'll be like oh I know that person through this person or or whatever. And I think I think it's just really important as women for us to like also honor those boundaries in each other. Like when we see people setting boundaries and I'm like like even for you Lori like I joked about this when you came on my podcast and I was like Lori like I just want you on this [\h__\h] podcast and you were like I don't do podcasts before my events and I was like that's the only time I'm in Arizona is to see you and Chris but you and then when you came on it was like we had such a fabulous conversation. It's my most downloaded episode. People love the Lori. You beat Chris by like I think three downloads. So there's still time but so I can go live three more time or you're such a good wife. Um, but it's like I really like respected like I never once was like, "Wow, Lori." Like, you know, but I was like, "Oh, that's actually such a great boundary because I'm the person who before an event I'm like, "Oh, you guys want something from me? You're coming. Like, I should just do it because you've paid me." Or like, and that's where I think client boundaries are really tough. And what I kind of mentioned earlier like you know at the beginning there was definitely border lines for me around like friendship where I was like oh like and then these people are paying you so you do just like anything they want because they're paying you and that's a slippery slope as your business grows. Oh my gosh. And what what people aren't seeing because I know this will happen to you with your events or it already is is like you know there were also five other people who asked us to go grab a dinner or grab a coffee or another podcast and I'm like I actually can't talk to anyone before it. like I I need a day or two to go through the content like be in my own energy because you're about to be in other people's energy for three or four days straight. That stuff is vital because you will not have a sustainable business. You won't want to grow. and what you're you know even just by me if you watched me not set any boundaries and say yes to everything to you to everyone to all all of the things you would have a very different version of me on the other side I'd probably be bitching about people and be business is hard everybody wants a piece of you um good luck you know staying in business because you're going to be exhausted and burnt out because you give give give and that's absolutely not how I And it's like, if I want you, Christina, to be a really successful entrepreneur, I have to show you what boundaries look like or you'll never be able to do it. 100%. And honestly, I think that is like one of the greatest actually like lessons like as a friend mentor you've taught me is like and really seeing that and being able to be like, "Oh, like I actually I need that." And like even Lindsay, Lindsay is such a great example of this too where Lindsay's like very boundared. And I remember when I had her on my podcast, she had said something about how um about how like if people ask her to hang out or something, she she would maybe be like, "Come to my event." And I remember originally being like, "Oh, like I could never." And then now I do it and I but I do it with love. Like and when these people are at this event like you, I give them a lot of time. And like I always compliment you on that. I'm like, "Are you dead inside?" Like you like you are sitting here and this is your 85th photo and you haven't had a snack yet. And I'm like withering away right before my eyes. Are you trying to feed me and bring me? I know last time I brought you like the little sli sliders and you were like I'm I'm not going to have the sliders but thank you so much. But like I'm like wow are you not so tired and you're like no I'm just so honored that people are there and you wouldn't have that energy if like two days before you were like hustling. And so I think yeah I think it's just so important and as our communities grow and as our businesses grow like for anyone that's listening like I think like emulating some you don't need to be at a certain level to have boundaries. No. And I think that's a mistake people make. I think so too. I think I made them I think I made mine a little late, but now now that I like understand it now, it's a really big thing for me to teach women. Like I feel like we should dedicate a whole half a day to it with like female entrepreneurs because I think it's a major reason why we're burnt out. I think totally handle our workload, but we can't handle the like how to figure out what that line is because we don't want people to not like us. And it's just the craziest thing. I know that I I know that I had shared with you before like I'm not totally in that season anymore where I am that person for people because I think just once you so adopt that energy like people kind of know like oh okay she's kind of closed over in this area or I know where she's going to be open I know what she's going to do. So yeah, I'm excit I'm excited for you as you as you move forward too cuz you know you've got big events and you are like really in community and it's like figuring out a boundary within that like how do you be available but at certain times you know. Totally. Yeah. And I think different seasons bring different things for sure. So tell me about podcasting. Yeah. Also help people with podcasting. Yeah. What you think of podcasting as a platform and who should be doing it. Yeah. Honestly, I think anybody who one can do it consistently. That's the first thing is like that a lot of people launch podcast. I can't remember what the stat is, but it's like only a very certain amount of people get past episode like 10. Um it's Yeah. Yeah. Um it's so funny. I'm helping somebody launch a podcast right now and he's like, I know the stat and I'm never going to let like myself be part of this. And I was like, sure. I like Yeah. If that feels good for you, that's a good awareness, I guess. Um, but yeah, so I think podcasting is perfect for anybody who is really looking to like build authority in their niche if they have something that they love talking about. It's such an intimate way for people to really connect with you. Um, that's the kind of how I got into your world through Chris's podcast. You know, you listen to somebody, you like really binge listening. You're so into it. Uh, and then when it's time kind of for them to have an offer, it's it's a no-brainer because you're you're kind of part of their every day, right? They're listening to you on the school drop off and on the walk and and all of those things. I think if you have like a heart to educate and on like a heart for um really other people and and because it is a long game. It's hard to monetize and it's yeah and it's hard to like track monetization on it. But I think if you're interested in in really like kind of giving that service, giving that and building that authority, it's an amazing tool. I think also for people with high ticket sales, it's it's a really important thing. Like I think most of our really high ticket stuff has come through podcast or they found us at an event and then they started listening to the podcast. Like when I'm in a room at like a high ticket event that we have or a mastermind or something like that I ask you know who listens to the podcast it's like 90% of the room. Yeah. Because they you know for higher ticket sales they need that like hours and hours and hours with you. Here's us not knowing the stats, but it used to be it used to be like seven hours. This was probably five or six years ago this stat. So, it's probably even more now. But you had to spend seven hours with people, whether that was through social media short clips or that was through podcasting or whether that was in a room at an event, which makes sense why people can buy an event like a high ticket item right away is because they've spent so many hours with you just saturated in that one day. But when you think of it that way, you're going to you're going to gather those seven hours or 7 to 10, whatever it is now, a lot faster for them to spend money on you. So it was like seven hours before they would like buy purchase something for a certain like higher amount. So when I think of that, I'm always like, "Oh, that's why podcasting is like so priceless is because I can't tell you the amount of high ticket things that have changed my life that I've purchased because it was somebody that I followed podcasting big time." And even if you're a service based business too, like I've had it too where people come to my discovery calls and they're they've like listened to so many episodes and they like love my philosophy on social or like you know or podcasting or whatever. Um and it it's great. So kind of social proof and then people are like great like I I trust them like they're an authority in that space. Uh but I totally agree and I think especially because we have more choice than ever, right? Like we're seeing people online more than ever. Podcasting people are choosing you. Like when I'm like, "Okay, I'm going to go listen to a podcast. I'm going to go listen to Chris Laurier. I'm going to go listen to Lindsay. listen to Jasmine, whatever. I'll go and I'll be like, "This is the person I'm selecting." And that's something that's like very powerful in the noise of social where you're not actually really choosing people on social unless you're in a doom scroll, but um usually usually you're just you're you're given what you're given. Um and so I think that that's that's why it's such an incredible tool. Wow. Thanks for choosing. When you put it that way, that's that's pretty intense when you actually think about that. That's pretty awesome. Lori, you should I don't know how you would get this information, but actually I do. Maybe AI could help you with this, but like you should do like some kind of thing where you find out how many hours people have listened in total of your podcast. It's it's probably years. That's crazy. Like we're we've spent years together and like we're besties on that side, which is isn't podcasting crazy for that when people are like they know your whole life. Like I know people's whole life and I'm like oh you've never met me. That's right. So weird. Oh. And it's but it's like the same in reverse, you know what I mean? Like I've like even I have a friend who listens to your podcast. She's been listening for years and years. Like pre me knowing Chris and Lorie and she is like she'll be like, "Oh, like you know their dogs." And and and I was like, "Yeah, I've met their dogs." Like and she's like, "Yeah, like bonkers is like this." Like it's so cute. And I'm like, "Oh, that's so sweet." Like she probably listen gonna listen to she better. I'm gonna come after her. But um but like yeah, like it's so great. But then you know when it's time for people to make a choice on a purchase, you're top of mind, right? they they you've built so much no like and trust with them over the years and you really do I podcasting is one of those things um where they really really do know you like if you've been podcasting a long time you can't fake the funk like you you are yourself for the most part unless you're a very scripted podcaster which you can tell a lot of times scripted podcasters are like very niche like a marketing podcast or something like that but yeah if you're like a lifestyle business lifestyle podcaster like it's really hard to not talk about what's going on in your life and bring people along. So, you really do for the most part know the real person on that podcast. The trust level is like so high. So, tell me about what you do for podcasters. How do you help them? Yeah, so we help people launch and edit their podcast kind of long term. So, we have like a really good kind of like launch strategy and try to get people to rank. Um, and then from there we and we lead people through the whole launch. So it's like people have an idea, we take you from like I have an idea, I don't have a microphone to like you're a maven usually by the end of our our kind of six weeks launch and then ongoing kind of editing and we do show notes for folks and clips and and all that great stuff and help people kind of keep it alive so people can just like you know do the chatting and like do the stuff that comes really naturally to them but then they don't have to do any of the tech uh which is the dream. That is the dream and that is what changed my life. So I would not be consistent without a team. If you want to be in the long game for podcasting, I I believe one of the biggest reasons and what I hear from people that is uh that they drop off is because they don't they get lost in the techy part parts in the show notes and the posting. You can just show up to the mic. It's it's a totally different ballgame where that's just your job because that's probably your zone of genius. If you want to start a podcast, it's because you are a talker and someone who likes to talk about a lot of different things. Um so tell me about what you do for people in social media. The same thing on social side. We do done for you socials. So that's where we take you from like, you know, whether you're already posting and and we elevated or we can take you kind of from the beginning. We do full strategy. You know, we do all the video editing, all the reals, the captions, everything like that. And then we have another offer. It's called the social business club. Um, and basically what we do there is we coach people on how to do their own social. So if you're like in an early stage kind of season and you're like, "Oh, I'm like not sure how to do it." Um, we teach people how to do everything there themselves. So that this way, um, because I honestly I love when people do it themselves. I love doing my own social and because there's something really powerful about kind of being part of it and and really being able to sell that way and so yeah, we do live coaching and we give people templates and trending sounds and all of that every month. That is amazing. I love it. Um, where can we find you, follow you if we want to work with you? Yeah. Um, so yeah, you can come find me at Christina.bart. They spell my name with a K. Um, or at the social snippet. I'd love to hear what resonated with you from this episode because Lori, I love chatting with you and I think there's been so many things we've just chatted about and um would love to hear what resonated but you can also find me at the social.com and yeah any friend of Lor's is a friend of mine so can't wait and I don't know why I was going to be like send you some creepy people. Why do you have creepy creepy people on demand? I don't anymore. It was like year one or two I had so many creepy people but goblins so many goblins now I can't even think of one. Dang it. I can't even prank you. Okay. Um, but thank you guys so much for tuning in. Make sure you go follow Christina. I'm putting everything in the show notes so that you can go and check her out. And we have so many people that love her and work with her and love the agency. Um, and I've heard nothing but amazing things. So you guys go check it out. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.