We live in a day and age now where you can basically decide how you want to age and that is completely within the grasp of the majority of people. So if folks shift their mindset instead of secure to healthcare and instead they start looking at things differently where they're like hey listen my health is an investment then that's where you can actually start to pre-program the life that you really want. It's all the components that not only make people live to 100 or beyond, but also I believe it's the components that make you the most fulfilled in life. >> David, welcome to the podcast. We're so excited to have you on. >> Thank you. Thank you. Honored to be here. And so it means that you are being interviewed right now by myself on the Earn Your Happy podcast, but you're also getting my husband, Chris Harter. So, we're so excited to both be interviewing you just about, I think, all of the questions that so many entrepreneurs have. And Chris and I feel so lucky because you're our doctor and we get to ask you all these questions and have you, you know, pretty much on demand via text, which is is so blessed and so lucky that we get to do this. But now we're going to be answering questions for everybody, for the whole community. And these are things that we've been curious about, that we feel like have helped us thrive, that we feel like um we don't have fear around anymore. So, I can't wait to dive into this conversation. >> Yeah, it's been such a blessing actually having you be our concierge doctor. And if people don't know what a concierge doctor is, do you mind explaining that real quick? >> No, not at all. And and it's been a blessing to me. You guys are absolutely amazing people and I've learned so much from you and and just given so much to my life. So, thank you both truly. I appreciate that. >> We're we're we're on the better end of the stick. I mean, the way you've taken care of my health problems, second to none. >> Thank you. And so, concier physician, you know, the the whole idea behind it is for really for folks who don't want to wait when they don't want to actually go and partake in the same mess that is the the regular health care system. They want instead more of a approach that's focused on them and their family. >> Yeah. So, what happens because it's like a front of the line pass for the best in medical care, right? What happens when someone hears that? They're like, "Wait, that's not fair. How do how do you answer that?" >> Well, you know, the the unfortunate truth is the the way the health care system is set up is it's sick care. It's not healthcare. M >> and we're really at this place right now where that's been exposed quite a bit just with ever since the pandemic and things things are folks are looking at healthcare really differently and what's already beginning to happen is you know people are beginning to see that if they instead of just relying on their their health insurance or you know insurance from an employer whatever it is if they actually go and invest in their health and they invest in themselves then that really pays dividends in the Yeah, that makes sense. So, let's talk about the state of health when it comes to entrepreneurs because that's really what these two shows are focused on, right? Everyone chasing their dreams and they're big dreamers, they're hard charging. Would you say the state of the average entrepreneurs's health is better today because of technology and advancements and how quickly information travels? Or is it worse because everybody's out there building the biggest business they can and everyone wants to be an entrepreneur and everyone's hard charging and everyone has comparisonitis. Are we healthier or less healthier today in general? >> I would say that it's actually less healthy and here's the reason why there's a lot of misinformation out there. So I take exclus I take care of exclusively entrepreneurs. My entire practice it's it's built built around entrepreneurs. So I I understand this community very well. I'm an entrepreneur myself. And the reality of the situation is that entrepreneurs, we always want to get to the the solution and we want to get there as fast as we possibly can. And and so we we take that information, we have a tendency to go a different road usually. And so the issue becomes is the information that that is currently being put out to people, it always isn't the best information because a lot of times you have folks that they're following a different agenda. They're marketing things. they're being entrepreneurs themselves and there's usually an affiliate deal on the other side of that. >> And so what happens is because we want a result and we want it relatively quickly, then folks take shortcuts >> based off of misinformation. >> So how quickly are you seeing bad advice being spread? And how how on earth are we supposed to know if it's legit or not? >> Yeah, it's a good question. How do you know? Right. Sometimes like I'll I'll see something on Instagram or something. I'll be like, "Wait a minute, that that should do this too good to be true." I think the biggest thing really is don't outsmart your common sense. If something seems too good to be true, it probably actually is. >> You know, it's it's almost like the the you think of like the the 1800s like cowboy days, the traveling road show of the snake oil salesman that's like mixing up the elixir for whatever the problem you happen to have. >> That's all over social media right now. >> You mentioned the word affiliate. Mhm. >> There's a lot of people out there posing as doctors or they are doctors or they build a great big brand around, hey, look at me. I'm a medical expert. >> Yeah. >> And they're giving this advice and what we don't know on the other end is that they have an affiliate deal or they own part of that company. >> What level of danger does that play in the advice that we seem to be spreading out there as being quote unquote popular advice? And can you think of any examples where you're like that is some real [\h__\h] advice and I know the person's getting paid on the other side. So um uh legally legally if if a physician has if a boardcertified physician has medical interest in a company they have to disclose that. >> Now the issue becomes the rise of the healthc care influencer which are folks that are not physicians. A lot of them call themselves biohackers and things like that. I personally call them bioquackers and they don't have to disclose a damn thing. And so instead they lead folks down these down down these paths, right? Um where that then they're making millions on affiliate deals on the other side and the consumer is none to the wiser. That is particularly dangerous because you know even if they have good intentions, let's pretend that they have good intentions then you know on the other side of that they don't know what they don't know and that's where problems can really arise. And you mentioned they might even have good intentions, but what about people that are just trying to pedal stuff to make a buck? >> Oh, sure. There's plenty. >> Can you think of some of those products or some of those trends or some of that advice that you've seen going around? You're like, that is flat out not true. Yeah. >> And that's been that's being driven by greed. >> Mhm. Absolutely. So, one a popular one right now and there's actually it's it's all over social media. It's not not you know uh breaking news or anything but like so there's this u salt company that they were found to have um a bunch of they were saying those trace minerals in these salts so it's healthier. Well there's actually all these heavy metals in the salt that they were selling. Right. So this was a few months ago I had a bunch of patients that were asking this question. They're like I'm hearing about the salt. I heard if you drink salt water in the morning you know it it's it's just better for you and what have you. Should I be spending, you know, 20 bucks on this bag of salt? I was like, why would you do that? So, I mean, salt, it's just sodium chloride. Salt is salt, you know, and so here you had influencers that were promoting the salt. Here, take this. If you have a headache, you know, headaches are really just caused by dehydration. You need some headaches are caused by tons of different things, >> you know. So, there's all this misinformation surrounding it. And now you're seeing on the other side of that folks actually, you know, having issues because of that misinformation. So what are some really good things that we should be doing um in your personal opinion? >> So you know when we start looking at what things can folks actually start make happen right now >> then there really is a methodology to it. >> So we live in a society myself included where we want quick wins. >> And the reality is is when you get one quick win you just want to move on to the next quick win. So instead of doing that, if we actually look at life a little bit differently and say, well, we want to live for as long as we can, for as well as we can and and do that for an extended period of time, then the question becomes, well, is there anyone doing that already? And there is. And this is, you know, blue zones, blue zones are places in the world where you have the highest number of centinarians that there are. >> Love a blue zone. >> Yeah. And so, you know, these they're they're spread throughout the country. One of them's here in California. You have Greece, Japan, Italy, >> Costa Rica, I believe. >> Yep. Yep. >> Costa Rica. And so all these areas, they all have some things that are in common. And if you look at the common things is they all eat relatively clean. So it's lean meats and fish, fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, things like that. They exercise and it's not just, you know, pumping weights in a gym. Most of these areas are hilly. So they're walking up and down hills and things like that. >> They have high quality relationships. all those areas, they're usually smaller net communities, >> purpose. >> So there's there's it's purpose driven. They actually get to know, you know, know people and know them well, which is something that in this day and age, even though we all have cell phones and everything, it's like we're more disconnected more now than ever. >> So huge, so important. >> Yeah. And so when you start looking at these components of like, well, I live in Phoenix, you know, I'm not going to just move off to Sardinia, right? So it's like >> tempting. >> Yeah. Tempting, right? But it's if wouldn't that be cool if you could take these same components and actually create your own blue zone for yourself no matter where you are >> and drastically make an improvement in your health. >> So we don't have to live in those places to potentially try to reach 100 or over. >> Yeah. I'm I'm so I know you and I have chatted about this before, but I'm so passionate about the the ideas behind blue zones because it's all the components that not only make people live to 100 or beyond, but also I believe it's the components that make you the most fulfilled in life with, you know, I know that you've watched some of the Netflix documentary on it and it's just like the purpose that everyone has and I think that that those are all things that people aren't looking at that also make you live a really long time is like the the quality of your relationships. How if you feel important in the world and important to your community, if you feel like you have that role. >> But now I want to talk more advanced cuz if people just did that, great. They're going to be 90% of the way there. But we also know that there's some really modern technology that you can use to enhance the already good habits. And I really want you to speak to this. Somebody once told me, "Hey, if you take all these peptides and you take all this stuff on top of a unhealthy body and unhealthy diet with no exercise, you're not really helping anything." So, what are some more advanced things beyond eating right and exercising, having good community that really have turned the tables in a good way for people? I want you to consider something. Consider that we live in a day and age now, this is 100% true, where you can basically decide how you want to age. So, you and I mentioned, we were talking about this before where it's like, let's say, let's say you decide where, you know, like, you know what, when I'm 90 years old, I want to run the Boston Marathon when I'm 90 years old. It's like, great. Okay. So, if >> I probably my brother does. >> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Nick Nick would, right? So, so like if you're in your 40s now, then it's like, okay, if that's a target for you, we can actually start planning that now so we can reverse engineer that. And that is completely within the grasp of the majority of people. Which if you stop and you think about that for a second, maybe even like five years ago, six years ago, that was something that like you had to be like a big celebrity, a movie star, a senator, something like that. So when if folks shift their mindset instead of secure to healthcare and instead they start looking at things differently where they're like, hey, listen, my my health is an investment. My my body and my mental health is an investment. that's what's going to carry me out throughout my all my days. Then that's where you can actually start to pre-program the life that you really want. >> Okay, I'm going to give you a few things and I want you to say fad or what's what's the negative thing we could call it? How about fad? >> Smash or pass. Ready? All right, we're going to play smash or pass. NAD. Smash or pass? >> Smash. Smash. But it depends the way that you take it. So for the longest time, I was on the NMN train. So NMN and NAD, it's kind of like the difference between gasoline and exhaust. Okay? Only in this case, the exhaust actually does something. So the NMN would be the gas, the ND would be the exhaust. NMN works great if you're going to do it orly. Works really well for that. However, if the if you really want bang for your buck, um, subcutaneous NAD, this is not medical advice. Subcutaneous NAD. Oh man, like that once you start doing it a couple times, >> a lot of people don't know what that is. Would you explain? >> Yeah. So, NAD is a component that's within our uh the mitochondria of our cells that once we hit about 35 or so, those levels slowly start to drop over time. And it's essentially the powerhouse of of each one of our cells. So, it's crazy to think that you can actually take a substance that that increases like intracellular power on a regular basis that you that you could do this. So, I'll do it three times a week, particularly if it's like, you know, it's going to be a big day or something like that where it's like, man, I got to really show up. And it's not like caffeine where you take it, all of a sudden you're just jolted. It's this kind of slow start to it that just has a hang time of about 7 8 hours, slowly drifts away. It also works well for longevity. So, it's not just an energy kick or something. It's our body makes this anyway. It's just we we slowly as we age this slowly starts to dwindle over time. >> And you said subq so people don't know that means you're injecting it into you pull out your fat on your stomach inject it in there >> just under the surface of the skin. It's relatively painless. >> So would somebody wake up and inject NAD every single day? >> I usually say three times a week Monday, Wednesday, Friday because it has a hang time to it. >> Okay. So it can go for a couple days. Yeah. >> Okay. Awesome. Smash or pass. Next one. Testosterone and hormones for men and women. >> Yeah. Smash completely. Absolutely. Similarly, as we age, our hormone levels start to drop. Variety of hormones, but testosterone in this case, it kind of makes sense that it would, particularly for men, if you think about it. So, um, testosterone does a ton of things for men, uh, and women. But, but I mean, for men, it's like, you know, muscle mass, libido, mental clarity, all these things. It would make sense that we would be pre-programmed by God, if you will, that you would slowly have testosterone levels drop over time because as that happens, you would want libido to drop so that there would be less sexual interest because you're getting older and may not be around to father the children that you that you made, right? So, it's pre-programmed within us that testosterone levels would drop. What's amazing is that they're dropping way faster than they should. >> And we don't know exactly why. Is it all of the hydrocarbons in our food? Is it all of the hormones that have been pumped into our food supply over the years? You know, is it years of hungry man microwave dinners and whatever the hell was in that? Who knows? >> But hormone levels are dropping faster in men. Like we're talking sometimes even in their 20s. and it lends to the obesity ep epidemic and all these other things and such. So yes, 100%. If a guy is feeling like they're mentally sluggish, they're gaining weight no matter what they do, there's like a lack of mental clarity that's there, so forth and so on, by all means got to get their testosterone checked and go to a reputable place because there's too many TRT clinics that are just writing a prescription for testosterone when when guys don't need it or they're giving them too much. >> Explain that. Um, what's the difference between going into one of these clinics with really good marketing and there's a doctor standing there and he says, "Hey, man. I'm going to take your labs and I'm going to prescribe testosterone." I would think like, "Hey, that's a good thing. This guy's a doctor. Explain what you mean by the danger of just walking into some of these places." >> Yeah. So, there's a lot of these TRT clinics that it's a, you know, it's an entrepreneur that owns it and they'll they'll hire, you know, a PA, a nurse practitioner, a doctor, whatever to to go and like staff it essentially. and how someone can tell. So, here's a lipmus test for any guy who's listening that they walked into one of these places. If they just max try to max somebody out on testosterone, they instantly put them on a estrogen blocker and they say, "Okay, here here you go and we'll see you in a couple months or they or it's one of these places that's like just come back once a week and we'll give you the injection." Any of those places, you need to stop and go, "Hey, wait a minute. we need to look at things a little closer because that's just a m it's a cookie cutter approach instead of precision TRT which is really what a man needs. >> So tell me about for women because I think so many women this is a new idea for people among a lot of the women I know and my friends and super high achievers they are all about it. They're so excited about it because um you know with pmenopause which is so crazy. It can start in your 30s like that is insane to me. But so many women report like not having drive anymore just like they think they're losing motivation or life motivation and so much of it is hormones. So what does that look like for women with testosterone? >> Yeah. So you know particularly um when there's like a drop in libido. It's kind of like that's one of the the key signs. So when there's a drop in libido or maybe adding some body fat that they didn't wanted despite, you know, exercise and diet and trying to keep things tight and everything, those are all little things that start to show up. So both both men and women have testosterone. Both men and women have estrogen, just in different quantities. >> So for women, the the amount of testosterone nowhere near that of what a man has naturally. And if it's going to be augmented and optimized also same very very small amounts because it's incredibly potent. >> But once that optimization takes place then that's when you start seeing libido come back mental focus usually more energetic easier to add muscle mass etc. So as a woman as is starting to approach menopause then that need may be more so to actually do that and particularly with female entrepreneurs. So female entrepreneurs it's it's tough like female entrepreneurs have a really hard time. You consider that entrepreneurship overall is very much male-dominated. So for a female entrepreneur to show up and be successful, it's not only do they have to, you know, conquer all the things that go along with entrepreneurship and be willing to put out all the fires every day, but they're doing it in a field that's actually like more balanced against them. So think about how exhausting that is. Like entrepreneurship is the most stressful thing that there is. >> I mean, I feel it. >> It's the most stressful thing that there is. So for a for a woman to be successful in the entrepreneur game, it's the amount of stress that is on them particularly, it's it's even higher. >> And stress, if we had to if we had to pick one thing, if you to say, hey, what's what's the main thing that is that can really actually like do it all is stress. It's it ages us faster. It is the origin of so many diseases, anxiety, depression, sleepless nights, >> you name it, stress eating, the list goes on. >> So, it's the when you go down the entrepreneurial road especially, and this is the reason why I love working with entrepreneur community is because it is a very unique it's a very unique comm community with a very unique set of stressors that it's just different than someone who has a guaranteed paycheck. M I have more smasher passes. Go for it. >> Okay. Um creatine. >> Yeah. >> And creatine specifically for women as well. So men and women. >> Yeah. Good. That's a smash all. You guys are doing great. So smash also. That's a smash also. So creatine pretty interesting as just as a substance. About five grams a day. I say that with a little asterisk on the end because that depends on the creatine that you're getting, the concentration, how it's made, and the also kidney function. >> And so, you know, it gets processed through the kidneys and such. And usually folks that are already taking creatine, these are active people. >> And so, you know, because they're active, they're going to have higher fluid demands for water and things like that. So, barring all of those things that someone's doing that and that they are staying well hydrated and such, it it it's it's great in terms of muscle strength on average about 11% stronger. >> You said, did you say taken before a workout? It can make you 11% stronger >> before and during. >> Okay. We went to dinner last night. I asked that question. >> Yeah. Before and during. >> Wow. >> Yeah. So, think about that for a second. Let's say you're, you know, lifting A-50 lb dumbbell. Right now, it's a 55 pound dumbbell. >> Yeah. Interesting. Wow. >> That's that's a pretty big difference just by drinking this stuff. There's newer data that shows that it's encouraging for Alzheimer's and, you know, decreasing risk of Alzheimer's and so forth. So, >> so yeah, that's a defin. >> How about like body tone definition? Like does it do anything in that regard? I mean I you know there's there's some data that's out there that does show that but the bigger question is why why does it why does and I I would think it's because lifting heavier so therefore getting more hypertrophy muscle >> is there any pros because there was a lot or I mean cons because that you know I think women are like oh I can get really bloated like what's this going to do to me what can they expect >> the bigger thing is you can have shift in in fluid yeah so bloating can occur the the biggest one is really kidney function so it's Someone needs to make sure that they're drinking plenty of water and such. And they have to be careful what other supplements they're taking, >> okay? >> Because there's some folks that I mean, it's really easy if you're not careful. You're taking 80 supplements in a day. >> Otherwise, all this is getting processed through the body. >> And so the question becomes, well, if there's something that's causing kidney damage or multiple things, you don't really know. >> And now you're adding gas on the fire with the the cre with the creatine. Well, then you know that could be something that's brewing. >> Yeah, that's so interesting because so many people are so supplement heavy. But we, you know, talking to you, it it was so interesting to shed light on the fact that we could be taking all these supplements. Some could be canceling each other out. Some might not be working well together. So, you think you're doing something so good for yourself, but you might not necessarily be like, how do people know what to be taking? >> It's tough. It's tough because again, you get marketed everything. You know, consider it this way. >> Um, consider if you take all the supplements, you put them in a bowl, >> and you're going to you're going to eat it like it's a bowl of supplement Cheerios, right? And you're scooping all these things in. Well, where does it go? So, it goes in, goes into the stomach, starts getting dissolved. Once it's all dissolved, now it's all big slurry. Like, we really don't think about this when it's in pill form, right? But now it's all this big slurry. If you have that with like a protein shake or something, well, now now it's a really big slurry as it's making its way through your gut. what actually gets absorbed probably actually a really small amount. So, you know, in general it's like and and we're busy and I do this myself where it's like if I'm going to take some supplements, I just handful all at the same time, check the box, I'm done, move on to the next thing. But the reality of the situation is probably not absorbing all those things appropriately. So, it's if you're if you're going to take it, I would just say whatever it is that folks are taking, be very intentional about it. like do your research, be very intentional about it and probably don't do like I do and don't take it all at once. >> Yeah. And get your labs done every, you know, you do our labs every 90 days, right? So we always know what's going on in our body. If somebody doesn't have concierge care like you, how often should they get their labs done so they know, hey, these things are helping me, hurting me, etc. >> I mean, I'm a big proponent of every 90 days just because that way not only does someone always know, but you can develop a trend. So each one of those each one of those sets of labs is a data point. So, and what we'll do is we, you know, I literally like I map out all your data points so that not only am I looking at the number, I'm looking is there a trend, you know, where something's going up or down because if it's something's going off, I want to know immediately before there's damage that occurs. I would say for parameters for folks if they're younger like let's say 30 in their 30s or so someone in their 30s can probably get away with checking labs like once a year you know 40s twice a year 50s okay we need to start really paying attention >> yeah all right one or two more controversial smasher passes right >> first one uh ompic tzepide what do they call them GLP what >> GOP ones >> GOP ones smasher pass >> oh gosh Can you I don't know if you can do an in between smash or pass. Um >> smashy passy. >> Yeah. So um GLP ones definitely have their place. Okay. So for folks first of all folks that are diabetic oh my god what a godsend these medications are. I mean you're talking about you can actually like reverse diabetes >> which is crazy that this even exists you know in our lifetime. So for folks that are diabetic and again this is not medical advice. Don't try to sue me or anything. I'm not saying every diabetic needs to be on it, but for those under the guise of their physician that's being prescribed this, it can make a massive, massive impact on their health. Okay, that's for diabetics, but that's not the majority of people using it. Majority of people actually use it for weight loss, right? And the reason why it works for if in case your audience doesn't know is it does two things. Number one, satiety. So, it makes someone feel fuller sooner. And it does that by actually slowing down the gastric motility. So when somebody eats, food will sit in the stomach for longer. Okay, it's a key point we'll come back to in a sec. The second thing is that folks will actually use carbohydrates in a little bit different manner so that that way they don't quite absorb as much as well. Now this is where the past side of it comes in because if some is good then more must be great, right? >> Not exactly. And this is what folks have done is they've started abusing it and taken the attitude of well if I'm taking this magic drug then now I can eat anything I want. >> And this is where you start hearing all this the horror stories about people taking it and they're they're vomiting everywhere. They can't keep food down and so forth because they're trying to pack in a bunch of food into a stomach that's now moving slower and not absorbing as well. So if they cram in four pieces of pizza, they're going to get sick. >> Yeah. The other thing is that folks will take higher dose for a longer period of time. And with with anything, you know, there's there's always give and take. There's always a pro and con. There's always a cost. >> Double-edged sword always. And so with this medication, since there are so many people, we're talking millions and millions of people on this medication. It finally there is enough data points to see what some of those things are. And one of those is a very specific optic stroke that can occur. Another thing you hear like commonly referred to as ompicase which is folks that they they they weren't eating enough protein so they lost so much fat that they also ended up losing losing a lot of muscle as well. And so now they've created another problem where either it's not just loose skin but not enough muscle on their frame. So do these did this medication have a place? Yes. Does it still have a place? Absolutely. But now it's been long enough where I my hope is that folks will start using it a little bit more, you know, carefully. >> I heard that it can also for people who have addiction, you'll have to tell me like it can kind of shut off certain things like >> absolutely >> all sorts of addictions. Can you speak to that? >> Absolutely. Yeah, that's that's a very good point. So um it basically unhinges that reward center. So, example for you, like if if I have a really stressful day, uh I don't I don't reach for, you know, alcohol or or anything like that. It's like, man, I want I want a cheeseburger. Like, that's my >> same >> that's my drug of choice right there. Cheeseburger and a milkshake. >> You just feel better. And it's like if you have something that's like high sugar, high carbohydrate, and you take a bite into it, you instantly, it's like you get that dopamine hit. And you know, then like after you have it, then you're like, "All right, I feel terrible. I just did that." But but it's that dopamine hit that gives that instant feeling of of uh relief that comes. And so I I use this in my practice for folks that have addictions. So, you know, I have a patient who has a gambling addiction. Well, has nothing to do with weight loss, does it? But micro doed, you can actually use it off label for that to to unhinge that dopamine hit from almost anything. >> Wow. >> Last smasher pass. >> Mhm. >> PRP and uh stem cells. Do they really work? And shooting PRP and stem cells in your little wee wee, your little elephant trunk. Does that really work? >> This is real. >> People are doing this now. Keep that needle away from my needle. So smash. Yes. Wow. >> Yeah. Absolutely. So PRP stem cells, it's a like stem cells, it's a huge we could do a whole podcast just on on stem cells. Yeah. Okay. In PRP that for folks that that don't know, so it's plateletri plasma and that comes from the person. So literally it's we draw to vial someone's blood, put it in a centrifuge because of the the different weight of all of the different components of blood it separates. And the the platelets are basically the component of the blood that if you accidentally cut your finger or something like that, platelets rush to that area, seal off the cut, starts that healing process to occur. Um, so PRP is used for a variety of things. Um, it could be used cosmetically. Uh, it's used uh intraurgically. Um, >> I used it during my shoulder surgery. Yep. >> Very smart. >> Three weeks ahead of schedule. >> Yeah. Very smart of your surgeon to do that. Uh, so really glad that they did. Uh, and it can be used for penal rejuvenation as well. So, you know, it has a ton of of uses. And the beautiful part about it is it's not like it's it's not foreign. It can't be rejected. It's from your own body. >> Explain rejuvenation like you're shining this thing up or it has gets less skin or like it acts better. It >> it acts better. So, so basically >> listens to your commands better. >> Yes. Yeah. So basically what happens you know and and and by the way there's there's a a procedure for women as well that it can actually be injected into um uh vaginal tissues and so forth for increased sensitivity and everything so women aren't left out. Um but one of the things that can be done is it basically you know particularly for men just increases blood flow uh so that as you as you increase blood flow and everything you'll have stronger erections for longer. I am not sure. No matter what the payoff is, I'm not sure you're gonna get me to stick a needle in uh >> I'll do it for you. >> You'll do it for me. How kind of you. >> Are you happily Are you saying I need this? >> No, I'm just saying. I think it'd be funny. >> Do you have any more smasher passes or should we start talking about the scans? >> I really do because I think people are going to like love this episode so much cuz it's every question I feel like we all have. How much protein, Dr. Boyd? Like it's such a it's having a moment right now. And I know even on my team, we have like protein challenges, trying to hit protein goals, cuz I'm so aware of it from just my fitness background that protein's important for so many different reasons. But, you know, I have some people on my team who literally like if they don't try, they're like getting no protein throughout the day. Like, they really have to try. So, what does a good protein quotient look like for men and women? >> First of all, let me just acknowledge it is so hard. Mhm. >> Like it it's just it really is just hard to get enough protein in, you know. Um I chase it every day. >> Starbucks is coming out with a protein foam. >> Oh, really? >> For the top of their coffee. It's like I know it it will help America somehow. Maybe. >> Yeah, somehow. It's like on your Frappuccino. Like I don't know that. But >> but it is it's just hard to get enough protein in. So on average, an easy number to remember is one gram per pound of body weight. >> So >> Oh [\h__\h] >> Yeah. So it's it's like more than what you would think actually, right? And that's if for someone who's just staying stable. >> If someone is actually trying to add muscle mass, it goes up even more. Then it's about one and a half grams. >> Dang. >> Yeah. And so when you start doing the math on this, it's like, man, it's actually a fair amount of protein on a regular basis. Wouldn't it be nice to be able to do this, you know, in an easier manner? So a little thing that folks can do is that, you know, I found it way way easier if you start frontloading your protein. M. >> So, just start your day trying to get more protein. >> So true. Like start with a bunch of like a big thing of eggs or >> Exactly. >> Yeah. Like eggs, it's weird like in nutrition science, it's like eggs are good. Now they're bad. Now they're good again. So, you know, bottom line, you know, as as long as eggs aren't, you know, more pricey than gold, just eat some eggs in the morning, you know, and at least start, you know, getting things going for the day with your protein requirements. And then, you know, throughout the day, you want to try to continue to to take in protein on a regular basis. >> I'm like protein um in the in the morning, protein shakes, cottage cheese with berries, >> shadowics. >> Yeah. Also, um you know, we do we do pretty good with lots of protein at night. Like we'll we kind of have this idea around our dinner meal. I mean, I have it. I don't know if you do. I force it on you, but like you can eat as much lean protein as you want at dinner. like just load up like I don't have an off button for it. Like I allow myself to load up on that versus you know anything else like a potato or you know starchy carbs and I feel like that's been really helpful to me to just be like have as much protein as you want because you I feel like you can't necessarily especially as a woman you're not going to OD on protein at that particular meal but it's always I feel like that's served me really well. >> All right last subject for the day. Um, you have the blind spot uh patented full body executive physical and one would say it is more comprehensive than Mayo Clinic's famous executive physical. Can you confirm or deny that it is more comprehensive than Mayo's? And really, what goes on in one of these things? >> So, I first of all, I'll tell you Mayo Clinic's executive program is wonderful. It's it's a great program. Um, and I'm I'm familiar with many of the things they do. I don't know all the nuances. Um, but I have had uh quite a few patients that have come over to blind spot. Did you ask like what do we do during >> Yeah. Like what should people expect? Why is it so comprehensive? What are you looking for? >> Yeah. So, you know, I have a trademarked as the ultimate human analysis because it truly is. Um, and what we do is we we start really it begins with a conversation. And that's actually the most important part because in sitting and speaking with somebody, someone will tell you what either what's wrong with them, what could potentially be wrong with them, blind spots that they have in their health based on their family history or their activities or all of those things. And that in itself is something that gets missed quite a bit because if someone if you know the medical system on average seven minutes is the typical time that a doctor send a patient. Seven minutes you can't find out anything with seven minutes right it's very very high level. >> So when you actually sit down and speak with somebody that's when each person that comes through our our blind spot executive physical we actually will go and create it custom for them because of that. And that's really the biggest difference. So yes, there's a myriad of CT and MRI and all those things, blood tests that we do. It's all very very VIP, but that's what really separates it is that it is a completely custom regimen for each individual. >> I mean, it's really cool. Lori and I do this, you know, once a year, once every couple years, and you model out like our insides. You walk us through our heart layer by layer. You walk us through our organs. You walk us through our veins. And you're like, "Look, there's no plaque here. Great job." or look, your heart works so hard that it's adding these little ventricle or not, what do you call them? Little uh capillaries to it. >> Uh and it's cool to be able to walk through the inside of your body step by step and see there's nothing there or there's something lurking there. >> You found some crazy scary things in otherwise healthy entrepreneurs. Share a couple of those stories. Probably the most dramatic was, you know, a um about the size of a small orange brain tumor that I found in a uh in an entrepreneur's wife one time. >> Had no idea it was there. Yeah. Uh so those really one of the most dramatic. >> No symptoms at all. >> None no headache, nothing. And I mean, you know, otherwise early 30s, had little kids. I mean, you know, you would have never known otherwise unless you look, you know, I had a a guy come in that was um uh young, 38, you know, 30. He had been an entrepreneur for a while, though. He had started when he was 18, so he was already 20 years in. Handsome young dude, six-pack abs, like I was like, this he's going to be great. He had all these coronary calcifications in his heart where I mean it looked like, you know, this is probably the 38-year-old guy with the heart of maybe someone closer to 60, you know, and this was, you know, he he kept a relatively clean diet. He wasn't a smoker. He wasn't a heavy drinker or anything. Literally, you know, he was predisposed to this for all the stress and everything he had been under for as long as he had. So, these are things if if you don't look, you truly don't know. Otherwise, you're just making a bunch of assumptions. >> I want to be clear. Neither one of these people had any idea or any symptoms. >> No. >> And they wouldn't have found it if they didn't do the blind spot medical executive physical. >> Correct. >> That is some scary [\h__\h] That's the kind of the guy you just described. That's the kind of thing like unfortunately my father, we all thought he was healthy, worked out all the time, all that and had a 90% blockage that nobody knew about calcification and fell over dead. >> Yep. >> You are literally saving lives by having created this. >> How do uh what should people expect? How long does it take? Where can they get it? Listen, let's be honest. It's not affordable for all, but can you put a price on saving your life and and these these things that you don't know are lurking? Uh how do they get one? >> Yeah. So, uh you have to apply, you know. So, like you said, I I I don't work with everybody. So, it's it's folks that are a fit. So, you go to my website, you go to blindspotmedmedical.com. >> Blindspotmed.com. Okay. >> And fill out the application there. And that's really where things start is to see if someone's a fit. blindspotmedmedical.com >> for people who are, you know, I'm I'm curious because we're seeing with all like the influencers and stuff posting like I think it's like Prouvo. I know it's not even remotely close to this, but is that a good option for people too? >> It is. And so um uh Pnuvo has done a really good job with actually making it uh making making a screening mainstream and affordable. >> Yeah. Like bringing this conversation in which is huge. >> Yes. So, and and uh with them what I'd say is that um you know they do a whole body MRI which is good. >> Like I do a whole body MRI on on all of my patients including you guys on an annual basis, right? >> But I do that because I've done a lot of other testing and everything first, >> right? >> So, does a whole body MRI have a place? 100%. Absolutely. Does just because a whole body MRI comes back negative does that mean okay we're good? Not necessarily. Right. >> So it can rule out problems >> but it doesn't necessarily it shouldn't give a complete sense of of protection. >> Right. Right. Yeah. You were you were like I learned a lot of that from you understanding like oh there's so many different things you have to check to to really go deeply into your health. And I know when I did it, I'm I'm so grateful because it's like peace of it's so much peace of mind. Before we did this, I think you just are wondering, you know, is there something that could be lurking that if I knew about it right now, I could catch it obviously and extend your life. And it's crazy because you're in your 30s, you really don't think about it. And all of a sudden, 40, like it just it shows up so fast, >> really quick. Yeah. >> And it is like when you should really be looking into your health. And I know that you've said even in the past like there's a lot of stuff that can show up in 30s now. >> And so I think even just you know something like if they if they can't you know meet with you which hopefully they can but if they can't like something like a prouver or something just to see if there's anything big there. Um but you know when we did it we found AI can't remember what you call but something on my thyroid and then something in my um help me. What female parts do women have? >> Urus. >> Yeah I think. >> Wow. >> I forget. I forget. in my uterus and they were all they're all fine but we're watching them but like I feel so much more at peace knowing I'm going in and like checking on them consistently and just to have the conversational aspect with you too of like hey is this are we like are we good is this going to be okay if we keep keep checking on it it's like literally life-changing knowing the status of your health >> I actually want to extend something once like in a form of a thank you to you when you did Lor's full body scan and you found the little nodule or growth or whatever it was on on you uterus and the thing on your thyroid. >> Most people have to wait 30 or 45 days to go in and then get the ultrasound like, "Oh, we got to go look quicker." You had her in that afternoon. Like we found it at like 2:00. >> You're panicked when this happened. You're not exactly like, "Oh, I can wait 45 days." I was like, "Tell me what the this thing is." >> And this is what concier care is. You got it. We found out like 2:00. You're in there at 3:30 getting it done. and we're finding out, okay, no big deal. It's nothing bad and we just have to monitor it. When I tore my bicep and labroom, texted you that night, you said, "No problem. I'll have you in the best orthopedic surgeon in Newport." Uh, cuz I happened to be in Newport when it happened. And sure enough, I went in. Now, did I know this was the best guy or not? I don't know. I assumed it was cuz you said it was. And I went in and got the appointment and got the surgery and I ran into another orthopedic surgeon in Newport Beach here. He said, "Oh, who did your surgery?" And I told him, he goes, "How'd you get in with him?" I said, "Well, I don't know. my my concierge doctor just got me. He's like, he's the best in all of Orange County. And you know how serious medical care is in Orange County. So, it's those little differences like that where we feel best investing our money. That's where we are like, "Oh, good. I can sleep at night." Um, especially after my dad died of a heart attack >> and I became a hypochondriac. So, I was like, "Wait, if something was lurking in him, something must be lurking in me." So, every little sore arm, every little, you know, chest ache from a chest day of working out, I thought, "This is it. I'm dying. This is a big one." And not until I went and got the scans and got all the testing and the 90-day labs and all that did I feel like, okay, I'm not just maybe in the clear, but we can look inside my body and see that I'm in the clear. >> Yes. >> It's priceless. >> So grateful. >> Oh, honored. I'm I'm honored to take care of you guys. It truly is. It's been you you guys are absolutely wonderful people and it's just just being in your circle it it makes my life better. >> Well, it's so much fun going down the rabbit hole with you of health and I also I love your approach because you're really you look at it from every angle. I feel like that's so important when you're considering just who you're going to get advice from because I've never had a conversation with you where there's a question for the most part where you're like no or yes like this is you know like so clear on exactly what this is because you look at you know who the person is what's the situation you know how is is there what are all of the pros and cons to things and I think that that's it's so refreshing because what works for one person is not going to work for another and vice versa. So, I just feel like it's a a really good way to look at health care in general and I think it creates less fear around things, too. >> Absolutely. Yeah. >> All right, everybody. So, that puts a bow on this one, but I also want you to go check out the blindspotmed.com if you're serious about getting one of these full body scans. Uh we've got no incentivization to say that. It's just saved our lives. It has made a difference mentally and physically for us. And so if you're going to put your money anywhere, put it into something that gives you that clean bill of health or where you catch something early cuz when you catch something early, damn near anything can be fixed. So doctor, thank you for being on. Thank you for your time and thank you for just caring about us so much. >> Honored, honored to be here, guys. Thank you so much. >> All right, we will see you on the next podcast. You guys, make sure you go follow. Let's say that again. Fer >> Make sure you go follow Dr. Boyd. Dr. Boyd, what's your handle? >> David Boyd MD. at davidboydm. We'll put everything in the show notes as well so that you can just pop down there and click on everything and you can go and check it out. Thanks guys.