By the time I launched, I had used all of my savings. I had maxed out all of my credit cards. I had no money to my name, so I was broke. So, I couldn't pay for ads even if I wanted to. Making six Tik Toks a day was a necessity. When you started this, it caught some viral attention, but I love your story because I think so many people do not realize what it actually takes for something to catch on. Haley, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. >> Thanks for having me, Lori. >> Well, I'm so excited to chat with you because number one, I love products. I love clothes. I love swimwear. I love spirituality. I love manifesting. And I love Shark Tank. You're the the common denominator between all of those things that I just mentioned. Um, so I'm excited to have you on and chat about your brand because you do have a really unique brand and it came out of a problem that you were solving. So let's start there then I'll kind of back up to what was happening before that. Yeah. So to introduce myself, I'm Haley. I'm the founder of OneW with and that unique product that you're mentioning is swimsuits that fit like underwear. So, in April of 2019, I was trying on a bunch of different swimsuits for an upcoming trip, and I literally said out loud out of frustration, I just want a swimsuit that fits like no-show underwear does. Like, if you know, you know, >> no-show underwear does not dig into your body. It just lays flat on top of your body like a second skin. So, it can really create this like dissonance of being in no-show underwear, looking in the mirror, popping on a swimsuit, and being like, "What just happened?" Like, something happened and it's so similar, but so different. So my product one with um bridges that gap. So we took what makes noshial undies so flattering and made it swimmable. So and the name comes from me saying out loud I want it to feel one with my body. So that was the genesis moment. Okay. So let's go back directly to that moment. Was it like oh my gosh this is going to be great. I'm going to create this. Like I know exactly what I'm going to do. Or what were you doing before that? Was this like totally out of your element? Yeah, it it's funny because one with plays on so much of the little pieces of my background, but to answer your question, Lori, of like, did I know this was going to be great, I did. I'd be lying to you if I was trying to be humble and I was like, I know that this will hit. I do. I otherwise, I wouldn't have done it. Like I I believed in it so wholeheartedly from that moment in 2019 like through now obviously and I just felt it like so strongly in my bones. But before that I was on YouTube so I had a content creation background and I worked in bridal so I had like a little bit of like a fashion/intimates background too. So it was kind of like a blend of little bits of experience in my life. So you have like really you really understand like the problems that women struggle with when we are either in a dressing room whether it was like you said in you know bridal or whether it was swimwear I mean and you are a woman and this was your exact problem. I feel like whenever we are looking for businesses to start there is nothing like being able to speak to the exact core of the problem. And you're probably like, if I'm dealing with this and this is driving me crazy, there's no way it's not making other women crazy. And let me tell you, like swimwear is a thing. Like you I don't care how great your body is, you can still feel self-conscious in it. And you're like, why why does this not like fit the way I want it to fit? Or why don't I feel the way that I want to feel in this? So, I love that you were solving like solving your own problem and solving so many other women's problems. So, I want to go back to the um so funny like while it's 11:11 and I'm about to ask a manifesting question literally right. >> I love it. >> When you felt it, was it because you just like you knew it was solving a big problem for people like what was that feeling in your body of like this is going to work? Like really explain that and and how did you really anchor that in? >> Totally. So, I'd like to think that I planted this seed for myself when I was like five years old. Because from the time I was five years old, maybe a little earlier, maybe a little later, let's just say five, I felt in my bones that I would one day have a company slashbrand, like specifically a brand like around a product. And I knew again from the time I was little that I would know when the moment happened when I would think of that idea. Like I would know when I thought of the idea I would know that it was the idea. In that moment I knew it was the idea. Like period end of story. So I think maybe if I hadn't had that almost like innate belief that I was born with for whatever reason. I don't I might have questioned myself a bit more. And I think I I like what I did was I set an intention for myself, you know, back the year 1999 or 20 whatever it was, you know, and and I had to wait, you know, until 2019 for it to literally manifest into that light bulb moment. >> But I did. I knew I knew it was the idea. And again, it was so arresting, Lori. Like, it literally like made me freeze in my tracks when I said it out loud. And I'll just never forget that moment. I hope everyone in their life has a moment like that because it just felt so it overtook my body and my mind. And I literally have not stopped thinking about it >> from that day in 2019. >> Okay. So, you you had set the intention for yourself years and years and years prior. M >> had anything in between that come close where you were like, h is this it? >> Yeah. Like little like seedlings of like, okay, I'm going to text my sister about this idea and if she thinks it's good, maybe I pursue this one. But I also kind of knew like, no, it's not it. You know, like I distinctly remember driving and being like, haven't thought of the idea yet. I know I will. I'm not going to pressure myself into it. But yeah, I had little like tiny ones, but I would let go of them in two days, you know, like it never lasted in my body longer than that. One with I physically like couldn't shake it. I could not shake it. When you started this, like it caught some viral attention, but I love your story because you were very persistent and consistent. So, I want to talk about that. um just how you kind of started creating content and what that looked like when you first started marketing. I think so many people do not realize what it actually takes for something to catch on. So can you share that story? >> Yeah, so my background is content, right? So I did have that as a competitive advantage. I know a lot of people when they think of an idea, one of their stopping like friction points is I don't want to be on camera. I'm stuck at social media. I won't be able to market this. So to that I say either like make it your mission to learn and convince yourself to like it until you can hire someone or hire someone, right? Like that's what I would would say. But I really started making videos like Tik Tok videos out of necessity. I had always told myself again before I knew what the idea was. I knew that like when it did come to be I could just make Facebook ads and that's how I would sell my product, right? But by the time I launched, I had used all of my savings. I had maxed out all of my credit cards. I had no money to my name. So, I was broke. So, I couldn't pay for ads even if I wanted to. So, making six Tik Toks a day was a necessity. And it paid off. It paid dividends. But yeah, I just was like, this this has to happen. And so the the marketing, you know, virality moment really came from just to your point, consistency, like literally not letting it go every day, posting a ton of Tik Toks and literally hoping and feeling that one of them would pop off and that's what happened. >> So if somebody was starting a brand right now, what would you tell them? Whether it was clothing, whether it was supplements, whether it was I mean skincare, beauty, whatever. What would you say? like if they did not have the marketing dollars, what's the first plan for them? I would say definitely focus on organic content. And again, a lot of people like if you can't hire out right away, tell yourself 6 months, 6 months, I'm going to really not enjoy this. This is going to be really hard. I this is not natural to me, but I am going to spend, you know, from the time I get home at 6:00 at night to 9:00 p.m. watching videos about editing and InShot and Cap Cut and looking at trending audios and scrolling through my for you page and really understanding what's going on and how brands are doing it and knowing like the goal is to offload this, right? The goal is to offload this because I think now in 2025, you you can't have a product without content. Someone has to make that content and again like it might have to be you for a time or a time and it also helps even if you do offload it to someone ultimately you need to know how to give that directive and like have a semblance of what's going on. So you literally can't lose in teaching yourself the basics of how to market on social >> period. Yeah. I honestly like and I have a brand as well so it's um a beauty supplement and truly like my like I am just starting to really ramp up content but that's the best advice on earth because it's you're always e either having to pay for marketing borrow um someone else's audience or figure it out yourself and figure it out yourself yes it's like one of the hardest things you'll ever do like truly I am in it like the resistance is so high and I'm even a content girly. I have been for years. >> Yes. >> But the level that it is going to take like this is so like you know how things happen at the perfect time. I'm like this is the perfect conversation for me. So, I hope it's hitting everybody because I think the awareness of like your, you know, three to six posts a day, like if we feel it in our bones that this brand is going to come out into the world, then yeah, it's going to feel like we're birthing something daily. Like, >> yes. >> Pushing it out of our bodies. >> Yes, >> it's true. And again, like to your point, like the resistance and we are both content girlies and we still have that like >> Yeah, it's bad. >> We still have it, you know. And I also think Lori too, like in terms of advice for people listening, if you are listening to this and hearing me say like you have to make content, you have to do the three to six posts a day, whatever it is, and you're like, I don't know if I can do that. I really almost question like are you passionate enough about the idea? Because if someone came in here right now and said you have to learn how to code the back end of your website for one with to stay afloat, I'd be at the library. You have to make sure that you pass all these tests cuz your business will test you as you know like left and right. And you have to like literally give yourself a litmus test of will I will I do this for this thing that I supposedly love so much? And if it am so passionate about and if the answer is yes, that's your answer. >> Yeah. And honestly, someone else is going to be doing it in your category like and they're going to surpass you. And I'm not saying that that is it's not I don't even put myself in the race like I have to beat these people. But the awareness of people are going to beat you to the forefront. >> Yeah. >> Of that message. And it's and speed is important, especially with something like what you were doing, like really creating something that was breakthrough in the category that doesn't cut into your body. And it's important for what I'm doing too while this category is just really starting out is to be the person when they think of this new thing that you're the name that they think of rather than someone else, you know, as becoming that habit or that go-to brand. >> Exactly. Yeah. I mean, I can't tell you, Lori, like how scared I was to be on social media before I had launched one with because I was so afraid I was going to open up my phone and see someone did this before I did. That was like my biggest fear when I saw Skiims was well it wasn't called SKIMS at the time if anybody remembers that it was first called kimono and she had >> That's right. That's right. Yeah. >> You remember that? Like I remember it only because I saw it. >> Yeah. Literally one day um I saw and I was so scared. I was like what if it's swimsuits that fit like underwear? Like literally. And I was just like waiting like literally white knuckling for them to come out with their first like line sheet or whatever so I could see it wasn't. But yeah, I would like don't let that be you. Don't let that, you know, fear consume you of like, oh my gosh, someone is going to do this before me because I haven't actioned it yet. Cuz that was me for a year and a half, you know, >> between thinking of the idea and launch. Was it? No, it was two and a half. I think I've said that twice today that it was a year and a half. It was two and a half years, I think. >> Yeah. April 2019. I launched in November of 2021. So, two and a half years. I'm like scared to see anything swimsuit related on social media. How long did it take for you to um go from idea sketch on paper knowing kind of like what you wanted to having physical product in hand? >> I would say from that point probably six to n Well, are we talking like the product is here and it's ready to sell or like I get my first sample? >> First sample. >> First sample maybe 3 to six months, I would say. >> Yeah, >> that's that's pretty good. That's pretty fast. And then how long to sell? >> That was the tricky That was the tricky part. >> Tell me about it. Trust me, mine went haywire. >> It was so crazy. So, I don't know. When did you start glossy? >> Um, well, technically it was a different company and I pivoted, but I started raising money in 2020, but had to pivot, throw out the first idea, start something separate. So, it was probably a year and a half from the actual idea of glow sale. Okay, so we're in we're in a similar time frame though like so I started talking with factories in 2020 and people always think like oh was it COVID that made it take so long and I was like no it's the fact that we are so small the factories just didn't take us seriously and would keep bumping us on the production line so I'd wake up to emails at 5 in the morning being like yeah remember how we said you'd get your product in July you're not anymore it's September and you know what I mean it was just like Like a year. I'm not kidding. >> Wow. >> Mhm. >> Okay. So, what made you stay patient during that? Were you working somewhere else at the same time? Like, how were you funding your life? >> I was project. >> Yeah, I was still doing content, which you know was was helpful, but like it was not easy. It was >> Were you like getting paid from brands? >> Yeah. >> Okay. Okay. >> Yeah. So, I had a YouTube channel. I don't have one anymore. Um, I just kind of like stopped identifying. I was Haley the founder and not Haley YouTuber anymore. So, it just didn't feel natural, you know? Um, but I did it for a really long time. But yeah, so I supported myself that way. I was doing like gigs on the side, like literally any way that I could. I was so scrappy, just funding everything. I also did get a um $15,000 grant from my alma mater. I got accepted into one of their accelerator programs. Amazing. That was super helpful. like anyone listening, go and look at the entrepreneurial initiatives that your alma mater does. Um, fortunately I went to Yukon here in Connecticut and they have an amazing entrepreneurial program like even, you know, after you graduate, but you'd be surprised like there might be initiatives like right under your nose, you know, in terms of like money you can get and and support you can get. So that was wonderful. But yeah, so that was a really big help. That $15,000 chunk allowed me to hire a technical designer. So that was super super helpful. So it was a combo of that and basically me just maxing out my credit cards. Okay. So we've talked about the super tactical actionable from the beginning of you were like, I'm just going to go hard with the content. Like that's how this is going to get out. >> Yeah. Oh, I love that you are so insanely actionable, but also, you know, I had asked you before this, what's something that you would love to talk about? And you're like, well, I'm really spiritual. Like, I'm pretty woo. I'm like, great. This just got so much better for me because I love that. Um, but I want to know what are some of the things that you have done and that you also currently do to kind of like visualize your business, move it along, think really big picture, think as big as you have. How do you keep that in the forefront? And you guys, I also want you to be remembering that she just told us she was posting like three to six times per day. So, that's a big piece of it, too. Yeah. >> Um, but tell me about what you do on the daily. >> Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, we'll start macro. Like, every year I do a vision board and it's really specific and if I don't have pictures of exactly what I want to manifest, I make them. Like, I didn't have, for some reason, there's no uh visual online of a utility patent being granted, like the actual like granted mark, which I made up. Um, so I like doctorred one on Canva and put it on my mood board, you know. Got my pat granted last week after four and a half years, Lori. Four and a half years. So finally, so I'll do a a mood board or excuse me, like a vision board every year. I'm really into visualization. I visualize every morning. I have my red light mask on on my acupressure mat and I just close my eyes and I visualize an outcome for myself. It can be a big one. It can be the outcome for that day. And then I'll also do like my self-t talk and um Esther Hicks style uh manifestation sort of like prompts if you will. So the one that I love is wouldn't it be nice if and the reason that they say that one works so well is because your body has no resistance to it. If you say like I'm I'm tapping the way that I do, but like if you're tapping and you say like I'm going to get a million dollars today, like that feels so out of reach, right? Like if you say, "Wouldn't it be nice if I got a million dollars today?" There's something that happens energetically there that I think allows it to flow freer. So I do that like when I was prepping for Shark Tank, I would go on walks and put my earphones in and play the Shark Tank theme song and picture walking out, like things like that. Um, and I'm also super careful with my language and what I consume. So, making sure that it's really positive and lends me to the outcome that I want. So, those are just kind of like daily habits I would say that I have >> that, you know, help me to my goal alongside action always, obviously. >> Yeah. Okay. So, what are you like what are you not consuming that you think most people are that you actually think holds them back? >> I have a big one. >> Okay. >> True crime. >> Okay. Oh, girl, I'm gonna we're going to get on a pulpit together. >> I I even have friends who are like really like they're crushing it, but they're doing that. And I'm like, but it's also making you depressed and anxious. And you just told me that >> you're walking a blessing because you're doing it. >> Okay, go go go off cuz I can't. >> Yeah. >> So, like I just think it's I don't love the concept of um glamorizing or um consuming other people's misfortune. Like I just I I don't want to call it misfortune. That is like not even the right. It's it's so beyond that. Uh and I started to feel it like in my body and it I was like I just don't think for whatever reason this aligns with with my desired outcome. I grew up my entire family in law enforcement, so I would see these situations playing out and it was it was the reality for so many people that I knew. It became really uncomfortable to consume things like that and even like really dark music in the morning. Like I love I'm a moody Lana Del Rey lover. Um, but I have to make sure like the songs that I decide to play and stuff like that in the morning um align with with my intentions for that day and the words that I speak out loud like you know when I'm singing along to songs and stuff like that like everything and this isn't to knock anyone that consumes this stuff. I just I just found for me personally in terms of like okay here's where I want to go. this stuff upon consumption of it started to feel really icky in my body when I think about me getting to an end goal. >> Yeah, I I could not agree more. I think whenever you're lowering your vibration, which I don't know anyone who's listening to like a true crime or or a music that's a little I don't know that can be super dark, moody or whatever. I mean a teenage I grew up like you know my teenage guy friendss were like slip knot people and I remember like this is so this is like literally energetically messing with me so bad and I knew that at like a really young age and you know our vibration is truly what people feel if if all else you guys if you don't believe that it's like magnetizing you for what you want like people feel the energy that you walk in the room with. So, I am so focused as well, like when I get on a podcast, like I'm like, "Okay, I want to make sure my energy's up, that it feels good for the other person." When I'm walking, you know, into a new room with people, because I I just think people want to work with people who they feel that like very high vibe, enthusiasm, like excited about life, very tuned in, like it's magnetizing. And I'm positive that that is why people felt it with you through social media is you probably just like well I know how you come off. I saw a lot of your stuff and it's it's very like high frequency. It's you're very excited about the brand. You're very tuned in. You're very tapped into it. It's like who you are and so you're able to just like, you know, preach that through your body like you need this. You're gonna love this. uh all of that stuff that you just mentioned is like people feel that it's so affected right down to how are you going into creating social media. Do you need a vibe check? Do you >> do you need a little prayer? Do you need a little meditation and visualization that no matter what happens with this video, you know what I mean? You you should be doing this and it's going to be great for the brand. Um it's like being a founder is an eternal attitude adjustment every >> every hour. like every hour. That's the best way to say it. It l Yes, it is. Um and it's like it like I said, it tests you in every capacity and not only does it test you, but you also have to bounce back from that test, you know? You can't like wallow. You can't, you know, so it's Yeah, it's an attitude adjustment every day, every hour, all day. Um but it really does. very cool, I think, to look back and be like, "Wow, I wouldn't have been able to handle this a year ago." >> Isn't that the best? >> Yeah, it is. >> It's the best moment when I'm like, "Holy like the old me would have just crumbled." Like, I'm so proud of the woman I've become through the freaking fires. >> Exactly. Yeah. No, and that's how I feel. I'd be like, the old me would just cease to exist. I don't even know. like just completely shut down. And it's just it's it's just really really rewarding. I think >> and it only happens like we only get to be this version of ourselves from the hard stuff. >> Yes. >> You know, >> it was not the easy stuff that, you know, created this version. >> It's not the wins. Those are just like woohoo. Yay. >> Tell me about some of the biggest challenges that you've had. >> There's so much. Like there really is. Um, I don't know where to begin. Yeah, being broke, my credit card declining at a gas station, paying for a toothbrush, like things like that. um you know amidst everything like going on and trying to build a business like I've had personal health setbacks, family health setbacks, like major major problems going on behind the scenes like with the business or you know nothing like I don't want to be like too ky but you know like we have a production issue happen that cost six figures you know like things like that. Um, there's always stuff going on, you know, that forces me to tap into a new side of me, learn a new skill set, you know, it's hard. Like, it's really, really hard. And honestly, just like the output too that it requires of you and what that can do if you're not careful, uh, can really debit your energy and mind, body, spirit. >> Tell me about that. Because there's this spot where like it's so funny because you know when you get so into manifestation personal development you can almost like personal development yourself too much. >> What you're going to say yeah I like this is when people are like name a failure and I'm like I can't I can't say a failure because I've learned and that's so corny but it's like >> they all get netted out in my mind. >> Yes. >> Do you know what I mean? >> Because you've learned from it. you're like, it's hard for me to say it was a failure because it it gave me something that I needed, you know, and it turned me into a person, the person that I needed to be. And and some of those for me too have been big like six figure like, oh my gosh, this really sucks. Six big monetary pings >> that you have lost or something happened and it's like you wouldn't wish those on anyone. But I have this weird thing that I know you'll get that like, you know, the the you would never wish the darkest moments upon your bestest of friends, but also you know that they need them in order to become who they see in their head. >> So it's like you can't you can't wish them away and I can't sit on here on this podcast and be like, "Oh gosh, you know, hopefully that doesn't happen to you." It's going to happen and you actually don't need to dread it, believe it or not. Because when it happens, it's like as long as you have like if you hopefully have one person that you can chat with or talk to and if not, you'll go and find that person, you'll create it. You'll reach out and maybe that's the reason you finally end up reaching out and make an entrepreneurial friend who can support you. Like >> there's going to be huge reasons for it and you're going to get through it because I think it's easy to feel like things are the end of the world. And that's one conversation that I want to bring to more women is like if you lose money, if you disappoint investors, if you something goes terribly wrong, if you disappoint people, like it's not the end of the world. It's actually just all how business goes. And I had some really like crappy stuff happen in the pivot of of transitioning into the the new company. And I got into such a dark place. Like I don't ever want a woman to get to that dark of a place where I felt so alone, so isolated. And like I'd let everybody down. I lost money. And it was like devastating. And so I hope these conversations like bring to light to people. You guys, it is not the end of the world. Like you will come back from everything. You will learn from everything. Don't sit in so much resistance over the fear that you never get started or that you get stuck or that you start making decisions from fear because that's when your company starts to go downhill like worrying about other people's. >> Yes. >> How do you stay in tune with yourself, your choices, stay out of all the opinions and everything that's going on in the world. >> I think there was a while where I was really listening to people and it was when my my business was not doing well. like, you know, >> it was in the early days and then kind of one day I came home from like a pitch competition or something like that and I just was like, you know what? I'm not doing this anymore. Like, I am not taking calls with people who have advice for me. Like, I am not going to networking events. I am not doing pitch competitions. I am shutting all of this down and seeing what happens if I go inward. M and that's where my business exploded. I'm not saying that like I am the key to the all- knowing. I'm just saying what can happen when you put your blinders on and you know create yeses from saying no to a lot you know is really like an unmatched experience. Like all of the unlocks in my life I feel like have come from me weeding things out if that makes sense. Mhm. I resonate with that so hard. I've had that a couple different, you know, I've pivoted a few times in my career throughout my whole life. And I think the times where it really took off and things worked, I turned out the outside noise like >> and right down to I used to compete in fitness competitions years ago and it was like the first year that I decided to like not go kind of like do the whole thing beforehand that they do the mingling, the like where you get in your head where you compare yourself to the other people there. And I was like, you know what? I'm just going to stay in my room and I'm going to like send positive juju to all these people and I'm going to focus on what I want to focus on. And that year I literally set records like in that in that category because it had I was like I'm staying in my own lane. I'm going to make my energy only beautiful energy for anyone I encounter like on stage or in the audience. But I am pulling it all back because I was just notice you. We're leaking you guys. We're just leaking our energy. We're leaking our ideas. We're giving away our power. We're feeling so insecure like whatever is making you feel that way like so unsure of yourself over and over again you almost need to stay away from all of it and like you said just for a little while it's not making any of those people bad it's because you are too willing to give it away at that point so it's like how do we get it back and I really do think it's like meditating listening praying sitting what do you like what are you excited about like what I'm in that space right now even for like what's my next product and it's So easy to go, well, what's going on out there? You know what I mean? Like what's happening? What's trending? And I need to turn it all down. >> Totally. Yeah. And just like really set the intention again, like you said, next product and be like ask the universe to show you a sign that'll make you think of what that next idea is. But yeah, stillness, Lori, I think is so important. Like a lot of times if I need to conceptualize a product, a roll out, how we handle a really complex situation, I will book a massage because it makes me put my phone in another room, makes me close my eyes, and keeps keeps me semi awake obviously, but puts me in such a zen, receptive state. >> This is a great idea because I really think a lot during them, but I don't know if I've set an intention for that. I think >> Yeah. Okay. >> You should. Yeah. like go in and be like, I am here to think of how I'm rolling out this. And again, it's not like some people would be like, oh no, you should really use that time for it to be restorative and do nothing except, you know, zen out. And it's like, no, I'm zen and that's why things are coming to me so easily. And it's not like a think tanking, you know, >> massage session. It just things literally just flow. >> Same. No, I Yes. Okay, great. Thank you for this advice. We're going to we're definitely going to do that because I'm like uh I don't feel like sitting and meditating for long periods right now at this point in my life, which is probably exactly what I need. But that would be a good way to get me into it. Okay. I want to touch on Shark Tank a little bit. Not because I feel like a million people are going to try to go on Shark Tank who are listening to this, but because Shark Tank just represents like a very, very large moment for your brand. It represents AI have to get my together. I need to make sure I'm on point. I need to really like be the representative of this and hold my own around people who are gonna push back. >> Um, so tell me what the journey of that looked like from just like how did you get on and then how did you prep? >> Yeah. So >> I always told myself I was not the type of person that should go on Shark Tank. Like I really I just thought that I would go in there and no pun intended like I'd become shark bait. Like I really would like I just I really think like I just saw them like seeing me walking down into the tank and then being like oh no. You know what I mean? Like that's literally what I had in my head. I'm just like there's no way that this will go over well. You know, I just I saw that and I would see I think I was especially really hyper sensitive when I would watch the show and see like solo female entrepreneurs in the tank and like how that could go and I just was so scared. Like I was so scared. So I told myself like Haley you should not do that show. Like people would say >> I'm nervous thinking about it. Like you let me like I'm nervous. Okay, keep going. Okay. >> I still get nervous Laura. I was on the show and I don't know like I I still get nervous. I do. It's gone. I I filmed almost a year ago. Like I still get anxious about it. Um and yeah, so I told myself that for a long time and then you know people would always say to me like you know you should go on Shark Tank. My grandpa used to say to me before I even had a business idea he used to say you should be on that show which was like the so sweet and I didn't understand it at the time but so fast forward eventually like I was on a founders club call. I'm a part of this club called the Founders Club. And there was a call that they did with all of the people in the club that had been on either Dragon's Den, which is the uh Canadian version of Shark Tank or Shark Tank, what I'll call Shark Tank proper US. Um even though we we stole it, I think from from Canada, but but yeah, and and I listened to all these people talk about their experience, and I asked that question of like, I think I'm just going to go in there and be Shark Bay. And um his name is Kai, Klay or Kai, I'm going to butcher it. um from Shredskins was saying like you just have to go in and do you like literally just be so authentically yourself which I know is like very trit advice but I for a while was like when I go in there I'm going to have to just like manufacture what they want to see >> you know and that was the first time I was like maybe I could just like be me and go into the tank. So, I applied right then and there after watching this call and about a month later, I got a call back from casting and you you apply thinking you're never going to hear anything again. You know, like you just throw it out into the ether and >> it's a very simple application. It's all the paperwork that comes after that's very intense. But um you know it took me 30 seconds to apply and they reached out to me and then basically from that moment on I was in touch with casting and production and it gets really intense and you're on weekly calls with them if you advance obviously and they tell you at every single stage you can get caught at any time. >> Anytime you can make it to LA and get caught. >> So it is Yeah. It's so high stakes, so high pressure, so anxietyinducing the entire time. But I had to do so much work on myself to change that narrative, Lori, of like me telling myself I shouldn't be on that show because I'm like a liability to be in the tank, you know what I mean? To believing that I'm the perfect person to be on that show. Like I had to do so much tapping, rewiring, telling myself a new story. And you know, ultimately it worked out really, really well. But I believe that had I not done all that work and just gone in with my old mindset. >> Yeah. >> It would be a totally different outcome. So it worked out really really well. Like we're gonna talk about that in a second. But for anyone listening who's like, "Okay, she rewired. She, you know, did the things I know you're removed from it a little now because you haven't done it in a while, but if you could take us back to like what what were the things you were saying during the tapping session? like what was the old story and then what were you rewiring with? >> Yeah. So I first Okay, another really good tip with this is um and I got this from your manifesting bestie podcast, but she talks about choosing like your favorite song, like something that is already committed in your mind and changing the words to it to being like your manifestation. >> Wow. >> I'll give you an example. This is so corny. No, this the stuff that works. >> It more works. Like, so after I film Shark Tank, and I'm getting back to the whole like changing my story, but I just feel like with your audience, I want to give the tips that I feel like really helped me. But after I film Shark Tank, you don't know if it's going to air. You can go through the whole process. You can get a deal and have it potentially not air. So, >> wow. >> Yep. >> I used to sing to myself like, I'm going to love how it feels when Shark Tank airs to the tune of No Air by Jordan Sparks. >> Okay. We love this every day. >> Just every day. Lori was singing that version of No Air that I made myself. Um I like refused to sing it out. Like it's done. I put it in a box. It's gone. Um but that really worked so well. There were other ones I had. Um too, but like that's an easy that's an easy one. Um but yeah, I was literally like tapping saying I am exactly the type of person that should be on this show. My entire life has prepared me to be on this show. They are going to love me in the tank. There is no other outcome other than me getting a deal. Like I remember my mom and I got to JFK to fly out to LA to film. And my mom goes, "Well, what happens if you don't get a deal?" And I was like, "Well, that's not going to happen." And don't like, "Get that out of my bubble, mom." >> Like, but it was like, "But don't say that." you know, like I mean, I was so I was so intentional and so careful with my words and my thoughts about myself. And it doesn't mean that I wouldn't like picture me bombing. I was so scared of that. But I also just like prepped so much spiritually, emotionally, mentally in addition with like physically, you know, listening to myself on tape doing my pitch a thousand times. Like I com I paired those two sort of like modalities of physical practice >> of this undying like faith that I could create this amazing experience for myself. >> I'm kind of getting tearary because I'm thinking about that version of you and then I watched the episode and I I know what happened and we'll talk about that but I'm like holy like what you you're bringing me back to those moments in my life when you're so in it that it is success is inevitable in your mind because you've wired it that way and when it actually happens >> it like when you have a moment outside of that like it brings you to your knees to see it come together exactly as it should. >> So tell me about like the moment you know you you you're you're finding out what's happening. Tell me who the sharks are and and how you feel on the other side. >> Yeah. So, I had found out that Jamie K Lima was going to be on my guest shark panel. They told me from the jump that I was likely going to have a guest shark um because of when they knew I was filming. Um but I found >> guest shark of all time. Yes. >> I literally like the second I found out who it was, I was like again and with my whole manifestation thing, I'm like everything is working in my favor. Like Jamie would be so perfect. I wrote it down in my phone. I will get a deal with Jamie Krena. like literally wrote it down and it happened. So yeah, but again like the second I heard it I was like Shark Tank is conspiring for me like you know what I mean like everything is going exactly as it should and um yeah so I found out Jamie was going to be the guest shark and I knew Barbara was going to be on the panel, Mark Cuban was going to be on the panel, Lori Grineer um and why am I forgetting? Oh, of course Mr. Wonderful. And yeah, so I was like, "Okay, like I feel really good about this. I feel really, really good." And I walked in and first of all, let me just say, all of this prep work and stuff like that did not make me immune to being the most nervous I've ever been. Ever. I was shaking. Like I physically couldn't eat. I was doing deep breathing like exercises every two. the camera guys saw how nervous I was like and were like saying really nice things to me and helping me breathe. Like it was I was so nervous. And then the second the doors opened and I just like walked out cuz they count you in obviously I just like was like it's showtime. I'm just literally leaving all of this like behind me. And I, you know, did my thing in the tank and walked out with a deal with Barbara and Jamie and like I mean you it's it played out on the show but I thought I was going to faint and I believe it and um I really just was like this was everything. This was every best possible scenario playing out. >> Wow. >> In real time. >> Wow. Were you out of body while it was happening or were you just like, "Oh my god, this is insane or did you were you like fully expectant of that?" >> I was not fully like I can't say expectant of it, but I was like hopeful like I just told myself like it's going to play out exactly as it's meant to, but again prepping my mind with like the best possible outcome. You know what I mean? Um, I always say like when I look at pictures of me in the tank or, you know, like me and Barbara at her retreat that happened back in April, like I'm just like I so wish I could go back in time and show that picture to myself like before I was about to walk out. But of course, like I needed those nerves to be able to like perform the way that I did. But yeah, it's like this weird like being so in your body but so out of body and so hoping that outcome to happen but also like you know the fear so deep within me that it wouldn't you know it's like all this insane combo of things happening at one time. >> Mhm. Did it change your business? How do you feel about it as a whole? I think for so long I struggled like in conversation when I was, you know, telling people what I did or whatever or like in a room with other ecom founders like I struggled to um be able to put words to like no what I'm doing is really legit. Like it's really cool. I promise. You know, like that sort of a thing. And the second obvious I could start saying like we were just on Shark Tank or you know like we got a deal on Shark Tank like it made me feel this um sense of accomplishment and in saying those like few words it's like people knew that I was cooking up something good you know so I think that's actually been the most gratifying piece of it is like a internal like nod to myself an acknowledgement to myself of like and and externally as Well, like this is a this is a seal of approval or you know a piece of social proof for my business that means so much. But yeah, it absolutely has changed my business and it's changed me as a founder and a person and it's just incredible. Like I really can't, you know, people ask me what the experience was like. I say everything you think it is. Like it's so high pressure. It's so high stakes. It's scary. But it's also amazing and it's like the epitome of the American dream. It really is. And I'm just so fortunate. So grateful. I I don't want to say fortunate. I want to say like grateful to have been on that show. >> Wow. I literally can't imagine. I feel like I'm like what's the closest thing to that outside of like competing, but I did a TED talk. I feel like that was in >> Yeah. >> But not but I didn't have those people sitting in my front row. So >> TED talk. Wait. So question about TED talks. >> Do you have to memorize? >> Yes. every word you do. >> You really need to because you have to be concise like down to the minute. >> How did you memorize it? >> Um, okay. So, this is great. I did not think I'd be able to memorize anything like that ever. That was like my deepest fear. Like, I didn't graduate high school. I was like, "Oh my god, I'll never be able to do this." Like, that was just a a fear, right? Like, I'm not smart enough to do it. That all came back to me like when I was doing this because it's a 20-minute talk. It was well, it was 18 minutes. And um I was listening to Elizabeth Gilbert. Do you know who that is? She wrote Big Magic. She was like an author. >> Yes. Yeah. >> And she was talking about she did a talk for Oprah and she was like, "Okay, doing a talk for Oprah is not the time that you you know you like wing it and you don't memorize it." So she's like was talking about her journey of memorization right around the time I needed to memorize which is crazy. >> Amazing. >> And so she said um the best way to do it is to walk it into your body. like walk while you're doing it and don't you don't want to memorize too far out. You only want to memorize within a week. So you want to know the talk but within a week you only want to memorize it. Otherwise it just you can actually forget it or something apparently. So for one week I would go on like twoour long walks and I would read the paragraph and then try to say it out loud and then read it and say it out loud. Then I'd go to the next paragraph. Then I'd try to combine those and I would just I'd be talking out loud the whole time in Los Angeles. It was totally fine because I looked like everyone else then. And uh in one week I memorized the whole thing. And thank God I did because the teleprompter broke on everyone that day and my first girl that went up did not memorize her talk and it was a disaster. >> Oh wait, that is so wild. I do think there is merit to waiting till really close to the thing to memorize. But like you said, you need to know it. Like you need to you should be able to give the bones of it before. >> Yes, for sure. >> But I think if you have it in your brain for too long, you can actually start to think about it too much and you're like, "Wait, was I supposed to say smoothing second skin swim or ultra smooth?" Like, do you know what I mean? And you've done it 60 times at that point. But that's so smart. Wait, so what happened? Could they air the the girl who didn't have No. >> Oh my god. >> No, I know. It was It was Yeah. So that definitely she went first and she was so nervous like and the teleprompter broke and she took her shoes off on stage while up there and then just kind of said like I don't know where to go from here. So you guys she recovered, she's fine, she's great, but um like things happen. So >> yeah, >> so try to try to record it. And we all know that that was for her journey as well. I'm sure she's doing fantastic now. Yeah. >> So anyway, um, well, I love that. I love like I I feel like bringing people on this podcast to like knowing those super intense moments are just they're just such breakthrough moments for your life. What would you say is just like how are you different on the other side of that? You personally, who you are as a a a woman, a founder, all of it. >> Yeah. I just had so many limiting beliefs about myself. like I just wasn't the type of person who could get this or get that or oh this would happen but there would certainly be a catch or things like that and I just don't think that way anymore. Like that entire experience rocked that for me. That whole belief system of like yeah I'm just going to have to like you know accept that that'll never happen for me because I'm not the type of person that that happens to. Like that was my whole thing. >> Mhm. And that's just gone. >> So's good. >> You got to do you have to do the big scary thing like you have to dive. No pun intended. You have to shark tank literally. >> Yes. >> Because look how transformational that is for you. And I have no doubt that you will be insanely successful. You already are because of that. Because you know now that you can do anything. And I think those moments are pivotal instead of resisting it and avoiding it. Like we all want to like starting to have the motto of head first. Like you got to go head first. Dive in. If you see it, take a dive because it's going to it's going to get you to where you need to go. So I'm so grateful for you and I want people to go check out your brand because it's absolutely incredible. It's beautiful. Um not only is it beautiful, but it also fits you amazing. Uh, it's going to make you feel so freaking good. And while it's still summertime, which by the way, I'm in California, Texas, Arizona, all of you, you still need all of your swimwear. And I know all you girlies take vacations and want all the content. So, this is the cutest stuff ever. All right. And I know you're going to give them a special little gift with it, too. So, tell us where to go and what you have for us. >> Absolutely. And thanks for the plug, Lori. Yeah. So, it's onewithswim.com. And if you use code Lori25, we're giving 25% off to podcast listeners, which we do not do often. So, hop on this deal if you want to get your swimsuits and feel like underwear. It's a good one, you guys. They do not literally do not do this. So, it's it's like a just go and grab it. Like, get off the podcast right now. Go follow her and go pick out your swimsuit. And truly, like tag us. I want to see it. I want to know. We We're like we're your typical girls. We need to know what you got. >> Absolutely. No, I also like I find most everything through podcasts. So, I would love to see anyone who picks up one with because of this podcast cuz I just think it's it's such like an enriched way to find out about people and things, you know? So, it's like I don't know. I just find it to be such a cool thing to know like when people listen to the story like played out in full and decide to get the product. I just think it's so cool. >> Here's what I'm picturing. I'm picturing earn your happy listeners. You book that little vacay or a little getaway or you go out back by your pool if you have one and you're listening to this podcast in your swimsuit that was 25% off looking so cute and you tag us and I want to see it. >> I love it. We're visualizing Lori. >> Yes. No. Truly manifesting that I get this photo. Who's it going to be? I want to get it. I want to get it 10 times. Who's it going to be? I'm so excited to see this because it will play out. It just will. >> It's going to happen. There's no way with the two of us who love this stuff that it's not going to happen. So, honey, >> I'm so grateful for you. Um again, say it again where we can um follow and you guys am putting uh her link to the website in the show notes below with the coupon code so you can just scroll down, go check it out and click. But where can we follow online? >> Absolutely. Our main platform is Instagram. So, one with swim. We're also on TikTok, One with Swim, oneim.com, one swim everything. Um, and yes, thank you for having me on, Lori. Like, this was an amazing opportunity to be able to talk with you and like someone who gets the visualizing, the manifesting, and and just like getting your mindset right in relation to your business, I think is so important. And I really hope that this was able to help people today. Yay. I loved it. Well, you guys, um, make sure you go follow, click the links, and until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.