 we're talking about muscle and we're talking about protein. But what I really want is I want to build stronger, more resilient humans. And there is no way to do it without taking care of our physicality. It's astounding how many people I've seen turn their lives around in six months to a year. And it's all gonna start here. It's not gonna start with what you're doing and what your work is. It's gonna start with how you're feeding yourself, treating yourself and how you're thinking. [♪ Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap So I'm gonna be like part friend, part like fan girl for this because I'm so excited to have you on the show, especially now with the release of your second book, Forever Strong Playbook. We both have such a fitness background and you are like the epitome of what I even aspire to be as a fitness person, your knowledge, your wisdom, who you are, how you are, and watching how much you have just literally grown way out of the atmosphere in the last couple years since I even initially met you is mind blowing, but not at all for me because getting to meet you and getting to see your genius and knowing what you know, it's such a clear and obvious reason you have to just let you have to let me do this. It's such a clear and obvious reason why what people see overnight, even though I know you work like an animal, but people have grasped on to what you are saying because it's true, it's real, and it works. I mean, I think all I have to do is go to your social page to see that, but also getting to be your friend and spend time with you. Like you guys, I don't know if you know this, but her and I have masterminded together. I think we've done three trips for like full weekends. Deep dive, maybe four? I don't know. Deep dive. I've gotten to see your work ethic, know your beautiful heart, your soul, the absolute passion that you have for this work because you love people and you know it works and you know that it is the future of health, longevity, happiness. Everything is tied to your work. So I'm so excited to have you here. It is really, you know, we're just chatting offline. For those of you who are entrepreneurs or aspiring authors, there is a level of intensity that continues to tick up as you get closer to launching the product, launching the go, launching the service, launching the website, whatever it is, and our nervous system gets amped up and I just jumped on here and immediately, probably for the first time in weeks, it just gave me a pause and I appreciate that. And I think it also speaks to something else, which again, this is the preface wrong playbook. We talk about protein, we talk about muscle, but really it's just an inroad to getting a better version of oneself. And the only way we get the better version of any individual is to go through periods of friction and actually periods of stress and interpret it differently. And this playbook is the book that I wanted to write in the beginning and it starts with ethos. I'd love to read it for you and I'd love to read it for your female entrepreneurs, male and female. I mean, listen, the guys are coming because they want to see how hot you are, but the girls are coming on here and do some work. So I just want to read this because the reason it starts, and I'll show you a picture, the reason that it starts with an ethos is because an ethos is a shared vision. Aging is inevitable. Muscle is the organ of longevity. Aging is not a luxury, but a responsibility. Through discipline, clear intention and a collective path of growth, we choose to build bodies and minds that thrive under pressure. We don't train just for performance, but for life. We don't shrink from adversity. We are sharpened by it. We lead with clarity, act with integrity. Strength is our choice and our standard. Resilience is our language. Contribution is our calling, the arm, forever strong. Okay, it makes me want to cry because... So I'll just share a little bit about where I feel I am, where the people are that we're working with. We work with a lot of entrepreneurs. We have hundreds of entrepreneurs in our masterminds. We've worked with thousands and thousands throughout the years. And I think that especially right now. I think a lot of people's businesses struggled last year. I think a lot more people's businesses are struggling this year. This is not everybody. But I truly believe throughout my whole entrepreneurship journey, because we have gone up, we've gone down, we've had a lot of money, we've had a little money, we've been freaked out by our bank accounts. Even when people think we have a lot of money, we've invested a lot of money, or our businesses have taken a lot of money. The journey of entrepreneurship is unlike anything I've ever experienced in my life. And I know even people who are career-oriented people listening to this, even your career has ups and downs. And I'm sure you've had multiple different experiences, having to hop around and be afraid of what your future is. And I really believe the people who understand what you just said, and we're going to help them understand, and who have a foundation like this, are going to be the people who are going to be able to survive and thrive. So life is going to go up and down. And Gabrielle, the only I swear to you, because this has been a year of more pressure just growing something I've never grown than I've ever had in my life. And I literally say to my husband every day, I'm like, I don't know how anyone who doesn't have a fitness foundation or workout or know how to eat well, I don't know how they survive this type of pressure that it takes to get to where you want to go. So I actually don't, I believe this component is just as, if not more important than learning a skill set or figuring out your strategy or investing in another mastermind. Like I really believe you also need to be investing in your body. I couldn't agree with you more. And what you're saying is also very true. So in this playbook, the first chapter is actually how to think. How to eat, how to move, how to recover. And I haven't really talked about this in depth before, but there is in the how to think section, it's about expanding your capacity before you need it. It's trying to figure out how you can develop thicker skin and more capability without doing it under duress. And there's ways to build physical friction, which includes training. There's ways to build emotional friction, which is counterintuitive, because one would think that's increasing the stress response. And then there's ways to build mental friction. And again, it seems you would be thinking, well, why would we want to add more friction? Because it's in these small disruptions that you get big change. And for those of you who can see this, there's a big, there's like a hazard here that happens. And then you kind of, if you are not adapting, you go below baseline. But if you learn how to adapt, you have a challenge, you go through it, but you come back up to baseline much faster. And you begin to step up even a little bit more and actually build lasting resiliency, which I think, again, what is it that we're building? We're building our bodies and our minds and our legacies so that we can make the world a better place. It comes from this counterintuitive aspect of adding in small friction. OK, I'm obsessed with this because Chris and I have had a version of this. When I say Chris and I, it's only because I've been married to him for so long. I'm two people. It's like we're 25 years together. We kind of created these theories together. So so we, you know, I really started my life in fitness. That was my career. That was my background. That became my identity. And I'm so grateful for it because like fitness and health runs so parallel to life. It runs so parallel to all these other experiences that I've had that I've I've kind of been able to have this reflection point to go, wait a minute, this is a lot like in fitness where if I want to get stronger, I actually have to break down first. Wait a minute, this is a lot like in fitness where if I want to get to my goal, I can I can make the challenge even harder and the goal will come faster. Like a lot of different things like that where you have to create your own challenge before your face before the world kind of faces you with that challenge. And I can think back to like being a wanting to be a public speaker. And I was like, well, if I want to be a public speaker, but I have massive anxiety, I need to go create these little challenges that that replicate the experience that I'm trying to have in the future, even though I'm afraid of it. So like many moments of speaking in front of a group of four instead of a group of a hundred, you know, so I've always been trying to replicate these challenges. So let's let's dig into that a little bit. What are some things that you have done for yourself? Oh, gosh, well, I would say this whole book experiences is been a challenge. Yeah, everything, you know, I'm a physician by training. There are people that have an entrepreneurial knack and then they're drawn to it. And if I were to ask you, you were a fitness professional, but you were always an entrepreneur. I've always been a physician. And I would say, you know, what do I do on the day to day rule? Right now, the last month has been all friction. Stay on the side of my can laugh, but it's it's real. It's mostly hilarious and then not really. But if I were to say, OK, well, the physical friction, for me, I've been doing cold plungers. I love it. It's amazing. But it's not always comfortable, especially if it's cold outside. It's not fun. You know, it's amazing, but that's kind of the easy stuff. But then there is. Mental friction, I'm going to give you an example of what this is. And this is very hard for me. And so I have this, I have a whole list here, but no music workouts. Now, you know me personally, which are you do? I drink a lot of caffeine and I like my music and I like to get pumped up. And you might find me at any given point in time doing pushups. I'm that person. She is that girl. I got on that girl. But that. Is easy for me. If you take that away, if you take away my ability to listen to a lot of music, to have some caffeine and to get all, you know, pumped up, that creates a lot of discomfort. If I needed to go and just have some tea and train. This would be difficult. And so this has been one of the things is I'm training with no music lately and I absolutely hate it. And I'm going to give you another, another tip so that everyone can do whatever it is that they, however they want to create friction. Now, this is delayed gratification. You flip a coin. What do you love to do? You do. You love to shop. You're a girl after my own heart. Mm hmm. What if you go and you, you flip a coin. Heds, you get to shop. You walk into that store. You get to purchase that thing. And tails, you don't. So you're all pumped up. You're already drive to the mall. Let's say you're going to the mall. You're walking Pat. You're walking into your favorite store. But before you do, you flip a coin. Heds, you get to go and tails you don't. Hmm. How annoyed would you be quite frankly, if you flip the side that didn't let you go in? Yeah, I mean, if I'm already there too, that's really annoying. And let's say you like to go to Starbucks. Heds, you get the coffee tails you don't. Over a period of time, you're like, oh, this is kind of annoying. And then by the fifth time, you don't care so much. And so there's a level of delayed gratification, not celebrating all of your wins or every win, maybe every fifth win. And people will say to me, well, that just seems like you're kind of negative. And the reality is the best entrepreneurs. And I've been taking care of entrepreneurs since for over the last decade. And I take care of all kinds of people, but really on the entrepreneurial spirit. And the best entrepreneurs that I've ever come across are neutral. They never go too high. They never go too low. Because what a beginner entrepreneur, not even beginner, but I would say a less seasoned entrepreneur, and again, some of them would be an entrepreneur for 10 to 50 years, whatever it is, there's a lot of ebbs and flows. And people relate that to be normal, the normal journey of an entrepreneur. But what happens is because of our physiology, the higher we go, the more amped up we go, the lower we fall. I resonate with that so hard. I've gotten pretty good with it now just because I got good with it because I was bad with it. You know what I mean? I got good with it because I was like, whoa, I cannot ride this way. I'm very, I look. I love a high high. I love a high high. And I used to be really okay with the low lows, but they're too frequent when you're in this business. So they're like both of them, they're too frequent. And all of a sudden you can get this very addictive pattern where if I'm not getting it every day or multiple times a day, it's almost like then you get very sad. And so now I've been for the past quite a few years, just been really trying to approach it like you said. I love, I actually love this exercise because it really does train you to not get attached. Like you're kind of just, you're allowing the information in without attaching to it, which is so huge for business, business deals, partnerships, launching a product, thinking you have something and then you don't, that's the ride you guys. You can think you have something great and the next day you don't, and you got to figure out a new path for it. And it's like with those really high emotions, you don't make good decisions. High, high emotions, you don't make good decisions and low, low emotions, you don't make good decisions. I would absolutely agree with you. And it's totally predictable and it's manageable. And the way in which you manage it is not in a big moment, but it's in the small moments leading up and the small moments in between. So, you know, I bet you, and you put on events and dinners and things, can you imagine probably the first five, you would get really young and then right. Oh yeah. Right after you might feel a little pressed. Oh, God, my first event, Gabrielle, depression for like a month. Because that mirrored how high you allowed yourself to go. That depression mirrored how high you allowed your dopamine to drive up. Yeah. So as entrepreneurs, it's very common and it's predictable that as you allow yourself to go high, there is a counterbalancing low. And when we think about what makes entrepreneurs successful in the long run, it's number one, being able to see and think clearly, be very discerning, meaning the right thought leads to the next right action. And then having a level of neutrality and taking away that reactivity so that, you know, as entrepreneurs, you're in it for the long haul and nothing derails you faster than your health, then depression, then that lull after that big sale or big event. And so if it's legacy that we are after, and I'm not talking about legacy from a financial standpoint, but it's really building into this masterful version of yourself, must be steady. You must be capable of going at it for the long haul. And that's what adding in a level of neutrality does. And understanding how to think and how to have a framework. We have frameworks for fitness. We have frameworks for food. We have frameworks for business, but we don't have mental frameworks or guard rails on how to think, be discerning and process information. Oh my gosh, it's I, this is one of the biggest pieces of everything. And I think also for fitness. I have a lot of friends who have really obviously being a trainer too. It's like in the past, really seeing that the thought process is what just kept messing with people and messing them up and getting them off track. I think far more than I got people to lift, I would talk with them the whole session. Like, so I want to kind of chat about that too, as we roll this into the body portion as well. I, some of the most common things that I see are like they get on those high highs or they think that they want to see these results right away and they're not attaching like a bigger reason like this to it. I think for fitness to work and for us to want muscle and for us to eat well, we really have to start to learn how to attach all of these different reasons why we're doing it. What are some of the ways that you have thought about that when it comes to the body that you're like, whoa, people really need to start thinking in this way in order to show up. I mean, the first thing is you have to believe that you're worthy of having the health and wellness that you desire. Yeah. What we double down on is really understanding and I'm looking at this. This is, I'll just show it to you. There's just sections here to think about things, but it's the why that you're doing it and then the knowing that you can do hard things and that you can cultivate whatever it is that you're after. But the reason that, I mean, we have to ask, why did I write a how to think section in a playbook that would anticipate would be for nutrition and movement? Right. Yeah. Well, as a physician, I've seen patients, I finished medical school in 2006. Each patient would come in with a stack of books, of nutrition books, of new diet books, of new training books. And the question is, where's the delta? Why is it that they have information, but they can't translate that information into action? And part of it is I can give you the best product ever, but if you do not have the wherewithal and you have not been disciplined in your thinking, it's never going to happen. And so understanding that there'll be physical, emotional and mental situations that one will encounter and that you have to know who you are at your best. And we all know what that feels like. I know who you are at your best. You know who you are at your best. And then you also have to know, conversely, who you are at your worst. Because they all show up in various amounts. And there's strategies that we use to cope with when we're at our best and strategies that we use to cope with when we're at our worst. And again, this is all trainable, to be able to understand how we need to be discerning and how we need to move off the axe forward to ultimately, what is it that we want? And the body piece is critical. And you, and I'll say this last thing about the mentality is that you use the body to move the mind. Here's what I just, if you imagine just your worst, most stressful day. Yep. And just like terrible. And I could imagine that for you and I could imagine it for myself. It is a visceral reaction. Yeah. Just get the news, your faces, you're just like, visceral reaction. You cannot pray your way out of it. You cannot meditate your way out of it. You cannot talk to a friend out of it. There's no way out. Do you know those moments I'm talking about? Feels like you took a chemical cocktail drug and you can't come down. There's only one way to move off that. One way that I've ever found. Use your body as a tool. Could you imagine getting that information and then going into a cold plunge? There's no way you're thinking about it. Getting that information and doing a max out sprint on an air dime or a skierg or you name it. You couldn't navigate that. There's no way that you would be able to think about all of those things. In a moment of max out effort or physical challenge. And so it is our greatest tool beyond health and fitness, beyond all of these other things. It is your ultimate tool for really mental mastery. I just want to mention that because again, it's difficult. Life is challenging. Getting a great mind frame. Organize is hard, but the body is a tool. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more, when you're starting a business, you need Northwest registered agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it, like operating agreements, meeting minutes and thousands of how to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you, this is life changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. I talk about the importance of sleep and reaching your goals all the time on this podcast, but I also know that you're probably wound pretty tight like I am. And you might have trouble transitioning from your daytime to your nighttime. So I added something that I absolutely love because you know, skin care is a big thing for me in 2026. And I love Osea's dream collection. It's really helped change that for me. Osea's dream night serum and dream night cream are clinically tested formulas powered by bio retinol and designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep. You guys know that I am all about making the things you're already doing work for you. So why not make this work for you in your sleep? So I love this because it really helps me wind down not only because of this beautiful scent and how it feels on my skin, but I'm really loving that it's something that supports my nighttime ritual while I sleep and it helps me settle in for the night because my skin feels so good. And again, it's got that nice lavender scent that I always associate to nighttime sleep because skin care truly is self-care. You guys. So Osea's newest product in the dream collection is the dream bio retinol body serum. And let me tell you skin care for me this year is not just about my face. It's about my whole body. So you should make this a key part of your personal body care routine just like I am. And I think you're going to fall in love with it. So it's a full body restorative treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a holistic blend of bio retinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender. I think the second that you put it on, you're going to feel the difference just like I did. And you're going to see the difference. I mean, talk about looking like glass skin. I literally put it on and actually feel like I want to go somewhere because my skin looks so plump and hydrated and useful. So you guys give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skin care from Osea. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site wide with code earn at OseaMalibu.com. And trust me, you're going to love this so much. You're going to want to buy one for your friends. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo. The all in one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations and AI driven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you've become the leader, that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made the sleep from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried. Because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built in to you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Set up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. I swear by this. I live this. It's it's the only way I've been able to be successful at all. 100% at like so when I was a little girl, I you know, my my family is amazing. They're very loving, but they're also very anxious. They're very depressed. They struggled with money. A lot of just kind of negativity, a lot of religious just heaviness. And so as a young girl, literally, like I remember, like 10 years old, I would leave the house and go move my body when I felt anxious, when I felt stressed, when I felt depressed, when when people were fighting, I would just always go and I'd rollerblade or I'd walk and I would go forever and it would just completely like change my state. And I would think about what I was going to be, what I wanted to do, my hopes for the future. And I did this. I mean, probably my whole childhood, I just went and I moved. And I will tell you that was the difference between, you know, sometimes you look at your siblings or people around you or your your small town. I didn't see anyone else doing that. And looking back, it was like, well, I learned how to change my state. And I learned how to get out of the environment that was causing that particular pain. And I would go move that energy through. And so of course, today, that's so much of what I do. If I get bad news, instead of going to the bottle of wine, which I would love to do. And you know, I like what you know, I like cocktails. You know, I like wine. Literally.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, and maybe a handful of cold plunging. It's these micro moments, Gabrielle, where you're choosing that. You're just choosing to move. And I don't know what else to tell people, but it's been what has saved me from myself. I really like that. I don't think people can appreciate that statement. You found something that was very positive and allowed you to move the needle forward. And I love that. Save you from yourself. We all have these patterns and habits and ultimately our ability to be discerning. And basically what you're talking about is a level of discernment. And I put together this hierarchy chart of thinking through things. Because again, when we think about what is it the outcome? So in medicine, we go, okay, what is the primary outcome? In business, what is the primary outcome? In our life, what is the primary outcome we're looking for? I would argue it's freedom. It's freedom. Whether it is physical freedom, financial freedom, it is freedom. It does not mean shock-bold by someone else or something else. It's the ability to move through life. And I'm just gonna show you, do you see this chart? It's not pretty. Yeah. Yeah. And at the bottom, and for those of you who are listening to this, it's a pyramid and at the bottom is discernment. It's right thought and then right action. And then the discipline to be able to maintain that thought or that action, and then ultimately the freedom comes. And again, we can practice discernment by knowing what is it, what is the outcome that we want? What, where is it that we wanna go? For you, you build businesses. Maybe you pick that one business and then what is that outcome? And being very laser focused on that, when I will tell you, here's the catch. The catch is, as an entrepreneur, you will never go any higher than A, your self-worth and B, your physicality. Mm-hmm. You cannot outwork your biology. And this playbook, again, we're talking about the Forever Shone playbook, it is a tactical field guide to get people there. And you know me both, I mean, you know me very well and you know me on a personal level. This allows a level of, it's like you're, you know how they say you don't have a manual for parenting? Mm-hmm. Like you don't. Yeah. But here you go, here's one for your body. I might not have you covered for parenting, but I have you covered for other things. And this book represents the new guidelines, it has the new dietary guidelines. It has all the information that someone could take to be able to implement very tactically. I love it because it's not, the way that you have it laid out to you guys, it's like such a guidebook with photos, with pictures, with questions. And I love the fact that it starts with the thoughts and that you have the spots to ask yourself all of the questions, which by the way, I know I literally can't get off it, I'll get off it in a second. But the think part is so important. I'm telling you, own a gym for a very long time, had a lot of clients like the online space too, it all came down to what they were thinking and their environment. And if they were capable of kind of changing those, not kind of, if they were capable of following through and figuring out how to think and change those two things. I'm gonna say one more thing, I'm just gonna throw this out there, because again, you mentor a lot of people, people change and there's always an ability to get better, 100%. Now, you know the entrepreneurs that come into your group, I bet off the bat, you know who's gonna be able to be successful. I mean, I heard it's gonna be able to be successful. But I bet there's a handful of attributes or characteristics that these people have that you're like, you know what? She's gonna be able to, she's got it. Do you know what I'm saying? I do. And I don't wanna say that, because we all have to work for it, we do. The reality is is we all have to work for it, but there is definitely a level of capacity that people have and I guarantee you, everyone listening to this or watching this can develop that, whether they have it naturally or not. I agree, there's a lot of verbiage, there's a lot of things they say off the top, there's a way that they carry themselves, there's a way that they, you know, if I'm in a space with them for a long time, the way they choose to move, the food that they choose, there's so many components that go into it that I can see like, oh, this person is gonna go faster or have a better chance, because this person still needs to learn how to think, how to make decisions, how to show up in the room. And so there's absolutely like, there's a set that if I were to write them down, I could tell you exactly what those are. It's cultivatable. Totally. It's cultivatable. And so, you know, I think that understanding that piece, how to think is critical. And then of course, how do we take care of our body? And yes, you know, how to eat and how to move are both critical. Happy to talk about either, because listen, as an entrepreneur, you cannot be held hostage to your own physiology. You cannot outwork your biology and you cannot outsmart your physiology. So you have to become very anchored in a good plan and program to be able to move the needle forward, just to be able to function and to think while it's critical. And you know, when is this coming out? This is coming out soon, right? Like, wait guys, as soon as we can. I gotta tell you what a good friend worry is. Again, in our Tiger ring, I'm like ladies. I'm really behind on being able to bring this book to the world and it's really important. And can you help me? And we are Thursday afternoon on the Tuesday before the book launch. And here you are showing up for me. I am just... You do the same for me. This is what we do. This is literally what we do. And this is needed and it's important. So I'm grateful for you for doing the work so that I can just show up and have the best conversation with you. So I wanna dig into the movement part and the food part because I think a lot of people are absolutely overwhelmed by what to do because now that we have social media, I'm like, okay, so I shouldn't be eating anything because even the healthy food is bad. I'm not in that frame of mind anymore at all. But I think when people don't have... I'm probably even more, way more open than you are Gabrielle, meaning like for food choices. But with that said, what I want people to hear is, can you tell us a good spot to start that doesn't feel overwhelming? Because you know when you're already doing projects and you're already going for the big thing, it's like my brain sometimes can only handle so much. And I'm like, okay, I know that this is the top of what I should be doing, but can you kind of tell me the bottom of what will work as well? Yes, and you make a really good point. When you are overwhelmed, it seems like there's no cognitive capacity. And so what I did is I designed a plan that you don't have to think about. Just visually on your plate. I mean, it's not going to get any simpler than this. Are you ready? Are you ready for it? It is a food that is broken in two thirds. That's it. Protein is your focal point on the bottom. Dietary protein, everything has protein in it. Now even Starbucks coffee, which is hilarious. Dietary protein, it can be animal, it can be plant-based. Just get your protein in. Obviously I love animal-based proteins. This is chicken, beef, fish, egg, yogurt. One third of your plate is protein. One third of your plate is fruits or vegetables. And then if you're training, one third of your plate is starchy carbs. That's it. No thinking. And the entrepreneur is like, oh my God, I don't have time for this. I'll take it down another notch. If you don't want to look at your plate, totally fine. But what you have to do, and this is really important, because this is a non-negotiable and you have to get the food piece right. And I'm not talking about anything to do with aesthetics, looking good, has nothing to do with that. You do have to get the food piece right because it's what powers your brain. It's what powers your ability to actually do the work that you need to do. And what I want is I want no less than 100 grams of protein. Step up, 100 grams of protein. To be a weight protein shake with 20 to 50 grams in one sitting and then another protein shake, just get 100 grams of protein. And I bet you, I bet you your world changes. Simplify. That's it, you prioritize protein, you eat whole foods. Work place to start. I'll wait to see if you've got questions for that. Like instead of spaghetti and meatballs, it's meatballs and spaghetti. Totally. So that changed my life. And I am such a protein girl. And so I actually, we'll see if this is right or not, but I have an unlimited protein. Like I can have as much lean protein as I want in one sitting, which you tend to not want a massive pile of protein, so I'm not too concerned about it. But that changing changed my life. I was like, I'm never gonna measure my protein because I'm meaning like I'm gonna eat a lot of it. And I bet I settle around the 50-ish gram, maybe some of 60 gram of protein in one to two meals per day because I was like, well, if I can eat unlimited healthy protein, it doesn't leave a whole lot of room for other things. And if you kind of like eat it a little bit slower, once that protein hits your stomach, you're like, damn, that's a lot of food. That's some dense food. So that actually really changed my life, like years and years ago, where, you know, I think in the beginning, it was important for me to learn nutrition and measure and do all the things, but I became a slave to it. And I wanted to like be free of that. So I was like, okay, how should I eat? And it was like, okay, well, unlimited veggies and unlimited lean protein. And then just kind of watch your starches. And that actually changed the game for me. And so I'm a huge protein girlie. I'm 45. I have a shit ton of muscle. Like honestly, I like my body more now than I've ever liked it. And it's like, it is truly because I have been a consistent lifter three times a week. Sometimes it's heavy, sometimes it's lighter, but it's always weights and lots of protein. It is transformative because here's why. Are you ready? We're at this. When you don't think about your body, you have freedom. If you are not. Freedom. I spent so many years thinking about my body composition. Same. If I, and I have never shown these photos before, but I think I should. Now you know me, for those of you don't, I'm a lot of mouth and a little person. Five foot one, maybe a buck 10. And I have photos of me. I was 145 pounds. And I should really start to share. And I was consumed. I was consumed with food. I was consumed with weight. And I spent so much of my life not being able to be present. Ah, same. You know what I'm talking about? I lived that way and it ruins your life. It ruins your life. It's not, it doesn't have any, there's no freedom. And so if you prioritize dietary protein, you know, there's a lot of discussion about these GLP ones. One of the reasons they work is they increase the tidiness, meaning you're full on work. And also it slows gastric emptying down. But more importantly, is it quote, almost augments your willpower? You don't have this desire to eat the cupcakes or the cookies that are at the office or any of those things because you're just not thinking about it, it quiets the food noise. Yeah. And your protein does that. Again, you probably have structures in your business. You wake up, you go through email, you do X, Y, and Z. This is no different. You wake up, you have your protein shake, you brush your teeth. And what it does is, again, it's not even about aesthetics. It's once you have your dietary protein, you're hitting, there's essential amino acids. You guys don't care about what that is. Your group might need, I'm sure they know, but it's essential nutrients that you need, that you cannot make that help with brain function, help with neural transmitters, help with gut health, all of these separate things. But if you anchor that first meal right, you don't have to think about the rest. And that becomes critical. Again, it's how do we have good brain power? How do we have good strength? How do we have more freedom? And how do we teach ourselves to be discerning, meaning focusing on the things that matter and being able to turn away from the things that don't? And ladies, I've been doing a lot of research because of Glossy around things that you need to make your Botox work, your Sculptural work, to look younger, to have muscle in your body and in your face, like there's muscles in your face. We need amino acids for a lot of those things to work properly. So don't waste your money if you're not getting your amino acids. Truly, it's such a game changer. It's critical. It's a critical part of health and wellness. And you need more of it as you age. You don't need life. And it's the most important essential nutrient. And also, you've heard this message to go more plant-based and it's not the right message. And evidence doesn't support that. And what ends up happening is then I get these women in my clinic that for the last seven years have tried to go more plant-based. And when I say plant-based, the best of both worlds is plant and animal. I was plant-based for many years until my hair started falling out, Keith got weak. And then you waste so much time. And really, the goal of this playbook is there's a lot of different ways to do things right and it teaches you. If you wanna be more plant-based, okay, but here's the way to do it so that you don't have to think about it. And so it's not all consuming. And what's missing in the plant-based that is different than an animal? And can animal also just be fish for people? Or a great question. Yes. Plants and animal sources of protein, plants, many plants have all the essential amino acids, but the volume at which you would have to consume them are much higher. Meaning if you like quinoa, when you go to New York, it's you go to this fresh press or whatever it's called. And it says these little quinoa bowls and it's like, here's your protein power. But it would take six cups of quinoa to equal, small chicken breasts. It's gonna be real bloated. Exactly. And it's very misleading. And the other aspect of it is that the protein in plants is typically bound to fiber, the whole, and a lot more calories. So for example, if you're gonna have a cup, two cups of beans, that's a lot more carbohydrates. Therefore, if one is going plant-based for their, quote, health, I would advise against it. If it's for a moral reason, then we'll figure it out. But if we're talking about nutrient density, which means how many vitamins and minerals are in, you know, and macronutrients in a serving, animal-based products are very nutrient dense. It has high quality B12 and zinc and iron. Most women of childbearing age, many of them suffer from anemia. That, or if you're getting your period. And so how do we choose a nutrition plan that needs all of our needs so that we feel great and have more energy and age well? This is why it becomes so important. To your original question is, could it just be fish? It could just be fish. Again, we're looking for B12, zinc, iron. Those are not very bioavailable in plants. And again, we just have to think, how do we design a diet that supports what we are doing? Okay, there's so much in this book. But Gabrielle, I feel like, you know, when I get to be in these rooms with you where maybe people don't, like they don't get to know like the deep, deep passion. And I mean, you are just so fiery. And you know, I'm so attracted to that. I'm like a fire sign. I'm obsessed with anyone who has that passion around this message of protein, of health, of muscle, as longevity. Tell me, like what are some things, because we don't have a lot of time left, but I want to know, what do you want people to know? Like what do you need them to understand? Okay. We're talking about muscle and we're talking about protein. But what I really want is I want to build stronger, more resilient humans. And there is no way to do it without taking care of our physicality, period end of story. Muscle is the organ of longevity. It is also the tool for self mastery. And there is going to be a moment where you don't get to use that anymore. And while we're talking about all these other things, what we're really talking about is having a collective vision of building a stronger, more resilient human. So that they can go out and you can go out and do better work. Do the hard thing. It's worth it. Small friction, big change. Nutrition, you don't have time to be confused. We have to lean in to good scientific evidence in a way that is off our plate. We are not thinking about it. I don't want you to everything about protein or everything about your training again. I want you to know what you have to do and to go out and execute. And from the body perspective is there's no way around resistance training. A stronger, faster body is a stronger, faster mind. A large portion of the brain is designed for movement. If you want to think fast and be a better entrepreneur, you have to be able to move fast. Two other things. Ladies, you're not gonna get bulky. No, I'm lifting my toddler and each other for the last seven years, I'm still trying to get bulky. And you've lifted weights for whole life. Don't say that you haven't. You've lifted luggage, you've lifted groceries, you've lifted suitcases, you've lifted in your house, you're lifting, you've lifted your dog, you've lifted weights for whole life. Strength is a responsibility. It's not a luxury. And there are many different domains of strength, but it does start with this foundational architecture of the human being. Oh my God, amen. I feel like sometimes it's so funny, I can kind of get away from that message, but I'm living that message. Does that make sense? Like that is so important to me. I live it, I wake up with it. I know how important it is for me to do all of the work that I do. Even this podcast, like all of the things to have the brain space, to be able to have the consistency to like myself enough to continue on and find new things to be interested in and go out in the world and continue to believe that my life is still in front of me at 45 rather than behind me. Like if I didn't have fitness and health as a foundation, I think I'd be a very different 45 year old. I don't think, I know. Cause this is a really interesting place for people. And anyone listening who's around this age group, I'm finding this is a really unique age to be right now. And I think a lot of people are feeling like life is behind them, like their best days are behind them, like their best body is behind them. And they're feeling really hopeless. And this, everything that you just said is how I live my life. And I want to live it even more that way because now I'm even more passionate because I know you and I get to hear this message all the time. But that is the difference between feeling like life is starting to be over and that we're just getting started. And I don't care where you are listening to this. If you feel, maybe you do feel hopeless, maybe you do feel like it's too late. It's astounding how many people I've seen turn their lives around in six months to a year. Like absolutely flip it on their heads. And just the fact of eating the way that you have in your book, which I highly recommend getting so you can really understand it because I do believe there's an anchoring that happens and understanding that will help you do it. You can listen to the podcast, but once you read the book and you learn, learning anchors the why. Like so deeply with nutrition and you go, oh, wait, I'm not just eating because I want to look good. I'm eating because this is giving me this serotonin or dopamine or muscle or whatever it is that you learn about that anchors you. And it's going to give you this whole other half of your life that maybe the best half hasn't even happened yet. And so I believe by you making stronger humans, Gabrielle, I mean, it just makes everybody better. It gives hope, it's happier. It's like there's so much out there for people and it's all going to start here. It's not going to start with what you're doing and what your work is. It's going to start with how you're feeding yourself, treating yourself and how you're thinking. I couldn't agree with you more and I've seen it in action. And again, people will be like, oh, I'm here to learn business and I would say, yes, absolutely you are. But there is no way around this piece. It's actually the path. It's just the path. So I'm just so grateful that you're up for chatting about it. And I promise, I promise you guys reading this book, if this book was the book I wanted to write, it has recovery tools, which by the way, friends, recovery is not a hot bubble bath. It has hot protocols, ice protocols, cold protocols, recipes, which by the way are amazing and they're easy because I'm hands down the worst cook you've ever met. Ever. And I just know that this book is going to, it's going to change people's lives because there's so much science out there and so much information. But this is the field guide manual out of it. And you know me very well. I do not say that. No, you really don't. And it's really, really amazing. OK, so I want to do a book giveaway. So I'm buying for the first people for the first people who share this episode tag at Dr. Gabrielle Lyon and say the biggest takeaway from this podcast. We will send you a book. I will buy up to, we'll do the first 10 people who do it. So make sure you tag you guys and then I'll send you a book. OK, so grateful for you. What else should they know? Any last words? We take patients. Strong medical. Yes. Learn all about it at Dr. Gabrielle Lyon.com. And depending on when you're watching this, Dr. Gabrielle Lyon.com slash playbook with a ton of free giveaways. You have an amazing telehealth practice called Strong Medical. I have a great podcast called the Dr. Gabrielle Lyon Show. We talk to all the world leading experts on various health topics. And yeah, you can find me on Instagram and OnlyFans. I'm just kidding. I'm not. There's also nothing wrong with that. I was like, did you put your feet on there or what? Yeah, it's actually my. Like biceps. It's just biceps. It's my hands. Yes, great. But I believe that I can change the world. But I don't believe I can do it alone. And I believe that we collectively can. And you already are. So fun to watch you on your mission and all of the crazy things that you have already been able to do in the last couple of years that I've even known you. So I'm so grateful for you. And you guys, again, just for that giveaway, give her a tag. Give me a tag as well at Lori Harder so I can see it, so I can track it. And all you have to do is take a screenshot of this podcast that you're listening on, upload the screenshot with her tag, with the biggest takeaway from the show, and I will message you, get your address, and send you her book. All right, I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you. Love you, friend. Love you, friend.