 2026, with just the change of algorithms, you really need to have a point of view. Otherwise, you're literally just a vanilla ice cream cone that everyone's scrolling past. Seriously. If you don't have a point of view, you're done. When we work on social, we think about three things. What value are you bringing? What vibe are you bringing? And then what can you say that has viral-worthy potential? And usually that part's a little scary. And you're welcome to the podcast. Hi. I'm so happy to be here with you. I'm so excited. Thank you for making the trip down. Of course. You're in Los Angeles. I am. So I'm not even sure how I found you, but I'm so glad that I did, probably because you're great at social. Thank you. The thing that I really am desperately trying to be right now. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I'm so excited to be here with you right now. Thanks so much. Yeah. You really, in a world of a whole lot of people doing what you do, you really stand out. And I think one of the coolest things is because of that, I've worked with so many different people who I'm like, wait, shouldn't your social look good if you're going to help me with that? Right. Yeah. Well, what's funny is I was very resistant about actually supporting clients, women, people with social because I was like, I mean, I'm good at it, but I don't really want this to be my thing. Yeah. And I'd come from a corporate background where I was doing, I was a marketing strategist and then of course social started becoming what social of course is. And I was like, hmm, I could really, really help people with this and I love working with female founders. So I was doing a lot of consulting with female founders before I was bringing social into the conversation and inevitably all the conversations were like, but how are you doing that social thing you're doing? And I was like, this has to be like a key thing to do in the business. I mean, it all leads back to eyeballs like marketing. Totally. It leads back to your background of how do we get more eyeballs? How do we get attention? Yeah. And you've just figured out how to take what you did in the past, which I'd love for you to dive just a little bit in your background and we'll pull that forward into what you're doing. Yeah, totally. So I spent about a decade working with the brand of Ada with that with Estee Lauder and I was I started in sales when I was really, really young. I started with that company when I was like 22 and I worked my way up really quickly and I never really wanted to be in sales. Funny that I'm like, I didn't want to do social. I don't want to do sales. But I know life just tells you what you're going to do. But I loved being with small business owners. I loved being with hairdressers. I loved being with makeup artist. I wanted to be with like the creative people, people that were like in it doing the thing. And in the world of Estee Lauder and Aveda, that's the work I was doing was getting to spend time with hairdressers, makeup artists, salon owners and inevitably building great relationships with them meant being good at sales. So I was I was like 28 and I was like the VP of distribution for the brand and really thought I would probably spend my entire career in some sort of corporate beauty role and I got to I don't know about 10 years in and I was like, oh wait, like I think there's other things to me that I need to explore. And so I left on really great terms and stayed a consultant for for that company for many, many years, which really kicked off me my my opportunity to start being a consultant. But that's where I like really grew up is working inside a corporate beauty brand. What did you learn about yourself throughout those careers? Like what were some of the main themes that came through that you're like, oh, I'm really good at this. Like you started to really figure out your skill set in zone of genius. Yeah, I remember being in one of my first like big deal meetings as a VP and I was very much one of the only women in the room. I was definitely the only person in their 20s in the room. Where was that crazy intimidating? Oh hell yeah. I mean, it was totally crazy. There was I remember that meeting. There was two other women in the room and there was probably it was like maybe 1516 people and the rest were gentlemen and they're 50s and beyond. So I'm like in the room and I had like studied. I like knew the financials. I knew I knew everything I needed to know to show up and be really like good in that meeting. And at the end of the meeting, one of those two women who had had, you know, had to do a lot to be there themselves said to me, she was like, you did great today. You obviously know your stuff. But the thing that we know you have that we didn't see today is you have a deep sense of of what's really going on with our customer because you listen to your intuition so much when you're out there with them. I want you to do that in here too. Wow. So I like immediately was like, oh, they want me here because my gut is good that I have. I have a good sense of what we should do as a brand and I don't need to let these these guys intimidate me. Otherwise, it wouldn't be her. What a gift she gave you totally like still someone I call occasionally. I'm like, hey girl, oh my God, like that's giving me chills because sometimes people offer us those little gifts that like if that wouldn't have happened, you may not have leaned so hard into trusting yourself, which is clearly where your genius is coming from as well. Yeah. Wow. What a gift. Okay. So your intuition through like really deeply trying to understand the customer. What were some of the things that you were doing with that customer that was like revealing what they wanted or like was their questions? What were you putting them through? So most of the people that I was working with like the customer I was working with was they were small business owners. So they were salon and spot owners that were carrying the products that that we sold. And then at the end of the day, they the customer also became the people who worked inside their businesses. So the hairdressers and the makeup artists working or the estheticians working inside their businesses. And so what I really needed to understand is what gets them excited about doing their best work as hairdressers and makeup artists. I love creatives. I love artists like that's my people. So if I could understand what was really going to get them excited to do better work, then they were going to inevitably sell more product because they were going to be doing better work and the salon owner would be more successful because they are having greater sales and then they would be really happy with what I had done with their hairdressers and makeup artists. And then my bosses would be excited because they're like whatever you did in there today, sales are up. Yeah. So, you know, the thing that I really had to learn the long story of that is what motivates people to do their best work and how can they show up in a way that is true to them, but that's really like elevating every single day. And if I can help people do that and they're reaching their potential, then I'm in turn, I'm going to reach mine. I love that. Tell me a little bit about the sales portion. So you said, okay, I didn't want to be in sales. Right. How do you, obviously if they're putting you there, it's because you're good at it. What were some of the things that you noticed that were like your natural inclinations that you leaned into for sales? Tell me a little bit about that. Yeah. I think I'm mostly and I think salespeople who I think today we kind of know this is a thing. People who do all in sales are just great relationship builders. They build trust really naturally with people and that is something I definitely do. And so when you told, you know, 22 year old me, you're going to go be in sales. That's felt like it was going to be slimy and I think we still kind of can have that feeling when we're selling. So I had to think about, okay, what actually am I great at? I am great at building relationships. I'm great at seeing people's potential. I'm great at helping motivate people. And in turn, there's a product that I represent in that job that they will get excited about. And I think that applies, you know, very much as a woman who has multiple companies now and working with female founders. We, I'm sure you hear this all the time too. We still kind of feel like sales is slimy. We don't want to do it. Selling on social feels slimy. We don't want to do it. But if we think about it as a relationship building mechanism, then it's a whole lot easier to do. I completely flipped how I view sales because technically for anyone listening, like you're doing sales in your life all the time. All day long. Yeah. Like you're selling yourself. You're selling. Yeah. You're literally selling like your children every day. Meaning like you're selling an idea of what you want in your life and you don't even realize that you're probably a great salesperson in certain departments. Right. And it's like reverse engineering that to something that you do want to do and make money from, which we're totally getting to in just a minute. Okay. So tell me how the studio came about. We eat studios and you also have a physical product, which we will get into, which I absolutely love because you're helping people with the thing you're also in. Yeah. It's been for me like as someone who helps entrepreneurs to be in multiple things that I'm like, Oh no, I've been in your shoes. I have felt this pain. I know exactly what to do here. Or like we're going to get through this. Yes, this might be hard, but let's let's figure it out and you can find like a great angle for yourself or whatever that looks like. So I love that you do that because it can make you like the authority and the expert in that. Totally. Okay. So tell me about how the studio started how and what that all does and how you help people within that. Yep. Absolutely. Okay. So the studio started after I had probably been I'd probably spent about maybe five or six years as a consultant and I also was working as a travel blogger. Okay. Very much a working travel blogger and then 2020 hit and travel bloggers were not traveling. Oh yeah. Right. So I was like, let me write about my living room again. Right. I was like, okay, I'm going to make zero dollars this year. You know, obviously like in the old days of blogging, you actually could also make money on, you know, just revenue coming in from people reading the blog before it was just the blogging men Instagram. Yeah. So I, you know, I still had some of that going on, but I was having this moment of like, okay, I'm doing a lot of consulting with big brands and my travel blogging gig is about to be on serious pause. So like, what does that look like for me next and what feels important? And so we're in the midst of the pandemic and what I was noticing is so many women in my life and my community were in the midst of some sort of pivot during that time. So here I am consulting with like big corporate brands and I'm seeing all of these women who are like, I think I'm going to step into entrepreneurship. I think I'm going to try this thing. I've, you know, we're all like figuring it out right now. So what really occurred to me was that what I was doing as a consultant, I wanted to be able to duplicate that for especially for female founders and especially for the women that I was witnessing trying to figure it out. So I was like, what if I take this marketing work, this like I was doing a lot of like executive coaching also, what if I take all of this that I'm doing in a corporate environment and make this available to indie brands and female founders, creatives and artists. So that was really the genesis of Wee Wee Studio. And so I launched it then and so the way that the way that I thought about building it was, okay, we'll still have this, this place where we consult and we go into brands, but then we'll also have courses, memberships, masterminds, tool kits, things that are accessible for founders no matter where they are on the way. And sometimes that may also mean that we're going in and doing consulting with them, but a lot of times that meant especially at that point in time that they needed something lower, lower ticket ultimately, and they weren't going to be able to pay a consulting fee like a big brand would. So I was like, what if we just make this all available? And then what is it that we ultimately do? And so when I really like looked at what feels like the most important thing, it's helping brands and founders get visibility. And so that's really how we talk about the studios. That's what we do. We help you get visibility in whatever way that is for you, whether you're a big corporate brand and you need some sort of kind of new look at how your products sit in the marketplace or you're a female founder and you're just getting started. When I say we, we have a small team, you know, it's not like I'm running an office with like 20 marketers, it's me plus four women and we started from there in 2021 and now here we are. Wow, I love that. So small team, you tell me about your ideal client. Like tell me about who mostly comes here. We were kind of, yeah, we were kind of talking about that because I was like, here's how I found you. Here was my struggle. Yep. And I'll just share what we had said. I said, you know, the reason I was attracted to your page and what you do is because I had come from a different industry. I'd come from like digital products, coaching, masterminds, books, events and while that was like that was doing really well, the messages, the more you do get get confusing and then now throw in that I have a physical product and I felt I still feel it's getting better, but like so spread thin and when I go to social, it's like a giant clusterfuck because my messages are all over the place. I'm like, what do I talk to first? Who do I talk to? Like who's my demographic in this one? Who's my demographic in this one? And it's almost like I feel like for creative people, what can happen? Is it just you go into avoidance because there's just too much. So that's where I was and I'm like, no, Lori, you have to sit and you have to learn this. Like you have to figure this out. Yeah. And so that's where, you know, I found your page. I found a few other people's pages, but you really helped me with a few just like understanding like how can I have some key messages around each thing that I'm doing? So tell me about your client. Cause I feel like her, but tell me your ideal. Yeah. Well, that you just described. That's it. That's the client. I mean, what we see now, the women that are coming into the studio now are typically just like what you're describing. They've built something, whether it be, we have a lot of women that come in that have been creators, they've been influencers. They've built a personal brand and now they also have one product brand, a second product brand, or they've, they've got a book deal or they did, they're doing Ted talks or things of that sort. And they're trying to, they're trying to sort out how do I show up as me and how do I also support the products or the brands or the things that I'm doing and how do I stay? How exactly what you're talking about? How do I stay really aligned to what that looks like and get the best results? And how do I figure out who my people are? And what if I have people that sit in like multiple seats with all the things that I do? So that's what we see a lot. That's, that's the clients that come in that really want like the deep brand work. We also have a mastermind program called the Colt brand blueprint accelerator and in that program, it's a whole lot of startups. We have lots of female founders who are building some sort of startup business, whether it's CPG or a service style business. It's a little more CPG on that side of things, but in their case, they're usually like, I'm launching a beauty brand or I'm launching a wellness company or I'm launching an app. I'm launching something and I'm trying to figure out what does that look like and how do I as the founder show up? So it's a bit of both of those two things. Yeah. The landscape has changed so much where yes, we knew the founder was showing up and that can really push sales. And of course we've seen people who are already big influencers and celebrities do it. Yeah. But now it's kind of like, no, you need to have a face. Like especially, I think something that's game changing with what you do is, you know, when you can gain visibility as a founder, you are saving so much marketing money. So true. It's insane because I think about, you know, and now I have a co-founder and for anyone listening, like when I brought that co-founder in, it was about how visible can she make us? Because you can buy, I could pay a lot of people for talent for different things, but what you can't pay for is somebody who can organically get a lot of eyeballs, like who understands how to do that and who understands how to do sales. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built-in CRM and reach them through email and SMS and boost retention with powerful automations, effortlessly create, personalize multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time. And that's not all. Brevo offers AI-driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY to save 50% on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about, but then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not going to feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video. Just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your Aura Frames for that special person on your list that you really want to feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it for a limited time. Save on the perfect gift by visiting Aura Frames.com to get $35 off Aura's bestselling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wirecutter by using promo code, earn at checkout. That's AuraFrames.com, promo code, earn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. So I think for, you know, maybe someone who isn't super visible yet or a founder who's like, no, I need to be a more visible founder. Like you're the things that you teach are so incredible for that. And you can really, what I'm finding is just consuming so much content and looking at so many different things. And what I love about your content is I do believe with what you do, you can make people the authority pretty quickly. I think so too. I mean, what's been interesting in the seat I sit in because I'm also in process of launching a brand is I went through exactly the work that we do myself. Yeah, it's so powerful. I mean, I had to because I, I since 2021 have been the founder of Wee Wee Studio. So the way I was typically running Wee Wee Studio in terms of driving sales was on my personal page, which is Wee Wee Girl, which is my old blog name, which is why it's called Wee Wee Studio and Wee Wee Girl. So I was like, I just have to run this one page, just got to do me on this page and I will drive sales into my business. It's great. It's easy. Then three years ago, I started working on the beauty brand and I was like, there's going to be a moment where I have to be the founder of two. So I can't only drive Wee Wee Studio on my personal page. I have to really now establish Wee Wee Studio as its own standalone thing and it's going to have to do its own work. Still means I'm behind it, but it has to have its own voice, its own point of view and it has to fit me, but it can't be me. It can't just be me. So I had to think about that and then start thinking about now, how do I on my page start talking about the fact that, oh, and I'm now launching a beauty brand. So you know me as well for my long time people, they knew me as a travel blogger. So like, you've known me as a travel blogger and then I launched this studio and oh, and now I'm launching a beauty brand. So I had to think through all of that in a really big way. And so probably, I guess like six months ago, I like made a really like really hard fast decision that we were going to double down on everything we were doing with Wee Wee Studio on its own independent page and really drive business through that page. So I took my old podcast page, which was totally dead. I'd like kind of never done anything with it and was like, this is now the Wee Wee Studio page. It's going to go hard and it really has and it's like it does its job now. Yeah. That's a hard thing to for a lot of founders who have visibility already, but then they've got all these things going on. They're like, do I start another page? Do I change the name of my handle? Like what do I do? Like who am I supposed to be? Who is the brand supposed to be? Where do I sit amongst all of this? And it's a it's it's it's a lot to figure out. Yeah. So let's start there because I I really think from what I know about my audience that a lot of them are multi passionate. Yeah. They are either in something right now or then they have a side hustle or they are very successful and they are spread thin and they're doing multiple things. Yeah. So let's use that avatar. Let's use somebody who has multiple things going on. Yeah. A lot going on in their head. They get very confused when they go to sit down to get visibility. Yeah. Anything. What's my messaging across this platform? This platform, email all the things. Yeah. What would you say? Where do we start? Like what does that whole process look like? Yeah. So typically the first thing that we would want to do and this, you know, you hear the idea of, oh, go do your ideal client work. So we hear that a lot. But the way I like to think about it a little bit differently is rather than calling it ideal client work, let's build a vision board of all the different people that sit in your kind of like in your space and not your vision board for them. Like what is their vision board? Then figure out where do you exist in their vision board? So if I'm thinking about that for you, Lori, so one of the things I might think about is the woman who has Lori on her vision board, what about you? Is she excited about? And then does she also have your product brand on her vision board? Does she have your books on her vision board? So maybe she has all of those and like that's your like perfect, perfect client, right? But then there's going to be the other one who's like, I'm here for Lori's brand, like I'm here for Glossy. Like that's what I'm excited about is like what that can do for me. So then when they see you talking about that, then they're like, oh, I'm also into like what Lori's got going on. So you have to start thinking about like who are the people, where do you fit into their life? And typically people are buying one of two things. They're buying the effectiveness of what the product is going to do to make their life better or they're buying the identity. Like how, how that product, how that product like puts them into some sort of belonging and whether or not it like really like works for them. Like hopefully it does, but that's not the first thing they're thinking about. So like brands that like come to mind that everybody knows like Spanx is an easy one. Like there's a, there's something that's like when Spanx launched all the women that bought it were like, Oh, well, I needed this. It like does something for me. And then you also wanted to identify as a Spanx wearer cause they're like, you had a secret kind of. So like there's brands that can do both. And then there's brands that do one or the other really well. So the work I really like to start with is how can we create a world where you're doing both? And maybe the product is sitting on that vision board in some capacity and the identity sits on it in another capacity and then think about how you show up. And share a bit of both of those things. And that's kind of the starting point. Then you got to like map out. Okay. So then what's the messaging? What do we say? One of the things we do a lot of work around is what are your community mantras? Like what do people repeat back to you enough so that it starts to feel like they're in on something, which is like the best loyalty builders when like women feel like they're in a club and like have something to say back to you and they all know it. So that's something we spend time on is like really like thinking about what the, that set of language might be. Brand rituals is a really important one. Like does your brand do something special that when the customer experiences it, they're like, Oh, that, that's like, that's super cool. And I want to be a part of that. A really nice example that I saw recently was, um, SIF from Array, the brand Array, was talking about how when they first launched, they put a Polaroid picture in every box that they packed before it went out. Just like a really nice little brand ritual touch that people would get the picture and like post on stories like, Oh, I just got my Array. Here's my picture of SIF and Nish like packing the box. It's just like cute little like thing that you can't scale, but at the beginning it creates this like, this like connectedness. So those are some of the things I would start with first is what's that vision board of the person, the perfect person? What's the language? What's the mantras you want them using? What's the rituals that you can invite them into? And you can think about that in each like kind of like each bucket of, of who the whole of you and your brand or brands is. What do you see when those customers come in? What's something that you're like, Oh gosh, let's clean this up right away. What are some common, common things that you're seeing out there that when you scroll past, it's just like, Oh, that's a, you know, that's something I would not know. Yeah. Okay. So people talk all the time about like, you should build in public, build in public, build in public. And I don't think that's inherently wrong, but I think there's a difference in building in public and brainstorming in public. And what I wouldn't do and what I see happen a lot is on someone's launching a brand and they've got the brand page already set up and they're like real hard experimenting in public. And so you're the brand identity is a mess. Yeah. And that feels, it doesn't mean you shouldn't show all the things that it's taking behind the scenes to make it happen. But if it's like, you're just doing a brainstorm and you haven't really landed on the perfect person, what that vision board is going to become, what the, what the language is. If you haven't gotten that part right and you're like playing with like, do we speak luxury or do we speak relatability or do, are we premium or are we, are we like accessible and you're like playing all of that out in front of a future audience and then like you don't kind of like get it dialed pretty fast. That I feel like kind of doesn't work. What I would do all day long is experiment on, on your personal page, like tell the truth about what you're figuring out. Like we're trying to decide, are we luxury? We're trying to decide, are we accessible? But I wouldn't do it on a brand page and I see a lot of founders come in and they're like, here's my brand page and it's like, it feels like a mess. And so then they're like, but I haven't really talked about any of that on my personal page because I really am just trying to like get people excited about the brand and it's like, no, do it the other way around. Get the brand really, really right and then play on your page and let people like find their way in to the brand that already looks and feels pretty good. Even if you have to change it later, change it later, but like don't let it be a mess at the beginning. I've been guilty of that. Yeah, it's normal. It's totally normal. But definitely now I'm like, okay, how about we get more dialed first? I mean, I did it with Casanoon with the beauty brand. I like had packaging that we ended up scrapping that I like had whole photo shoots. Oh yeah. You know, like, I think we all do that at some point and we're like, this is it. I got to show the people and then I was like, well, that was like scrapped every bit of that archive. Every one of those photos. I've done it multiple times. I'm a fast start to like, I'm just like, get it out. Yeah. Dang it. Yeah. As I get older, you know, it's only taken me like 45 years, but right. So I get older and like, okay, like good things need a second. They do. They just need a second. Like no matter how good that you have been at winging it, I especially think moving forward into 2026. Like I think things need to be more thoughtful. Totally. And what you said is brilliant. It's like still show the build because people need to see the behind the scenes, but I think like what you're rolling out with. Exactly needs to be thoughtful. So in terms of.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, Okay, I've got a product, but I don't have like a world yet. And so you want people to feel like they're a part of the building of the world. And then when the world drops, it's like, oh, I got to be a part of that all the way. And now here's the world. And then the world needs to feel really good. Yeah. I, for anyone listening like this actually is, is such a weakness for me. Like in terms of, I aesthetically know what looks great. I can be very drunken. I can decorate my house. I can dress myself. But when it comes to actually putting like my brand visuals out, I needed, I needed a lot of help around it. So I don't want people to, to feel deterred by it because there are people like you who can help. There are a lot of people out there who are really good at it. It doesn't have to be your absolute skill set for rolling out a brand. It certainly helps. Yeah. But you can find people. Totally. And I think if, if like, if you're listening and you're like, but I'm just, I don't even know where to begin. And I'm not quite at a place where I want to go hire someone to help me with this. One of the things that we recommend a lot. And I, and I, when I see someone do this, while I get really excited about it is like, look at what, look at the space that you're about to, that you're launching into. So like, let's pretend you're launching a wellness brand. Go look at that space. Go look at what everybody's doing. And then think about what you can do differently that's going to make you, like you personally and your brand that you're building have its own distinct personality. So in the world of wellness, you're probably seeing like a lot of neutrals, a lot of like, you know, a lot of pastels, a lot of like handwritten fonts, a lot of things that feel kind of like elegant, really, really like soft and pretty. What if you took that and then think about what, what your personality is about and brought something that's like quite unique and your own point of view and start there before you even go hire someone to help you build a brand and see what you come up with. And like a nice example of that might be the open app and open, if you've been to the open studio in Venice, they are a wellness studio meditation app. Everything looks like futuristic. It's all like, it's all like shape driven. Like even when you walk in the studio, it's like there's a big round like sunlight in the middle of the room. And they started really as like, this is a meditation app. And like what we know of meditation apps is like calm and headspace and all of those types of things. And they're like pretty blues with script and then open is like silvers, blacks, golds, like really like deep colors. So the difference is it feels like this is like smart, interesting meditation. And this feels like intro meditation. So like call-nap feels like intro meditation, not about things, just what they are. And you can tell the people behind open, we're like, we want to be meditation for like luxury level, smart thinking type of people. And if they had just done like the same blues with like nice pretty script, it just would have felt like another meditation situation. And they've grown tremendously from like thinking about what's our what's our person? Where do we sit on their vision board? And what's the point of view that we have that's quite different from everything else that's already out there? So if you can start there, you can start to think about, well, where do I want to what do I look like feel like sound like, etc. in the market before I even have to go hire a brand person? OK, so 2026 definitely with just the change of algorithms and the tick tockification of algorithms, like you really need to have a point of view. Yeah, you really need to stand out. Yeah, you otherwise you're literally just a vanilla ice cream cone that everyone's scrolling. Like it is gotten. It's real this year. You're just algorithm wallpaper. For sure. We were talking some I mean, I'm we see it in we work with so many different businesses you do to. Yeah. And it's like you really have to get a point of view. You have to. And so what would you say for like this next year and potentially moving forward? Yeah. How do we stand out? Like what? Yeah, what does that look like? Yeah, you you're so right. Like if you don't have a point of view, you you're just you're done. You're done in the water. So the three when when we work on social, we have our clients think about three things. So we think about what value are you bringing? What vibe are you bringing? And then what can you say that has viral worthy potential? And that's usually where that point of view piece comes in. So and usually that parts a little scary because it's like, well, if I say this and I really believe this, then I'm talking about that. Yeah, like it might be bad attention or maybe you know, maybe you're feeling on the right side of the algorithm and people will agree with me. It's 50 50. You just don't know. But if you can do the if you can do that, you can do those three things like have have great value for your people. But that's just not enough anymore to just be providing great value. Have a vibe. You better like have a look, feel an energy. It has to be novel. It has to be you. It cannot just be the same thing that everybody else is doing. You will blend in so fast if you try to do that. So you know your vibe like know your have a vibe have one whatever that needs to be. And then have the hot takes have the point of view. The things you're going to say that make you uniquely who you are and say them say the things. And so if you can do those three things, what I what I typically see is people will come in for the viral take. Then if you're bringing that like value, then they're like, oh, but actually she said a lot. They do a lot of things that I'm also like getting something from and they like the vibe. Well, now now you've got to at least you have a fighting chance. But those things you've got to think about. And then the other thing, which is something we spend a lot of time on is what's your lore. And I find that people really founders really struggle to know their lore. What makes you the person to look to for this thing? Like and back to that really easy Spanx example, we all know Sarah Blakely's story. Like we've heard it. She was selling fax machines. She was trying to wear. She was trying to like wear suits and dresses that like she felt like she didn't look great and she wanted to be able to do open toed shoes and not have to wear hose with open toed shoes. So she cut the cut the legs off started doing that. And then was like, oh, I think I'm going to make this thing. Found a factory who like the factory owner's daughter was like, oh, dad, I think this is a good idea. You should like do this. She had like $4,000 built the business started like, you know, selling Nordstrom's just by like walking in and like, you know, doing the thing. We've heard that story. That's her lore. Like that's the lore. So you've got to really know what yours is and people have to really buy in to like, okay, what's this person about and do I want to get invested in like where they just came from? So I think like getting those that vibe value viral worthy piece, right? And then really having a story that people are like, yeah, I'm into that. It's so interesting because as I'm living this right now, it's it's tough to know what that is when it's you sometimes. I've found like, you do have to test it. You do have to go on podcast and I'm like, oh, they just perked up or dug into that when I talked about that particular story. So I am trying to it's it's it's interesting because I'm trying to figure out what that is with Glossy right now. And I'm like, well, I think I'm this person for these three reasons, but what's the one because you need to be able to repeat it back. Just like we all can. Yeah. Just about everyone listening to tell you the Sarah Blakely story. And there's a reason for that. Right. It's perfected. She probably maybe that wasn't the original story that she's like, here's why I'm making it. Maybe it was like, I don't like how my thighs stick out of this dress. And I, you know what I mean? Yeah. That other story hit. So I think there's so much because I know I used to get so overwhelmed and like, I don't I don't know what that is. And how do you figure that out? This stuff takes so much testing to talk it out. You have to talk it out. I mean, go in rooms with women, just like you just said, and talk about what you're creating or what you've built or what your products are or what your story is. And notice, like, what do people get excited about when people introduce you? What do they say about you? Yeah. And we get, we're so like close to our own stuff that it's like we, we cannot half the time, like even kind of see the things that like light other people up about us. So if we can like figure that stuff out, when we run our Colt Bram Blueprint accelerator group, it's one of the things we have them or it is the thing we have them work on first is what's their founder lore. And it's interesting to see how much women really struggle with like getting that into like a packaged up thing, because we've never had to do that. And we kind of don't want to like, we don't want to like humble brag so much. So what makes you special? Right. Like, well, I just want to help people with this. And like, I always tell my, my women in that program, and I'll tell everybody that's listening, like, don't, don't tell me how you empower people. Don't tell me what you're passionate about. Don't use those types of words at all, because we just like glaze over at those types of like words like empowered, passion, you know, just inspired like, oh, I just love inspiring women. Like if I came and sat down and said, Lori, the reason my, I started my brand, my company is because I just really love inspiring women. It's like everybody, everybody listings like, I think I'm going to listen to the next episode with whoever she has next, because like, that's just not enough anymore. Yeah. And you don't, you don't even know what that is. We see that so much with, especially just personal brands or coaching. It's like, you cannot put you empower women in a bio. Like, how, what does that look like? Who, what's the problem? Like there is, you just blend, you literally just blend in and it's like, people are actually so sick of it and so over it, because you don't know what it, you don't even know what it means. Like at all. You couldn't even start to guess what that means. It really doesn't. Yeah. Really doesn't have, it doesn't hold any value for anyone because they're not, like they're not like, I'm looking for empowerment today. We always say that, really, did she wake up and roll out a bed and go, I'm, I'm just looking for an empowerment coach. Yeah. Who can be that for me? Because I'm not inspired. Like we know if we're not inspired, but the thing we're not saying is, please, someone come empower me. So I can like, we're like, I need to make more money. I need to find better friends. I need like cooler relationships. I like want to travel more. Like I, you know, I want to feel sexier, like whatever it is. Like there's a thing, there's an outcome you're looking for and whoever it is, you're going to hire in that world and a coaching world, for example, has to be able to show you, this is how I take you from where you are right now to getting sexier or getting wealthier or getting happier or getting better dates or whatever the heck it is. Yeah. Okay. So let's talk in terms for people in more of the coaching or digital space that do multiple things. Like they truly do really well at coaching in multiple departments. Yeah. I really do believe it is like a singular message focus though, to attract people top of funnel, like what is the main thing you do? One of the biggest struggles that I see all the time is they're like, yeah, but that's not just what I do. So it's so hard to lead with that. You know, it's so hard to almost, almost like how big brands just have one tagline. Yeah. They, you know, a state lotter might do a million things and have, you know, skin care and makeup and all the things, but they're probably like they're leading with one through line, totally. That someone across the entire world could be able to tell you. So what would you say for people who are in the multifaceted businesses and they can help you with multiple things? Yeah. How do you figure out the one thing you lead with? Yeah, that's, it's such a good question. And like, and, and the best state lotter example, one that we all know is, is Nike. Like what is Nike? It's just do it. Yeah. They sell tennis shoes. They sell, you know, clothing. They sell, they sell all sorts of things. So I love that question because I think this, that's where you have to start thinking about what is my community language and can I create language that my, my people, whether they buy this program I have or this program I have, and I'm doing all these different things, what's the overarching language that they will identify with? And I'll give you an example. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about, from what customers to see, to what they don't see, like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn with the holidays and the new year coming. You probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award-winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between. Choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast, you guys, and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees. And there's zero pressure from blackout in motorized options to classic shutters. Blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget, even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code, earn at checkout, limited time offer, rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stop thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. Choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Set up as fast with Shopify is built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in to create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard in 2026. Stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it. You guys, it feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm going to share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bra, that connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle, brolet and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery. It's soft. It's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the drop down menu that follows. That's earn your happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the skims holiday shop is now open at skims.com. We in my community, we started testing and you got to test this too. Cause it's like, you might come up with something you think it's really great. And then no one's like, it's not sticky. So one way to think about it is like, can you come up with something that's like a little bit, maybe even opposites, like in the, in the words of really, I'm going to share my example in a second, but one that I see that I notice like gets a lot of traction is her name is Amy and her handle on Instagram is lazy millionaire. She gets so much traction because it's like, wait, you can be lazy and be a millionaire. She sells her programs and she has a manifestation program and of course creation program and a social program. She has all these different things, but everybody wants to identify as in her crew and her, in her customer list as a lazy millionaire. So she can just say, like, this is how you become a lazy millionaire. And then you can buy any of the many things that she offers. So in our world, one of the things we started playing with a couple of years ago was that we're no gatekeeping smart girls. And so all these women would come in and sometimes men too, and they're like, I want to be a smart girl. Like I want to know what's like, what's not being gate kept. Like I want that stuff and I want to be a smart girl. So then we could sell a retreat. We could sell a course. We could sell a mastermind and it's all under the umbrella of you're going to come here and we're not going to gate keep. And you're going to be a smarter girl than you already are when you leave. So you're going to know some stuff, whether it's like, it's like how to build a funnel or how to create social or how to, how to map your brand language, but it's all through that lens of like being a smart girl. So the long answer to that, where I'm like really getting to is like figure out what the identity is that people will really connect to, create language around that. Then you can sell all the things underneath that. As people come in and really identify with what that is. Okay. I love that. What is your like definition of success for yourself right now? Gosh, it's changed so much. Also like it does once we're in our forties, right? We're like, oh, life, life has a very different lens when you're in your forties. My God, way different than I even expected. Yeah. So all other podcasts for us. Yeah, we could totally dive right in there right now. We really could. Yeah. I think success for me now is am I creating the spaciousness to live the way I want to live? And it's like, I say that as I'm launching a beauty brand. So it's not like I'm like doing that actively today, creating a lot of space, but I am ultimately in charge of my life. You know, I, I've created a company that I get to decide what it looks like. And ideally I'm doing that again with the second business. So I think like having that spaciousness, it's certainly it would be a lie for me to say, like, it's like I work until two and then I have the whole afternoon off. Like that is not my reality right now. I have a membership group called out of office club and like everyone in that group, like the definition of success for the group is that we get to live out of office lives. It doesn't mean we're not working when we're out of the office, but we're like getting the spaciousness of like really having, having the choice to be wherever we want to be, to travel to, you know, to be with family, to be with friends, whatever that looks like. So that's, that's probably what my definition of success looks like. And I'm also thinking, I mean, I am still highly ambitious. I'm thinking about like, what's going to happen in the future with this brand? And so I'm working on attracting investment money. And I'm thinking about like what shell retail shelves we're going to be on in the future, in the near future. And so there's those like success markers, but what I see at the long end of that is more spaciousness for myself. Yeah, I feel that that's my, that's my goal, future goal. I'm not definitely working towards it. Yeah. We're working towards it. And I am enjoying it. Like it's, it is a lot. And I will say it's like more than I've ever experienced right now with the product, just right exactly where we're at too. And in the fundraise. But I also, I think the beautiful thing about your forties is like being able to go, okay, I know this is for my evolution. I attracted this, everything that's happened that was hard has only made me better. So now we have a bunch of evidence at this point in our lives, which is great. Yeah. Let's talk about that just for a second, because I think there's so much pressure on women and men as well. But it's like now we see all these 20 year olds who are popping off because the content that we're seeing is the successful content, which makes us think everyone's successful. We're not seeing as much. This is also really important for you guys to hear because we're not seeing as much of the people kind of just getting started because that content's being muted. They don't have it on diet. They don't have it on lock yet. They haven't figured that out. So we're seeing a ton of successful content from 20 year old starting things and founders blowing up everywhere. And then 30 some things who are doing incredible things. And I think there's a lot of 40 some things that when women are coming to their 40s or like, is this the end of it? Or do I have this opportunity to reinvent, to start a product, to start a business? What advice would you give to a woman in her late 30s, early 40s, who's like, is it too late for me right now? Yeah, I would be like, fuck now. Absolutely not. And you have all the lived, the lived knowledge, the wisdom that you just don't, you cannot collect that. You can't collect it any other way except for living and having the, having the time in the world. And I mean, I really believe, and I'm starting to see this, and I know you probably are too, that like the next hot founders, creators, the like, I'm using air quotes, as I say, influencers, because they also mean like thought leaders, absolutely will be women in their 40s and 50s who have so much lived experience, who've worked in multiple brands, environments, had companies that have had success, had companies that failed, like just have this like really like deep wealth of knowledge. I really think that's the people we're going to be looking to. And I just think it's like, I think it's so cool when you say, and maybe it's because I am in my late 40s, but I think it's so cool when you see a woman who's like, you know what, I've lived all this time and like, I have an idea and I know it's a good one because I've spent all this, all this time living. So I'm actually going to go out and create this. The other thing that happens, I think when you can do that is there's the probability that you can move with a little bit more of like your own, at your own speed and make your decisions in a way that like you feel really grounded in them, whether it's because you're putting your own money into the thing and you don't have to like, have to move in the same way you might have had to move if you had done that thing in your 20s, but you just have a different level of like ability to sit with things, to like handle things. So yeah, if someone was like, you know, I left my corporate job when I was 30, I guess I was like 36 when I left my corporate job. And I had a lot of people being like, that's so brave. And I'm like, dude, I think I'm just like getting started. Like, what are you talking about? My parents were definitely like, what do you mean? You're like leaving a VP position. Like, isn't like the next level like, like, isn't that everything? And I'm like, if that's everything, like this is a very boring life. Like that's not, that does not feel great for me. So I would just encourage you to really think about what's going to light you up for the next part of your life and find a way to go for that thing. Oh, it's so empowering. And I think there's, there's so many gifts in your late thirties and forties. I can only imagine what comes in our fifties. Yeah. Because exactly what you said, I'm like, oh my God, if I would have had this business, even in my thirties, like earlier to mid thirties, you're so much more reactionary. You just are. You just haven't had the ability to know that shit sandwich has come multiple times a day and that they're not like you're going to get through it. And it's actually what entrepreneurship is, is just problems. Yeah. And like you just solve problems all day. Yeah. And I think if I would have really fully understood it at like a grand scale, it would have been, I just didn't, I didn't have, I didn't have the experiences yet to, to let that emotion, like to make decisions from a place of like regulated emotion. Totally. It's, it's interesting as we're recording this episode, we just went through the whole round of the 30 under thirties of the year just all happened. And I'm in a lot of like circles where women that I know are like getting those awards and, and it's like, you know, I look at that stuff and I'm like, it's so incredibly cool that they can have the depth of knowledge that they inevitably are exposed to today, that we had no chance of getting when we were in their shoes and at that age, I think that's amazing. And I also sit and think about like, if I was 28 and I was getting an award like that for something I had built, I just don't know, like thinking about myself personally, would I then want to like, would that, I don't know, how would that feel for me? I would feel so, so like tied to having to do that thing for some long haul or sell it. And that would be great if that's what happens. But I'm just like, I'm so glad I don't have to like think like that or worry about that, or I can just like do what I want to do. I can pivot as much as I want. I can build this company. I can now build this company. And I'm, I'm like kind of, you can't like fuck me up really. So, you know, if I can like, if I can sit in that chair, that's the chair. I want to be in now. Oh my gosh. Yeah. I think there's a lot to being able to pivot, try a bunch of different things. And no matter, no matter what age you are listening to this, like I do think having that mindset of being able to go, this could fail. Yeah. And that's okay. Yeah. And that's okay. Because you, everything changes so fast. Like literally everything can change overnight. And I think it's, I think it's like having this mindset probably much exactly like you have of just knowing like if you got one idea, you're going to get other ideas. Yeah. If you can solve one problem, you can probably solve a lot of problems. Totally. You've lived a life, you've made it this far, you've solved a lot of problems you haven't even thought of. Yeah. And it's just, it's thinking in a different, it's thinking in a different way. So, you know, we had kind of talked about when I asked you what you were excited about or what you love talking about, you're like, you know, just doing you like, what does that look like? What does that look like for you? Like what, what's given you a lot of freedom in your life? I'm guessing this has probably come in your later thirties and forties as well. Of like, what is doing you mean to you? Why is that important? Yeah. It's, it's so true. It is the thing I really love thinking about and talking about is like really getting clear on the word I just used was like.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, of who we are, if that's the stuff we're always thinking about. Like if we're always thinking about like how do I, how do I, how am I perceived or how do I get perceived in the way that I wanna be perceived? We're also living in an era of social media is the thing. And it's like, so we have, it does not matter who you are, you are inevitably playing some version of you on social media. Like we, none of us are like authentically like we just live every day on social. We just can't be cause we, you know, you don't, your life doesn't exist in like 45 second clips. Like it's just not how it is. So, you know, I think like that, that taking that time to really discover like, what are you really interested in? What are you excited about outside of the stuff that makes you money? Do you have hobbies? Do you, is there like art or music or like beauty that you enjoy that's like not connected to anything that like, that's, that's gonna get you paid tomorrow. If you can like figure out those things about yourself, what do you love about the people you spend time with? What do they love about you? Like, what are the things you like to do together that have nothing to do with how you appear in social media or how you, how you make money? Like that's the stuff that inevitably is also gonna just make you a better leader in the longterm anyways. So that's the stuff I like to think about and talk about. And, you know, when I'm hanging out with my friends, like, many of them do much of the things that we do, but it's like so much more fun to like get to spend time just like really like thinking about those things. What are some of the things that are lighting you up right now? I know you love your business. I know you love your product, which I'll ask about in a minute, but what are some things that are really helping you just feel a little more, you know, like your life is fun. It's multifaceted rather than just business. Yeah, so, okay. Anytime I share some of these things, people are like, wait, what? I'm like a massive motorsports fan. Okay, I love this. Yeah, so that's one thing that I'm like, I get excited about knowing that like I'm creating like a possibility of like getting to go to the next like F1 race. Fun. Yeah, that's so fun. I read a ton, like my husband and I are both like massive like bookners and we have like a book club with our family. With like the siblings and we all like read books together. I love that. It's when I think about like the people I like want to spend time with, it's like I want to talk about the books we're reading. I want to go somewhere cool. I want to talk about the sports we're watching. And like, do I ever talk about sports on the internet? No, but I'm like such a, and part of me is like, I just love a good competition. So I'm like, I just want to like, I want to talk about that stuff. Obviously like the one that everybody kind of knows about me is travel. I mean, I love traveling. That's very much like I'm living for like opportunities where I get to go cool places. But you know, those other things, I really, really get excited about too. Art, I love art. I love spending time talking about art. My husband's so damn cool. He just enrolled in a college oil painting class this semester. This semester. And was like, you know, he was like, I'm 20 years older than everybody else in the class. He's like, but he's like, this is so much fun. And I'm like, I'm more of that type of stuff. Learning, like learning, learning something. Maybe you didn't even expect to like, like enrolling yourself in different things like that. I am that hugely lights me up. And I think for, for a lot of my friends and a lot of business people I know, like it's so helpful getting out into something so different like that. Like I'm literally looking at, I've gone to break dancing class with 14 year olds. That was awkward, but I definitely did it. And it was, it was fun and crazy. And it was great stories. Looking at an adult gymnastics class right now, did a circus class. I'm very like physical. Okay. My favorite thing to do is like wakeboarding, wake surfing. So that it helps my creative brain. Number one, it helps things shut off because a lot of business people in business women, especially because our brains are wired to constantly bring bringing everything in and our environment to be like, is it okay? Is the child safe? Are we good? Like we're always thinking. So I think those creative things like that, like in just even being into other things are going to help you just shut down for a minute because I don't think ideas come when you're in your business. Yeah, it's like very rare. Yeah. And when I say like reading, I'm for clarity. I'm not saying self help in business books. Like I'm like, go read a good romance novel. Love it. Like do some things like that. Yeah. But they're just fully taking you out and like giving you just like a different, just like a different place to spend a little time. I totally agree. Yeah. And it's so I am in it right now with business. And it's been, that's actually been challenging because it can shut down those portions of your life for a hot second. But this is a great reminder for me. Yeah. I mean, same. And you know what? I have to do the same thing for myself. And I think it's like it becomes a practice. It really does. It's like, you know what? Like at my house, we have a ritual which is race day Sundays. So we watch the race on Sunday mornings and then I may have to go do a bunch of work and like catch up on things and like, but like that's time. We're going to like watch the race. We're going to have our coffee. We're going to make pancakes. They're usually banana pancakes. That's what we're going to do. And that's time we can be together. And then we maybe have a bunch of other things to go. Spend time on, but that's okay. We're just like making that connection time. And it's the time that I will commit to turning off all the other things. You got to work it in. You have to work it in. Or you're going to hate, you're going to start resenting your job, your life and what you've created. So I want to know about your product because you're crazy enough to do it. Yeah. I really am crazy. Yeah, I feel you. I'm sitting here. So are you. I'm sitting crazy. Yeah. To make me feel normal. Tell me why. I mean, tell me what it is. I think this is why it's going to work is because we're not. And we're just like, we're going to just make this happen. Yeah. I mean, after spending a decade plus working in the beauty industry, it really had not occurred to me that I ever wanted to start my own brand. And then I spent all this time working on brands. And I'm like, but what would I create if I were going to create something? And I probably sat, I like had that floating in the ether for a minute. Like it was definitely there. So then I really started thinking about this more seriously, maybe four years ago or so. And it's, you know, when someone says out loud, oh, I just, there was like this hole in this, in like the skincare space. And I had to create this thing. I'm like, that's not true. There's no holes in the space. There's something for everyone. But I, what I really was thinking about was, okay, what is the products that I need at this point in my life and being someone in their 40s with the lifestyle that I have, which is like I'm on a plane or I'm outdoors, I'm in the elements and what sort of, like what result do I want to have? I have really sensitive skin, but I want to use retinols. I want to use the Tretino and I want all that stuff. But like whenever I do use it, like my skin's irritated and it's like, the retinol burn is terrible. So how can I create something that like, that answers the things that I need and also fits my lifestyle, which is like it has to like fit into a travel bag. It has to like, it has to be able to go from like beach to, you know, city street to plane. It all, it all has to, that all has to go together. So I, that was kind of where I was sitting like four years ago thinking about all of those things. And so I started just looking for a chemist and was like, I don't know what the first product's gonna be, but I feel like it's a serum and I feel like it's something that does what a retinol does, but it has to not be something that you can't be outside or your skin's gonna be irritated. So after a lot of work, I found a really great chemist in San Francisco, started building the first product. It's a serum, it's a hydrating serum, but it's also really balancing. It has proprietary ingredients in it that we have a CLG CMOS, Fita Retinol. So it does what a retinol would do without the retinol burn. And it's like allergy space. So it's like super, super hydration. Like the easiest like marketing way to explain it, it's like the alloy you'd slather on your face after being in the sun as a kid, but if it had anti-aging ingredients and wasn't sticky and gross. Oh, so it's like that. So that's the first serum. And I just, you know, I love, I love living in California. I love the vibe. I love the like experience. I'm not a surfer, but I love like being out in that like environment. And so the brand is like, that's all reflected in like what the brand looks and feels like too. So the brand is called Casanoon. We're launching with that first serum. It's called Sabatical. And it's just like badass. I'm so excited about it. I'm so excited for you. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. And you're pre-launch right now. You're getting very close. Very close. And yeah, it was a three year process. Really. I mean, we got all the way to launch of product one about a year and a half ago. And then I realized there was, this was before the chemist that I'm working with now. There was some things I realized like I just didn't feel great about that we had done. Packaging was one of them. I'd made this like massive mistake of thinking I wanted this like beautiful glass bottle that was gonna like live on people's shelves. And then I like did my own like the work I do with my clients. I did it on myself kind of a little bit backwards where I went and built the packaging before I did that work. And was like, dude, you are a constant traveler. You can't have a glass bottle. Like what are you doing? You're gonna have to now transfer the product into a travel bottle or like this was wrong. Like you did this wrong because you thought you wanted something beautiful. That's just gonna like sit in the bathroom. And that is not your life. And it's not gonna be the life of the women that are gonna use this product. So we had to like scrap that. And the component that was really important to me was having that proprietary what has become that CMOS C algae blend which I didn't know how to create. And I was trying to find the person that could create and I didn't know how it would be created. I just wasn't landing that. And I had kind of like accepted what I had got until I was like, no, the packaging's wrong. The product's wrong. This was very expensive, but we need to stop and start again. So did that about a year and a half ago. And this is why you have to be crazy to do these things. And started again. No, that stuff, and that stuff happens all the time. I mean, I started a full company before this at Pivoted because I realized I never really thought through my skill sets and the way that this product would be marketed. I had started, you know, this Glossy was originally something called light pink. It was a non-alcoholic rosé and light wine spirits. And if I would have gone back, I would have done an exercise much like what you're talking about that said, you know, there's so many exercises you should do before launching a company. But one really should be like, what is your skill set for marketing? Yeah. Like what are you able to do in the company? That is like the biggest asset to the company. And that for me was marketing. And unfortunately with alcohol, I can't market the way that I know how to because I can't run ads to it. You can't talk about alcohol on certain things. Like there were so many, so much red tape that I was like, I just took away one of like the biggest needle movers and the way that I know how to make money that I'm no longer like a huge asset to a company where I could be a massive asset to a wellness company. Like I have proof of that in my life. You know, I've already done that with a product that was a wellness product. So for people listening, it really is like, you love skincare. It's what you came from. And then one of the main things that you realize is you're like, wait, this also needs to fit into my life because one of the main ways you're gonna talk about it is that you can use it for traveling. It's so like easy. It goes everywhere with you, throw it in your purse for the beach, ever, you know, all of these different things. And I think that we can get very like excited about how something feels like I've gotten so caught up and like, oh, that looks so luxury. I wish my thing was like that. I'm like, let's be real, Lori. Like how are you really throughout the day? Like, yes, you have these multiple sides of you, but what is it about your life that makes you wanna grab something? And then the consumer who you're talking to and your audience and all the things. So yeah, very important exercises. Yeah, you have to do it. And that's exactly what I did. I was like, this bottle is gorgeous. It's so luxe. It's like gonna be, everybody's gonna take pictures of it for their Instagram. And it was all that. And then I was like, I mean, I brought it with me on a trip and the damn thing broke. Like the inner like stopper thing broke. And I was like, what? Like, this isn't a sign that I have done this wrong. Then I don't know what is. And so I really went and like the next move was like, I need to get the right advisors to help me really define what, not the brand piece. Cause then I was like, I did this to myself, but I need someone who can help me with packaging and not just me being like, oh, that's a pretty bottle. I need someone who's like, no, this is, this is what the level of this brand deserves. So let's get the right packaging. So then we went to South Korea, got really great packaging cause they're like the innovators of skincare. Relationships I never could have gotten on my own because I had never done that before. So, you know, the big lesson was like, get the right people to get your back, help them like, if they see your vision, that part doesn't have to be tremendously expensive. If somebody really gets your vision and give it the time that it needs, which I feel like now is the theme of this conversation, but give it the time it needs to get it really, really right. Yeah. We want to rush things and it just, there's things can not be rushed. And it'll show you. Yeah. It'll show you. Yeah. So now I'm so excited because I'm like, oh, it's great and I'm thrilled. Yeah. I'm so excited for you. So where can, when are you launching? Yeah. So we're launching mid January, end of January-ish, sometime in January. Okay. We're launching D2C. We have some really great retail conversations that are already in the works of which I can't quite yet talk about, but we'll have some really cool, very aligned retail partners coming pretty quickly behind that. But you'll be able to buy it at costanune.com, which is C-A-S-A, costanune, like the time of day, dot com. And the first product is our sabbatical serum, the hydrating serum. We've got some really cool, like fun, merch-y things too, beach club merch that's already available. And it's been really fun to see our community start to like buy that stuff and wear that stuff, getting excited about the product. How fun. Well, I will link everything up below. So we have that all in the show notes. We'll have it for the product. We'll have it for Wee Wee Studios. Awesome. We'll have your Instagram down there. So you guys can all just scroll right down and check it out. If you want to work with her, if you want to see what I'm raving about, if you want to see the Instagram, I mean, she gives so much value on her Instagram alone. I've gotten like immense value just from watching your Instagram. And I've also bought one of your products, which was great too. So I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Thanks for having me. It's been so fun to get to hang out with you, Lori. Oh my gosh. This is my favorite thing to do. Totally. All right. Well, until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.