 by the time I launched, I had used all of my savings, I had maxed out all of my credit cards, I had no money to my name, so I was broke, so I couldn't pay for ads even if I wanted to. Making six TikToks a day was a necessity. When you started this, it caught some viral attention, but I love your story because I think so many people do not realize what it actually takes for something to catch on. I'm so excited to chat with you because, number one, I love products, I love clothes, I love swimwear, I love spirituality, I love manifesting, and I love shark tank. You're the common denominator between all of those things that I just mentioned. So I'm excited to have you on and chat about your story and how you're going to get to know each other and how you're going to get to know each other. So I'm excited to have you on and chat about your story and chat about your brand because you do have a really unique brand, and it came out of a problem that you were solving. So let's start there, then I'll kind of back up to what was happening before that. Yeah, so to introduce myself, I'm Haley, I'm the founder of OneWidth, and that unique product that you're mentioning is swimsuits that fit like underwear. So in April of 2019, I was trying on a bunch of different swimsuits for an upcoming trip, and I literally said out loud, out of frustration, I just want a swimsuit that fits like no-show underwear does. Like if you know, you know, no-show underwear does not dig into your body, it just lays fought on top of your body like a second skin, so it can really create this like dissonance of being in no-show underwear, looking in the mirror, hopping on a swimsuit and being like, what just happened? Like something happened, and it's so similar, but so different. So my product, OneWidth, bridges that gap. So we took what makes no-show undies so flattering and made it swimmable. So, and the name comes from me saying out loud, I wanted to feel one with my body. So that was the genesis moment. Okay, so let's go back directly to that moment. Was it like, oh my gosh, this is gonna be great. I'm gonna create this. Like I know exactly what I'm gonna do, or what were you doing before that? Was this like totally out of your element? Yeah, it's funny because OneWidth plays on so much of the little pieces of my background, but to answer your question, Lorie, of like did I know this was gonna be great? I did. I'd be lying to you if I was trying to be humble, and I was like, I know that this will hit. I do. Otherwise I wouldn't have done it. Like I believed in it so wholeheartedly from that moment in 2019, like through now, obviously, and I just felt it like so strongly in my bones. But before that, I was on YouTube, so I had a content creation background, and I worked in Bridal, so I had like a little bit of like a fashion-spotting intimate background too. So it was kind of like a blend of little bits of experience in my life. So you have like really, you really understand like the problems that women struggle with when we are either in a dressing room, like you said it in Bridal or whether it was swimwear. I mean, and you are a woman, and this was your exact problem. I feel like whenever we are looking for businesses to start, there is nothing like being able to speak to the exact core of the problem. And you're probably like, if I'm dealing with this, and this is driving me crazy, there's no way it's not making other women crazy. And let me tell you like swimwear is a thing. I don't care how great your body is, you can still feel self-conscious in it, and you're like, why does this not like fit the way I want it to fit, or why don't I feel the way that I wanna feel in this? So I love that you were solving like solving your own problem and solving so many other women's problems. So I wanna go back to the, so funny, like while it's 11-11, and I'm about to ask a manifesting question, literally right. I love it. When you felt it, was it because you just like, you knew it was solving a big problem for people? Like what was that feeling in your body of like, this is going to work? Like really explain that, and how did you really anchor that in? Totally. So I'd like to think that I planted this seed for myself when I was like a five years old, because from the time I was five years old, maybe a little earlier, let's just say five, I've felt in my bones that I would one day have a company slash brand, like specifically a brand like around a product. And I knew again, from the time I was little, that I would know when the moment happened, when I would think of that idea. Like I would know when I thought of the idea, I would know that it was the idea. In that moment, I knew it was the idea, like period end of story. So I think maybe if I hadn't had that almost like innate belief that I was born with for whatever reason, I might have questioned myself a bit more. And I think what I did was I set an intention for myself, back at the year 1999 or two, whatever it was, and I had to wait until 2019 for it to literally manifest into that light bulb moment, but I did, I knew it was the idea. And again, it was so arresting Lori, like it literally like made me freeze in my tracks when I said it out loud. And I'll just never forget that moment. I hope everyone in their life has a moment like that because it just felt so, it overtook my body and my mind. And I literally have not stopped thinking about it from that day in 2019. Okay, so you had set the intention for yourself years and years and years prior, had anything in between that come close where you were like, hmm, is this it? Yeah, like little like seedlings of like, okay, I'm gonna text my sister about this idea. And if she thinks it's good, maybe I pursued this one. But I also kind of knew like, no, it's not it. I distinctly remember driving and being like, haven't thought of the idea yet, I know I will, I'm not gonna pressure myself into it. But yeah, I had little like tiny ones, but I would let go of them in two days. Like it never lasted in my body longer than that. One with, I physically like couldn't shake it. I could not shake it. When you started this, like it caught some viral attention, but I love your story because you were very persistent and consistent. So I wanna talk about that, just how you kind of started creating content and what that looked like when you first started marketing. I think so many people do not realize what it actually takes for something to catch on. So can you share that story? Yeah, so my background is content, right? So I did have that as a competitive advantage. I know a lot of people when they think of an idea, one of their stopping like friction points is, I don't wanna be on camera, I'm stuck at social media, I won't be able to market this. So to that I say either like make it your mission to learn and convince yourself to like it until you can hire someone or hire someone, right? Like that's what I would say. But I really started making videos, like TikTok videos out of necessity. I had always told myself, again, before I knew what the idea was, I knew that like when it did come to be, I could just make Facebook ads and that's how I would sell my product, right? But by the time I launched, I had used all of my savings and maxed out all of my credit cards. I had no money to my name, so I was broke. So I could have paid for ads even if I wanted to. So making six TikToks a day was a necessity and it paid off, it paid dividends, but yeah, I just was like this has to happen. And so the marketing virality moment really came from just to your point, consistency, like literally not letting it go every day, posting a ton of TikToks and literally hoping and feeling that one of them would pop off and that's what happened. So if somebody was starting a brand right now, what would you tell them? Whether it was clothing, whether it was supplements, I mean, skincare, beauty, whatever, what would you say like if they did not have the marketing dollars, what's the first plan for them? I would say definitely focus on organic content. And again, a lot of people like if you can't hire out right away, tell yourself six months, six months, I'm gonna really not enjoy this. This is gonna be really hard. This is not natural to me, but I am going to spend, from the time I get home at six o'clock at night to nine PM watching videos about editing and in-shot and cap cut and looking at trending audios and scrolling through my 4U page and really understanding what's going on and how brands are doing it and knowing like the goal is to offload this, right? The goal is to offload this because I think now in 2025, you can't have a product without content. Someone has to make that content and again, it might have to be you for a time, for a time. And it also helps even if you do offload it to someone ultimately, you need to know how to give that directive and have a semblance of what's going on. So you literally can't lose in teaching yourself the basics of how to market on social period. Yeah, honestly, I have a brand as well. So it's a beauty supplement and truly like my, like I am just starting to really ramp up content but that's the best advice on earth because you're always either having to pay for marketing, borrow someone else's audience or figure it out yourself and figure it out yourself. Yes, it's like one of the hardest things you'll ever do. Like truly I am in it, like the resistance is so high and I'm even a content girl, I haven't been for years. Yes, but the level that it is going to take, like this is so, like you know how things happen at the perfect time and like this is the perfect conversation for me. So I hope it's hitting everybody because I think the awareness of like your, you know, three to six posts a day, like if we feel it in our bones that this brand is going to come out into the world then yeah, it's gonna feel like we're birthing something daily. Like pushing it out of our bodies. Yes, it's true. And again, like to your point, like the resistance and we are both content girlies and we still have that. Like, I still have it, you know? And I also think Lori too, like in terms of advice for people listening, if you are listening to this and hearing me say, like you have to make content, you have to do the three to six posts a day, whatever it is and you're like, I don't know if I can do that. I'm really almost questioned, like are you passionate enough about the idea? Because if someone came in here right now and said, you have to learn how to code the back end of your website for one with to say a float, I'd be at the library. You have to make sure that you pass all these tests because your business will test you as you know, like left and right. And you have to like literally give yourself a litmus test. Will I do this for this thing that I supposedly love so much and that I'm so passionate about? And if the answer is yes, that's your answer. Yeah. And honestly, someone else is going to be doing it in your category, like, and they're going to surpass you. And I'm not saying that that is, it's not, I don't even put myself in the race, like I have to beat these people, but the awareness of people are going to beat you to the forefront of that message. And speed is important, especially with something like what you were doing, like really creating something that was breakthrough in the category that doesn't cut into your body. And it's important for what I'm doing too, while this category is just really starting out, is to be the person when they think of this new thing, that you're the name that they think of, rather than someone else, you know, as becoming that habit or that go-to brand. Exactly. Yeah. I mean, I can't tell you Lori, like how scared I was to be on social media before I had launched one with, because I was so afraid I was going to open up my phone and see someone did this before I did. That was like my biggest fear. When I saw Skims was, well, it wasn't called Skims at the time, if anybody remembers that, it was first called Kimono. And she- That's right, that's right. Do you remember that? I remember it only because I saw it. Yeah, literally one day. I saw it and I was so scared. I was like, what if it swimsuits up that fit like underwear, like literally. And I was just like waiting, like literally white-knuckling for them to come out with their first like line sheet or whatever, so I could see it wasn't. But yeah, I would like, don't let that be you, don't let that, you know, fear consume you of like, oh my gosh, someone has been doing this before me because I haven't actioned it yet. Cause that was me for a year and a half, you know, between thinking of the idea and launch. No, it was two and a half years. I think I said that twice today, that it was a year and a half. It was two and a half years, I think. Yeah, April, 2019, I launched in November of 2021. So two and a half years, I'm like scared to see anything swimsuit related on social media. How long did it take for you to go from idea, sketch on paper, knowing kind of like what you wanted to having physical product in hand? I would say from that point, probably six to not, well, are we talking like the product is here and it's ready to sell or like I get my first sample? First sample. First sample, maybe three to six months, I would say. I know. Yeah. That's pretty good, that's pretty fast. And then how long to sell? That was the tricky, that was the tricky. Tell me about it, trust me, mine went haywire. It was so crazy. So I don't know, when did you start Glossy? Well, technically it was a different company and I pivoted but I started raising money in 2020 but had to pivot, throw out the first idea, start something separate. So it was probably a year and a half from the actual idea of Glossy. Yeah. Okay. So we're in a similar timeframe though. So I started talking with factories in 2020 and people will always think like, oh, was it COVID that made it take so long? And I was like, no, it's the fact that we are so small. The factories just didn't take us seriously and would keep bumping us on the production line. So I'd wake up to emails at five in the morning being like, yeah, I remember how we said you'd get your product in July and you're not anymore, it's September. And you know what I mean? I was just like, I don't know. Yeah, like a year. I'm not kidding. Wow. 2026 is the year you launch your business. It's the time that you finally stopped thinking about that big idea and you actually put it out into the world. There is no better time than fresh new energy when people are excited and they're excited to learn more and buy what you have. You guys, maybe you have that idea that you can't shake. Maybe it's something that everyone tells you that you should do with Shopify in 2026. That's when you're finally going to make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household names to first time business owners just getting started. And you guys, my company Glossy is among them and you better believe I have my Shopify notifications turned on so I can hear that chime every single time a sale comes in. Shopify gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store, choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand. Setup is fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit product photos. Marketing is built in too. Create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. As you grow, Shopify grows with you. Handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy. That's Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first this new year with Shopify by your side. Okay, ladies, I have to tell you that the bane of my existence has been shopping for bras and underwear because I wear so many different styles of outfits. I'm always dressing up, but I also want to be comfortable and I want them to disappear underneath your clothes. So there's no panty lines and I can also wear them underneath any type of top that I want. And I can tell you that my life has become so much easier because I have found the fits everybody collection from skims and there's nothing like it, you guys. It feels incredible. It molds to your body and it's like you're not wearing anything underneath. If you haven't tried these yet, you absolutely have to. You guys have been wearing them for about six months and I've absolutely replaced all of my bras and underwear. So if you want your life to get easier, let me tell you, I'm gonna share some of my favorite products. So I consider myself a bra-let connoisseur. So I got the fits everybody triangle bra-let and I'm amazed at this product. The brand provides amazing support and lift, but I don't feel like it's suffocating me at all or cutting in anywhere. So I don't know what kind of magic they put in this fabric, but it's like nothing I have ever felt. It's buttery, it's soft, it's beautiful. I love the colors. Shop skims fits everybody collection at skims.com. After you place your order, be sure to let them know we sent you, select podcast in the survey and be sure to select our show in the dropdown menu that follows, that's earn you're happy. And if you're looking for the perfect gifts for everyone on your list, the Skims Holiday Shop is now open at skims.com. So what made you stay patient during that? Were you working somewhere else at the same time? Like how were you funding your life? Yeah, I was still project. Yeah, I was still doing content, which was helpful, but it was not easy. It was really getting paid from brands. Yeah. Okay, okay. Yeah. So I had a YouTube channel, I don't have one anymore. I just kind of like stopped identifying. I was Haley the founder and not Haley YouTuber anymore. So just didn't feel natural, but I did for a really long time. But yeah, so I supported myself that way. I was doing gigs on the side, like literally any way that I could. I was so scrappy just funding everything. I also did get a $15,000 grant from my Alma Mater. I got accepted into one of their accelerator programs. Amazing. That was super helpful. Like anyone listening, go and look at the entrepreneurial initiatives that your Alma Mater does. Fortunately, I went to Yukon here in Connecticut and they have an amazing entrepreneurial program. Like even after you graduate, but you'd be surprised. There might be initiatives like right under your nose in terms of money you can get and support you can get. So that was wonderful. But yeah, so that was a really big help. That $15,000 chunk allowed me to hire a technical designer. So that was super, super helpful. So it was a combo of that and basically me just maxing out my credit cards. Okay, so we've talked about the super tactical actionable from the beginning of you were like, I'm just gonna go hard with the content. Like that's how this is gonna get out. Yeah. I love that you are so insanely actionable, but also, I had asked you before this, what's something that you would love to talk about? And you're like, well, I'm really spiritual. Like I'm pretty, I'm like, great. This just got so much better for me because I love that. But I wanna know what are some of the things that you have done and that you also currently do to kind of like visualize your business, move it along, think really big picture, think as big as you have. How do you keep that in the forefront? And you guys, I also want you to be remembering that she just told us she was posting like three to six times per day. So that's a big piece of it too. But tell me about what you do on the daily. Yeah, absolutely. So I mean, we'll start macro, like every year I do a vision board and it's really specific. And if I don't have pictures of exactly what I wanna manifest, I make them. Like I didn't have, for some reason, there's no visual online of a utility patent being granted, like the actual like granted mark, which I made up. So I like doctored one on Canva and put it on my mood board, you know? Got my patent granted last week after four and a half years, Lori, four and a half years. So finally, so I'll do a mood board or something like a vision board every year. I'm really into visualization. I visualize every morning. I have my red light mask on, on my acupressure mat, and I just close my eyes and I visualize an outcome for myself, it can be a big one, it can be an outcome for that day. And I'll also do like my self-talk and Esther Hicks style manifestation sort of like prompts, if you will. So the one that I love is wouldn't it be nice if, and the reason that they say that one works so well is because your body has no resistance to it. If you say like, I'm tapping the way that I do, but like if you're tapping and you say like, I'm going to get a million dollars today, like that feels so out of reach, right? Like if you say, wouldn't it be nice if I got a million dollars today? There's something that happens energetically there that I think allows it to flow freer. So I do that, like when I was prepping for Shark Tank, I would go on walks and put my earphones in and play the Shark Tank theme song and picture walking out, like things like that. And I'm also super careful with my language and what I consume. So making sure that it's really positive and lends me to the outcome that I want. So those are just kind of like daily habits, I would say that I have that, you know, help me to my goal alongside action always, obviously. Yeah. Okay, so what are you like, what are you not consuming that you think most people are that you actually think holds them back? I have a big one. Okay. True crime. Okay. Oh, girl, we're going to get on a pulpit together. I even have friends who are like really, like they're crushing it, but they're doing that. But it's also making you depressed and anxious. And you just told me that you're now walking a blessing because you're doing it. Okay, go off because I can't. Yeah. So like, I just think it's, I don't love the concept of glamorizing or consuming other people's misfortune. Like I just, I don't want to call it misfortune, that is like not even the right, it's so beyond that. And I started to feel it like in my body and it, I was like, I just don't think for whatever reason this aligns with my desired outcome. I grew up my entire family in law enforcement. So I would see these situations playing out. And it was the reality for so many people that I knew, it became really uncomfortable to consume things like that. And even like really dark music in the morning. Like I love a moody Lana Del Rey lover, but I have to make sure like the songs that I decide to play and stuff like that in the morning align with my intentions for that day in the words that I speak out loud, like, you know, what I'm singing along to songs and stuff like that, like everything. And this isn't to knock anyone that consumes this stuff. I just found for me personally in terms of like, okay, here's where I want to go. This stuff upon consumption of it started to feel really icky in my body. What I think about me getting to an end goal. Yeah, I could not agree more. I think whenever you're lowering your vibration, which I don't know anyone who's listening to like a true crime or music that's a little, I don't know, that can be super dark moody or whatever. I mean, a teenage, I grew up like, you know, my teenage guy friends were like slipknot people. And I remember he's like, this is so, this is like literally energetically messing with me so bad. And I knew that at like a really young age. And, you know, our vibration is truly what people feel. If all else you guys, if you don't believe that it's like magnetizing me for what you want, like people feel the energy that you walk in the room with. So I am so focused as well. Like when I get on a podcast, like I'm like, okay, want to make sure my energy's up, that it feels good for the other person when I'm walking, you know, into a new room with people. Because I just think people want to work with people who they feel that like very high vibe enthusiasm, like excited about life, very tuned in. Like it's magnetizing. And I'm positive that that is why people felt it with you through social media is you probably just like, well, I know how you come off. I saw a lot of your stuff. And it's very like high frequency. It's you're very excited about the brand. You're very tuned in, you're very tapped into it. It's like who you are. And so you're able to just like, you know, preach that through your body. Like you need to happen. I love this. All of that stuff that you just mentioned is like, people feel that it's so affected right down to how are you going into creating social media? Do you need a vibe check? Do you need a little prayer? Do you need a little meditation and visualization that no matter what happens with this video, you know what I mean? You should be doing this. And it's going to be great for the brand. Exactly. It's like being a founder is an eternal attitude adjustment every hour, like every hour. That's the best way to say it. Yes, it is. And it's like, like I said, it tests you in every capacity. And not only does it test you, but you also have to bounce back from that test. You know, you can't like wallow. You can't, you know, so it's, yeah, it's an attitude adjustment every day, every hour, all day, but it really does. It's very cool, I think, to look back and be like, wow, I wouldn't have been able to handle this a year ago. Isn't that the best? Yeah. It is the best moment when I'm like, holy shit, like the old me would have just crumbled. Like I'm so proud of the woman I've become through the freaking fires. Exactly. Yeah. No, and that's how I feel. Like the old me would just cease to exist. I don't even know. Like I just completely shut down. And it's just really, really rewarding, I think. And it only happens, like we only get to be this version of ourselves from the hard stuff. Yes. You know? It was not the easy stuff that, you know, created this version of me. Oh, it's not the wins. Those are just like, woo-hoo, yay. Tell me about some of the biggest challenges that you've had. There's so much. Like there really, really is. I don't know where to begin. Yeah, being broke, my credit card declining at a gas station, paying for a deep brush, like things like that, you know, amidst everything like going on and trying to build a business. Like I've had personal health setbacks, family health setbacks, like major, major problems going on behind the scenes, like with the business or, you know, nothing like, I don't want to be like too cagey, but you know, like we have a production issue happen that costs six figures, you know, like things like that. There's always stuff going on, you know, that forces me to tap into a new side of me, learn a new skill set, you know, it's hard. Like it's really, really hard. And honestly, just like the output too, that it requires of you and what that can do if you're not careful, can really debit your energy and mind, body, spirit. Tell me about that. Because there's this spot where like it's so funny, because you know, when you get so into manifestation, personal development, you can almost like personal development yourself too much. Well, what you're going to say, yeah. And it's like, this is when people are like, name a failure. And I'm like, I can't, I can't say a failure because I've learned and that's so corny, but it's like, they all get netted out in my mind. Yes. Do you know what I mean? Because you've learned from it. You're like, it's hard for me to say it was a failure because it gave me something that I needed, you know, and it turned me into a person, the person that I needed to be. And some of those for me too have been big, like six figure, like, oh my gosh, this really sucks.  abigmonitary-pings, that you have lost or something happened. And it's like, you wouldn't wish those on anyone, but I have this weird thing that I know you'll get that, like, you know, the, you would never wish the darkest moments upon your bestest of friends, but also, you know, that they need them in order to become who they see in their head. Yeah, so it's like, you can't, you can't wish them away, and I can't sit on here on this podcast and be like, oh gosh, you know, hopefully that doesn't happen to you. It's going to happen, and you actually don't need to dread it, believe it or not, because when it happens, it's like, as long as you have, like, if you hopefully have one person that you can chat with or talk to, and if not, you'll go and find that person, you'll create it, you'll reach out, and maybe that's the reason you finally end up reaching out and make an entrepreneurial friend who can support you, like, there's gonna be huge reasons for it, and you're gonna get through it, because I think it's easy to feel like things are the end of the world, and that's one conversation that I want to bring to more women is like, if you lose money, if you disappoint investors, if you, something goes terribly wrong, if you disappoint people, like, it's not the end of the world, it's actually just all how business goes, and I had some really, like, crappy stuff happen in the pivot of transitioning into the new company, and I got into such a dark place, like, I don't ever want a woman to get to that dark of a place, where I felt so alone, so isolated, and like, I'd let everybody down, I had lost money, and it was like, devastating, and so I hope these conversations, like, bring to light to people, guys, it is not the end of the world, like, you will come back from everything, you will learn from everything, don't sit in so much resistance over the fear that you never get started, or that you get stuck, or that you start making decisions from fear, because that's when your company starts to go downhill, like, worrying about other people's deaths. How do you stay in tune with yourself, your choices, stay out of all the opinions, and everything that's going on in the world? I think there was a while where I was really listening to people, and it was when my business was not doing well, it was like, you know, it was in the early days, and then kind of one day I came home from like, a pitch competition, or something like that, and I just was like, you know what? I'm not doing this anymore, like, I am not taking calls with people who have advice for me, like, I am not going to networking events, I am not doing pitch competitions, I am shutting all of this down, and seeing what happens if I go inward, hmm, and that's when my business exploded. I'm not saying that, like, I am the key to the all-knowing, I'm just saying what can happen when you put your blinders on, and, you know, create yeses from saying no to a lot, you know, is really like an unmatched experience, like, all of the unlocks in my life, I feel like have come from me waiting things out, if that makes sense. Mm-hmm, I resonate with that so hard. I've had that a couple different, you know, I've pivoted a few times in my career throughout my whole life, and I think the times where it really took off and things worked, I turned out the outside noise, like, and right down to, I used to compete in fitness competitions years ago, and it was like the first year that I decided to, like, not go kind of like do the whole thing beforehand that they do, the mingling, the like, where you get in your head, where you compare yourself to the other people there, and I was like, you know what, I'm just gonna stay in my room, and I'm gonna like send positive juju to all these people, and I'm gonna focus on what I wanna focus on, and that year, I literally set records, like, in that category, because it had, I was like, I'm staying in my own lane, I'm gonna make me energy-only beautiful energy for anyone I encounter, like, on stage or in the audience, but I am pulling it all back, because I was just noticing, you were leaking, you guys, we're just leaking our energy, we're leaking our ideas, we're giving away our power, we're feeling so insecure, like, whatever is making you feel that way, like, so unsure of yourself over and over again, you almost need to stay away from all of it, and like you said, just for a little while, not making any of those people bad, it's because you are too willing to give it away at that point, so it's like, how do we get it back? And I really do think it's like, meditating, listening, praying, sitting, what are you like, what are you excited about? Like, what, I'm in that space right now, even for like, what's my next product, and it's so easy to go, well, what's going on out there? You know what I mean? What's happening, what's trending, and I need to turn it all down, totally, yeah, and just like, really set the intention, again, like you said, next product, and be like, ask the universe to show you a sign that'll make you think of what that next idea is, but yeah, stillness, Laurie, I think is so important, like a lot of times, if I need to conceptualize a product, a rollout, how we handle a really complex situation, I will book a massage, because it makes me put my phone in another room, makes me close my eyes, and keeps me semi-awake, and obviously, but puts me in such a zen, receptive state. This is a great idea, because I really think a lot during them, but I don't know if I've set an intention for that. I think, you should, yeah, like go in and be like, I am here to think of how I'm rolling out this, and again, it's not like some people will be like, oh no, you should really use that time for it to be restorative and do nothing except, zen out, and it's like, no, I'm zen, and that's why things are coming to me so easily, and it's not like a think tanking massage session, it just things literally just flow. Same, no, yes, okay, great, thank you for this advice. We're definitely gonna do that, because I'm like, ugh, I don't feel like sitting and meditating for long periods right now at this point in my life, which is probably exactly what I need, but that would be a good way to get me into it. Are you looking to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all in one marketing and CRM platform designed to help you connect with customers, drive engagement, and grow your business. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads through their built-in CRM, and reach them through email and SMS, and boost retention with powerful automations. Effortlessly create personalized multi-channel campaigns that ensure every single customer gets the right messages at the right time, and that's not all. Brevo offers AI-driven personalization, advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and more, giving you everything you need to market smarter and not harder. Get started for free today, or use Code Happy to save 50% on starter in business plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy, and take your marketing further with Brevo. If you're anything like me, you have the best intentions during the holiday to get somebody that special gift that makes them feel so thought about, but then time runs out and you feel like you're left with a gift that's not gonna feel important. You guys, this is where Aura Frames is the solution to do it quickly, but also give a gift that feels so incredibly personal. So who are you always struggling to shop for? You guys, Aura Frames are so incredible because you can upload unlimited photos and video. Just download the Aura app and connect to Wi-Fi and immediately you can start personalizing your Aura Frames for that special person on your list that you really wanna feel thought about. You can preload photos before it ships you guys. You can keep adding them from anywhere at any time and really personalize this gift and message before it even arrives at their house. So you can't wrap togetherness, but you can frame it. For a limited time, save on the perfect gift by visiting auraframes.com to get $35 off Aura's best-selling Carver Mat Frames named number one by Wirecutter by using promo code urn at checkout. That's A-U-R-A-Frames.com promo code urn. This deals exclusive to listeners and frame sell out fast. So order yours now to get it in time for the holidays. Support the show by mentioning us at checkout. Terms and conditions apply. Some of the most important business advice that I have ever gotten is to make sure that I have a solid foundation when I set up my business. And this is what we tell every entrepreneur that we run into because your business identity is everything that shows what your business is about, from what customers see to what they don't see like legal paperwork, website security and state licenses. Get more for your business, more privacy, more tools, more guidance with Northwest registered agent. Northwest registered agent has been helping entrepreneurs launch and grow businesses for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1,500 corporate guides. Real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast and for just $39 plus state fees, get an LLC domain name, business email, local phone number, business address, registered agent and compliance in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash paid earn. With the holidays and the new year coming, you probably are looking around your house thinking that you would love to upgrade and freshen up your environment. And there is no easier way to do that than with your window treatments. Nobody covers windows better than blinds.com. Blinds.com brings your space to life in your way. They have free design help. Other retailers may claim to have experts, but blinds.com has spent nearly 30 years building an award-winning team of over 100 design consultants that are ready to help you create your dream space. Always convenient, always tailored to you. Three ways to shop, one perfect fit. Whether you want a DIY, have it all done for you or you're somewhere in between, choose what works for you and rest easy knowing the fit is guaranteed. So the holidays come fast you guys and you can freshen up your window treatments fast as well. And unlike some competitors, the price you see is the price you pay. No hidden fees and there's zero pressure. From blackout and motorized options to classic shutters, blinds.com has window treatments for every room, style and budget. Even shades for your outdoor space. The Black Friday deals at blinds.com are going strong all month long. So don't miss your chance to save big. And as always, our listeners still get $50 off when you spend $500 or more. Just use code earn at checkout, limited time offer, rules and restrictions apply. See blinds.com for details. Okay, I want to touch on Shark Take a little bit, not because I feel like a million people are gonna try to go on Shark Tank who are listening to this, but because Shark Tank just represents like a very, very large moment for your brand. It represents a, I have to get my shit together. I need to make sure I'm on point. I need to really like be the representative of this and hold my own around people who are gonna push back. So tell me what the journey of that looked like from just like, how did you get on? And then how did you prep? Yeah, so I always told myself I was not the type of person that should go on Shark Tank. Like I really, I just thought that I would go in there and no pun intended, like I'd become Shark bait. Like I really would. Like I just, I really think like, I just saw them like seeing me walking down into the tank and then being like, oh no. You know what I mean? Like that's literally what I had in my head. I'm just like, there's no way that this will go over well. You know, I just, I saw that and I would see, I think I was especially really hypersensitive when I would watch the show and see like solo female entrepreneurs in the tank and like how that could go. And I just was so scared. Like I was so scared. So I told myself like, Haley, you should not do that show. Like people would say, I'm nervous thinking about it. Like you have to let me like, I'm nervous. Okay, keep going. Okay. I still get nervous, Laura. I was on the show and I don't know it. Like I, I still get nervous. I do. It's got, I filmed almost a year ago. Like I still get anxious about it. And yeah, so I told myself that for a long time. And then, you know, people would always say to me, like, you know, you should go on Shark Tank. My grandpa used to say to me before I even had a business idea. He used to say, you should be on that show, which was like the so sweet. And I didn't understand it at the time, but, so fast forward. Eventually, like I was on a founders club call. I'm a part of this club called the founders club. And there was a call that they did with all of the people in the club that had been on either Dragonstone, which is the Canadian version of Shark Tank or Shark Tank, what I'll call Shark Tank proper US, even though we could be stolen, I think, from Canada. But, but yeah, and I listened to all these people talk about their experience. And I asked that question of like, I think I'm just going to go in there and be Shark Bay. And his name is Kalei, Kalei or Kalei. I'm going to put your, from Shredskins was saying, like you just have to go in and do you, like literally just be so authentically yourself, which I know is like very trite advice. But I, for a while was like, when I go in there, I'm going to have to just like manufacture what they want to see. You know, and that was the first time I was like, maybe I could just like be me and go into the tank. So I applied right then and there after watching this call. And about a month later, I got a call back from casting. And you, you apply thinking you're never going to hear anything again. You know, like you just throw it out into the ether. And it's a very simple application. It's all the paperwork that comes after. That's very intense, but, you know, it took me 30 seconds to apply and they reached out to me. And then basically from that moment on, I was in touch with casting and production. And it gets really intense and you're on weekly calls with them. If you advance, obviously, and they tell you at every single stage, you can get caught at any time, anytime. You can make it to LA and get caught. So it is, yeah, it's so high stakes, so high pressure, so anxiety inducing the entire time. But I had to do so much work on myself to change that narrative, Lori, of like me telling myself I shouldn't be on that show because I'm like a liability. It shouldn't be in the tank, you know what I mean? To believing that I'm the perfect person to be on the show. Like I had to do so much tapping, rewiring, telling myself a new story. And, you know, ultimately it worked out really, really well. But I believe that had I not done all that work and just gone in with my old mindset, yeah, it would be a totally different outcome. So it worked out really, really well. Like we're going to talk about that in a second. But for anyone listening is like, OK, she rewired, she, you know, did the things. I know you're removed from it a little now because you haven't done it in a while. But if you could take us back to like what what were the things you were saying during the tapping session, like what was the old story? And then what were you rewiring with? Yeah, so I first. OK, another really good tip with this is and I got this from your manifesting bestie podcast, but she talks about choosing like your favorite song, like something that is already committed in your mind and changing the words to it to being like your manifestation. Wow, I'll give you an exact. This is so corny. Oh, this stuff that works. It works like so after I film Shark Tank and I'm getting back to the whole like changing my story, but I just feel like with your audience, I want to give the tips that I feel like really helped me. But after I film Shark Tank, you don't know if it's going to air. You can go through the whole process. You can get a deal and have it potentially not air. So yeah, I used to sing to myself like I'm going to love how it feels when Shark Tank airs to the tune of No Air by Jordan Sparks. OK, we love this every day. Just every day, Lori was singing that version of No Air that I made myself. I like refused to sing it out like it's done. I put it in a box. It's gone. But that really works so well. There are ones I had to. But like that's an easy one. But yeah, I was literally like tapping, saying I am exactly the type of person that should be on the show. My entire life has prepared me to be on this show. They are going to love me in the tank. There is no other outcome other than me getting a deal. Like I remember my mom and I got to JFK to fly out to LA to film. And my mom goes, well, what happens if you don't get a deal? And I was like, well, that's not going to happen. And I get that in my bubble, mom. Yeah, yeah. But it was like, I'll say that, you know, like, F baby. I was so I was so intentional and so careful with my words and my thoughts about myself. And it doesn't mean that I wouldn't like picture me bombing. I was so scared of that. But I also just like prepped so much spiritually, emotionally, mentally, in addition with like physically, you know, listening to myself on tape doing my pitch a thousand times, like I compared those two sort of like modalities of physical practice of this undying like face that I could create this amazing experience for myself. I'm kind of getting teary because I'm thinking about that version of you. And then I watched the episode and I know what happened. And we'll talk about that. But I'm like, holy shit, like what you you're bringing me back to those moments in my life when you're so in it that it is success is inevitable in your mind because you've wired it that way. And when it actually happens, it like when you have a moment outside of that, like it brings you to your knees to see that come together exactly as it should. So so about like the moment, you know, you you you're you're finding out what's happening. Tell me who the sharks are and how you feel on the other side. Yeah, so I had found out that Jamie Koon Lima was going to be on my guest shark panel. They told me from the jump that I was likely going to have a guest shark because of when they knew I was filming. But I found a guest shark of all time. Yes. I literally the second I found out who it was, I was like. Again, and with my whole manifestation thing, I'm like, everything is working in my favor. Like Jamie would be so perfect. I wrote it down in my phone. I will get a deal with Jamie Koon Lima, like literally wrote it down and it happened. So yeah, but again, like the second I heard it, I was like, Shark Tank is conspiring for me. Like, you know what I mean? Like everything is going exactly as it should. And yeah, so I found out Jamie was going to be the guest shark. And I knew Barbara was going to be on the panel. Mark Kevan was going to be on the panel. Lori Grineer. And why am I forgetting? Oh, of course, Mr. Wonderful. And yeah, so I was like, OK, like I feel really good about this. I feel really, really good. And I walked in and first of all, let me just say all of this crap work and stuff like that did not make me immune to being the most nervous I've ever been ever. I was shaking like I physically couldn't eat. I was doing deep breathing like exercises every two seconds. The camera guy saw how nervous I was like and were like saying really nice things to me and helping me breathe. Like it was I was so nervous. And then the second the doors opened and I just like walked out because they count you in. Obviously, I just like. It's like it's showtime. I'm just literally leaving all of this like behind me. And I did my thing in the tank and walked out with a deal with Barbara and Jamie. And like, I mean, it played out on the show, but I thought I was going to faint. And I believe it. And I really just was like this was everything. This was every best possible scenario playing out. Wow. In real time. Wow. Were you out of body while it was happening? Or were you just like, oh, my God. This is insane. Or did you were you like fully expectant of that? I was not fully like I can't say expectant of it, but I was like, hope. Like I just told myself like it's going to play out exactly as it's meant to. But again, prepping my mind with like the best possible outcome. You know what I mean? I always say like when I look at pictures of me in the tank or, you know, like me and Barbara at her retreat that happened back in April, like I'm just like, I so wish I could go back in time and show that picture to myself like before I was about to walk out. But of course, like I needed those nerves to be able to like perform the way that I did. But yeah, it's like this weird like being so in your body, but so out of body and so hoping that outcome to happen. But also like, you know, the fear so deep within me that it wouldn't, you know, it's like all this insane combo of things happening at one time. Did it change your business? How do you feel about it as a whole? I think for so long, I. Struggled like in conversation when I was, you know, telling people what I did or whatever, or like in a room with other E-com founders, like I struggled to. Be able to put words to like know what I'm doing is really legit. Like it's really cool. I promise, you know, like that sort of a thing. And the second obvious I could start saying like we were just on Shark Tank or, you know, like we got a deal on Shark Tank, like it made me feel this sense of accomplishment. And in saying those like few words, it's like people knew that I was cooking up something good, you know. So I think that's actually been the most gratifying piece of it is like a internal like nod to myself and acknowledgement to myself of like and externally as well. Like this is this is a seal of approval or, you know, a piece of social proof for my business. That means so much. But yeah, it absolutely has changed my business and it's changed me as a founder and a person and it's just incredible. Like I really can't, you know, people ask me what the experience was like. I say everything you think it is. Like it's so high pressure. It's so high stakes. It's scary, but it's also amazing. And it's like the epitome of the American dream. It really is. And I'm just so fortunate, so grateful. I don't want to say fortunate. I want to say like grateful to have been on that show. Wow. I literally can't imagine. I feel like I'm like, what's the closest thing to that outside of like competing? But I did a Ted talk. I feel like that was in. Yeah, but not. But I didn't have those people sitting in my front row. So what's head talk? Wait, so question about Ted talks. Yeah. Do you have to memorize? Yes, everywhere. You do. You really need to, because you have to be concise, like down to the minute. How did you memorize it? OK, so this is great. I did not think I'd be able to memorize anything like that. At first, that was like my deepest fear. Like I didn't graduate high school. I was like, oh my God, I'll never be able to do this. Like that was just a fear, right? Like I'm not smart enough to do it. That all came back to me like when I was doing this because it's a 20 minute talk. It was well, it was 18 minutes. And I was listening to Elizabeth Gilbert. Do you know who that is? She wrote Big Magic. She was like an author. Yes. Yeah. And she was talking about she did a talk for Oprah and she was like, OK, doing a talk for Oprah is not the time that you, you know, you like wing it and you don't memorize it. She's so she's like was talking about her journey of memorization right around the time I needed to memorize, which is crazy. And so she said the best way to do it is to walk it into your body, like walk while you're doing it and don't you don't want to memorize too far out. You only want to memorize within a week. So you want to know the talk, but within a week, you only want to memorize it. Otherwise, it just you can actually forget it or something apparently. So for one week, I would go on like two hour long walks and I would read the paragraph and then try to say it out loud and then read it and say it out loud. Then I'd go to the next paragraph, then I'd try to combine those. And I would just I'd be talking out loud the whole time in Los Angeles. So it was totally fine because I looked like everyone else then. And in one week, I memorized the whole thing. And thank God I did because the teleprompter broke on everyone that day. And my first girl that went up did not memorize her talk and it was a disaster. No, wait, that is so. Wow, I do think there is merit to waiting to really close to the thing to memorize. But like you said, you need to know it like you need to. You should be able to give the bones of it before. Yes, for sure. But I think if you haven't in your brain for too long, you can actually start to think about it too much. And you're like, wait, was I supposed to say smoothing second skin swim or ultra smooth like, do you know what I mean? And you've done it 60 times at that point. But that's so smart. Wait, so what happened? Could they air the girl who didn't have no. Oh, my God. No, I know. It was it was. Yeah. So that definitely she went first. And she was so nervous, like in the teleprompter broke and she took her shoes off on stage while up there and then just kind of said, like, I don't know where to go from here. So you guys, she recovered, she's fine. She's great. But like how things happen. So yeah, so try to try to record it. And we all know that that was for her journey as well. I'm sure she's doing fantastic now. Yeah. So anyway. Well, I love that. I love like I feel like bringing people on this podcast to like knowing those super intense moments are just they're just such breakthrough moments for your life. What would you say is just like, how are you different on the other side that you personally, who you are as a woman, a founder, all of it? Yeah, I just had so many limiting beliefs about myself. Like I just wasn't the type of person who could get this or get that or oh, this would happen, but there would certainly be a catch or things like that. And I just don't think that way anymore. Like that entire experience rocked that for me, that whole belief system of like, yeah, I'm just going to have to like, you know, except that that'll never happen for me because I'm not the type of person that that happens to like that was my whole thing. And that's just gone. Hmm. So good. You got to do you have to do the big scary thing. Like you have to dive. No pun intended. You have to go into the shark tank, literally. Yes. Because look how transformational that is for you. And I have no doubt that you will be insanely successful. You already are because of that because you know now that you can do anything. And I think those moments are pivotal instead of resisting it and avoiding it. Like we all want to like starting to have the motto of head first. Like you got to go head first, dive in. If you see it, take a dive because it's going to it's going to get you to where you need to go. So I'm so grateful for you. And I want people to go check out your brand because it's absolutely incredible. It's beautiful. Not only is it beautiful, but it also fits you amazing. It's going to make you feel so freaking good. And while it's still summertime, which by the way, I'm in California, Texas, Arizona, all of you, you still need all of your swimwear. And I know all you girls take vacations and want all the content. So this is the cutest stuff ever. Go follow her and go pick out your swimsuit and truly like Tag us. I want to see it. I want to know we were like, we're your typical girls. We need to know what you got. Absolutely. No, I also like I find most everything through podcasts. So I would love to see anyone who picks up one with because of this podcast. I just think it's it's such like an enriched way to find out about people and things, you know, so it's like, I don't know, I just find it to be such a cool thing to know, like when people listen to the story, like played out in full and decide to get the product, I just think it's so cool. Say it again, where we can follow and you guys and putting her link to the website in the show notes below. Our main platform is Instagram. So one with swim. We're also on TikTok. One with swim, one of some dot com, one of some of everything. And yes, thank you for having me on, Lori. Like this was an amazing opportunity to be able to talk with you and like someone who gets the visualizing the manifesting and just like getting your mindset right in relation to your business, I think is so important. And I really hope that this was able to help people today. Yay, I loved it. Well, you guys make sure you go follow, click the links. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye, everyone.