If things are changing in your life, it's because you're becoming who you will one day soon be. Like if things are rising up and if things are happening and things feel dark, it's because there's change trying to come through for that next version. Yeah. That's the initiation, the required path. Rebecca, welcome to the Are Your Happy podcast. I'm so excited to meet you in person in real life. Newport Beach. Oh my gosh, we're loving your family's here. Getting to hang out at the beach. That's literally the best, isn't it? Just the best. Yeah. Really, really good. What are What do you kids think you're doing right now? Like, do you tell them or do you Well, the other day my my son said at school that I um dance on stage. So, yeah. Which is kind of true on stage. The teacher was like, "Okay, I mean, no judge. a story 25. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then they did this Mother's Day interview and he said, um, um, I love my mom because she's funny. And I'm like, yes. Eman, oh my god, I love that. Um, well, I'm so excited to have you because you came into my world in I believe it was 2016. Maybe it was 2015 and you launched your book in 2016, but I grabbed that book immediately and I loved it from page one. Like, it's one of those books that you're like, this is literally delicious. like because every word you're such a beautiful writer, but it's not just how you write, it's truly what you're writing as well and it just hit at the right time. So, I'm so excited about your new book and I can't wait to talk about it today because I feel like all of the things that you've gone through are really going to speak to so many people because especially a lot of my audience is 30s, 40s, 50s. I think at this point, middle age, like you you really start going through some things that maybe weren't expected in your life and you talk a lot about the dark night of the soul and going through, you know, so many different things. So, we're going to we're going to talk all about that today, but what has been I I always like to ask authors like what did you set out for this book to initially do and what did you discover that it did for you like outside of who you wrote in Gor what you did? But when you first were writing it, what were you thinking and what did it transform into? Well, all of my other books like particularly the one you were just talking about Rise Sister Rise. I knew exactly what I was doing when I was writing it and I was I will will have lived through a period and I was essentially writing to myself as I was going through that period but from having completed the period. So that one was um essentially stepping into the sacred feminine right after making it into N's world and all of that. This is the first book that I've written and I wrote over a much longer period of time where it was like I was writing my way through changes cuz it was really I mean it it was written in a period of extreme change on the planet. Let's like you know it was all through the pandemic. It was through even even before that. Um did you start like 2018 or um well I was contracted for the book in 2018. Oh right. It was meant to come out in 2019, 2020 and it was just like it's still forming. It's still forming and so other projects just kept on coming in in front of it because we couldn't quite work out what it was. And so it was like this energy in itself this book and then of course um as I completed the book it it was emerging what the thread was. I knew your writing was really potent but I was still learning what the key thread of the book was. So yeah. Yeah. So it was a very different book in the writing process than many of the authors. Were you feeling freaked out in the interim? Were you like wait this isn't like because you're contracted for it? What ended up happening? Did that change or did they let they just say hey you can have extra time or how did that work? Yeah. So my publisher kept on requesting other projects and so it was almost like I was letting the other projects come in. So they were totally fine with it and they could tell that this was an important book, but it wasn't like urgent like it's need to like come out right now. It just needed to form. So they were really um they really understood and the the the first title that we had for it was the initiation which I really like that title. I mean I think your soul had a dream your life is is an amazing book title but the initiation really does encapsulate energy because I think it is about the midlife awakening or midlife crisis you might call it um where you know we all go through if we go through um that portal in time um in a similar way as Saturn returns and other periods of time but yeah and and I think that particularly those of us who are going through those changes at a time where everything is changing, I think is even more disorientating. So, yeah, I am basing everything in my life right now, like especially me and one of my really close girlfriends, we're literally just saying back and forth to each other like it's the initiation is the initiation into that woman that you can see in your head that you know you came here to be. Because I think that, you know, when you're going along on your journey of just wanting to grow and wanting to grow your business, which at the same time, you know, self-development and business, they're both just like the biggest personal development kins that you could possibly do. And it's like a constant face off with yourself. And I think that sometimes I thought that as you brew things got easier. And it's like I noticed that the challenges were getting a lot bigger as well. we were, you know, I'm stronger, but the challenges truly made you get bigger because you are constantly being initiated into that next level level of your life. So, right away when I was um, you know, starting to look through your book, like this first quote that's on the very inside of the cover is what got me. But first, I want to read your title because you mentioned it. Rebecca Campbell, "Your soul had a dream, your life is it. How to be held by life when it feels like everything is falling apart." And on the inside, the quote says, "People think the darkness is the end, but it's also the beginning." Where were you when you thought of this and then it hit you and you're like, "This is this has got to be the initial thing that we're going to talk about." Well, I also wrote this book when I became a mom twice. I've got two kids and um so I was I was 39 when I had Sunny and 41 when I had Goldie. And yeah, like I I don't know if all mothers or people who have babies are scared, but I was really afraid. I was unsure whether I wanted to have kids and then I knew I really wanted and I was worried that it wouldn't happen. You know, it's like that whole process is so long. So you were unsure up until like 37 38 and then Yeah. I'd say I'd say 36 37 I was pressuring my husband for us to make a decision because we both were unsure. Um and then yeah and then it became clear that I I did want that. Was there anything that this is just a question everybody's sitting in in my life because I don't have children and we're always sitting in it too. Was was there something that tipped it for you that you remember? M I think that the thing that I was afraid of was that it would take me away from my path and like my work was my number one and um I always had that urgency. I was just like I just don't understand how it will fit and will it take me off my path you know. I actually went to Egypt and I was in the temple there and I I think I connected with the energy of my son and it was that moment I I think I connected with him and um yeah so that was really the moment for me that it was like yes I I I really really really want this. So yeah um but then yeah the pregnancy was you know I think everyone has their own you know whether it's conceiving or pregnancy or birth or whatever for me with my son the pregnancy was really challenging there were a lot of we were really high risk and a lot of complications and when I wrote that it was this understanding the birth process of like contractions expansions like literally how the body works and and and I like knowing that there was a soul being knitted in my body in the darkness in the womb. Yeah. So I think that's where a lot of that poetry kind of came from. Yeah. Of like being in this in between when I was pregnant with my son. I remember people saying to me just because of my line of work like you know I'd always connected with um um spirits and and stuff. So like that's kind of my line of work like soul. But I remember people saying to me, um, you know, are you communing with your son, your one son all the time? And I wasn't. And I thought, oh my gosh, like is there something wrong with me? And but it wasn't until like around the six-month period where I I I a pregnancy that I like really really fell him besides that one moment before after you had your son, what would you go back and tell the version of you that was afraid and and trying to decide? Just that first of all, you get to choose. you get to choose. Um, and then it it won't work out exactly the way you think that you that you think it will, but um, yeah, it won't distract you from your path. It will it will deepen it. It will be the hardest thing you've ever done, but um, it will it will deepen your connection to the sacred. Yeah. Do you think it's because it's the hardest thing you've ever done that you I think so. I think what I wasn't ready for was that this process of reparing where your child is there. I didn't even know about this. How did I not know about this? But particularly in the really early postpartum period, um I found that really challenging and I think it's because they say that as your child grows, you're invited and I you you got to say yes to it. were just talking about relationships and how yeah they require work and I think the same thing with with with ch any relationship in your life but yeah the level of consciousness if you if things come up like say when my son was 2 months 3 months 6 months it's all preverbal and so it's stuff that I didn't even know existed and so that was quite um disorientating for me and yeah I wasn't ready for that I eventually got my head around it but yeah explains what you're talking about you weren't ready for what part. So when stuff comes up in the preverbal state, it means that it's like um it's a memory, a cellular memory of you when you were that age. You're having memories of yourself at that age when he was that age. Yes. I literally just heard this from one of my friends. Yeah. And because you don't have any memory of it cuz like you're 3 months old, it's confusing at the time. You feel like you're going a little bit crazy. Yeah. But there's also the invitation to heal what has always been felt in the cells. Um, so yeah, that's what I wasn't ready for. I wish I knew that cuz I would have like equipped myself a little more. How would you have equipped yourself? So, for someone who's maybe, you know, pregnant or thinking about having children, like this may be blowing some people's mind, like, wait a minute, that's it's going to present me not only the opportunity to parent my child and that feels a little, you know, crazy and daunting. Am I going to be able to do that? But then I also have to reparent myself in the process. Well, first of all, you don't have to do it. It will come up. Um, and you can choose, right? You don't have to go there. What I would say is um just with the awareness that these things can come up and they don't always make logical sense because it is preverbal. I just say don't try and overanalyze and judge what you are feeling. Sometimes it can be sematic like you might just want to you might feel anger come up, you might feel rage, you might feel um uh grief and so find ways to process that without overthinking it too much. Um, and then the second thing that I would have done is I would have researched it a little more and and found like a therapist or someone um that I could kind of call towards if I ever needed it cuz it took me it it it drew me. So it took me like about a year to be like, "Oh, this is what's happening." You know, to go find somebody. Yeah. Yeah. So just talking to someone would have been like a huge help for you. Yeah. having having the language because I think when you've got the language it's a lot easier cuz it's it's less personal and more like oh this is an actual thing. Yeah. And so I had a couple of girlfriends who um were also experiencing it around the same time but we didn't really know what it was. You know what I mean? So was it coming up the same way for them? Just like frustration, anger, like not knowing different for them. I think different for for different people. for me I it would come up um like rage in the middle of the night and I didn't know what it was. It wasn't about anything in particular. So yeah, I that's what I didn't understand. But I also know that um you know like any big change that we go through in our life, it is like an initiation if it will were initiate to be initiated is to initiate an energy step towards it. And so it was an invitation to step more into that. And so for me, the physicality of birth um uh connected me with um power and gifts of my ancestry, but also um grief, trauma, wounds. That's the bit I didn't understand as well. So yeah, like seeing all of your family's patterns that you had held. Yes. Yes. What were some that came blaringly clear that you were like, "Oh, this isn't going to be what I'm going to pass on." Good question. So, my mom before she had me, um the baby she had before was uh 10 years before me. Okay. And she was 15 and so she got sent away. It was very secret like and she didn't get to like have her baby. Oh, wow. and daughter Jim Gil and Shen and then so I was the baby that came after and um I didn't find out I'd asked my mom about my birth cuz they say that um like we were all born right every single one of us we came through the body of a a woman or how however they identify and we have an imprint of that and so I knew about that and I find that so fascinating this is all the preverbal stuff as well and um and so would ask mom a whole lot of information and she didn't really give me much except for came out really fast and I think that that kind of describes me to a tea in my life. came early as like go let's get it done but it wasn't until after I had my son and I actually ended up in hospital I had mustitis um I almost died actually on um I had a home birth but then the day three um when my milk came in um I I was severely sick uh and um I then came back home and and mom then remembered that when she had me there were um there were not many um hospital beds cuz there were too many babies being born at that at that time must been full moon or something. And um we shared a room with a woman who had just lost her baby. And so for that first week as she was recovering and I was there like my cries kind of brought on her grief and and brought her milk in and all of that. And so that was like a really huge thing. I it didn't make logical sense what happened to me. But I knew that that imprint was there. And so um what I started realizing was um how much um grief that I had in my system from that first experience of being here on the planet. And I can see that my son has a little bit of that imprint too. And so I really wanted to work on clearing that. see before my daughter came um you know if she ends up having children herself I'm not sure but yeah so that was a really big one and um it's a big theme in the book the he healing the motherline but in the end um I think these things these challenges that we have end up being the medicine you know it's like what we most need ourselves and um so I I there's this ceremony that I do now called healing the mother line and it is really about clearing that line and and and and so we can receive the blessings and the prayers and the gifts about ancestors as well. Yeah. Yeah. Have you found you're talking to women that, you know, my age, midlife, whose moms are now, you know, 60s, '7s, have you found that a lot of those women don't really, it's like your moms don't necessarily even know or remember a lot of the things that happened to them? Because when I ask questions or I know when my friends have asked questions, it's almost like it's almost like for such a a safety mechanism that they just block it out one. Yeah, you feel it and we feel a little bit crazy. We're like, what on earth? Like something must have happened, but you're not aware of it. What do you what do you say around that when you go into something and and you try to heal that? What does that even look like? Well, first of all, like we and and if we look at what has happened with women, kind of going back to the riot sister's book, so many crimes against the bean and and all the way back, right? And and so much consciousness has been brought to light particularly recently. And what I see happening is that many of us are actually processing and feeling through feeling what has not been safe to be felt or like able to be u comprehended. Communicated comprehens Yeah. And so it is this um really complex tension I think between the different generations versus you know sometimes you just have to survive. Sometimes you just have to get on with it and if the consciousness isn't there like it's it's not it's it's quite rare to be a to process something but I have seen and maybe you have as well and maybe you've even experienced it. It does seem like something is happening now where we are feeling these things that have been pushed beneath the surface. And I think it can make you feel like you're going crazy because in many cases it's not ours. It's not ours. But you know it it doesn't mean that we we just go oh it's yours like you right because it's way way way beyond beyond that. Yeah. And I think that what many of us are being invited to explore just this complexity of what mother means or whether not being mother wanting to be mother being mother and not feeling good enough or not feeling like we've been motherthered well enough. you know, mother is such a complex archetype and I think that in our society like mothers really have been set up to fail and um there has only been a certain type of mother that's been welcomed, you know, and um I think that all of us, every person has that yearning for mother, but it's also like yearning for connection to earth, connection connection to feminine connection to ourselves connection to each other and so much is projected on that archetype that yeah it's it's a lot I think there's so much fear around being a mom and there's so much around our own mothers like you said a big a big conversation in my friend groups is about getting that compassion back for our mothers because don't get me wrong we we love them but definitely I feel there's a conversation around they weren't able to acknowledge a lot in their like time growing up because it just it a lot of it was like survival for them or some of them you know grew up in I mean honestly some of them were like wartime some of them were a lot of them were like struggling or poor or you know I'm from I'm from the Midwest so it wasn't a lot of my friends growing up like they just really struggled their family struggled and so like having that compassion for your mother that the fact that she can't necessarily even acknowledge what happened or acknowledge how you you were feeling. Um cuz sometimes that can feel like you're being gaslit, like it didn't happen, or you should just tuck it under the rug again and just go on and buck up and deal with it, which is where a lot of our achiever can come from, right? Um but then when you're like, "This isn't serving me anymore." Like sometimes it happens, you know, it can happen at any age, but your 30s or 40s and you're like, "Oh, I cannot go on like this." Yeah. This is not a sustainable way of being. and it can all bubble up and feel so overwhelming. How have you been able to have you have have you heard that conversation from women? Have you been able to help them kind of um look at that relationship with what they're trying to heal? How do you come at it with more compassion? Yeah. So I think the first thing is uh my friend Binie Dansby has this wonderful meditation where she it's a forgiveness meditation and she says it's forgiving where you imagine your mother or father but particularly mother having all the things that they ever wanted and just like you know whether it's an art studio whether it's like you know what whatever whatever that is and I think that that's an instrumental way of kind decoupling these expectations and misfires with your mom, you know, and yeah, so I think that's a a really really simple way of doing it. I think another one is to recognize that we can only meet someone to the degree that we've been met ourselves or have chosen to meet ourselves too. And um yeah, there's definitely this grieving process that has to happen. Um but if we if we do feel like we haven't been met um by particularly our mother, we have this decision to make, are we going to individuate or are we going to look to them and and and and just be feel unmet for the rest of our lives and then project that onto everyone around us? And it's been interesting cuz I think with my work I'd always um like my meditations had always been very feminine, very goddess, very great mother where you kind of like are taken into the arms of the mother. Um and since becoming a man myself as well, I started creating a whole lot of practices like I've got this song that is um based on like this humming that I would hum to my kids when they would not sleep. And I thought I was like creating it for them. I wasn't as I'm reading it for myself and when I'm rocking them I'm often being like like those nights where like they just won't settle more, you know, and I I'm like, "Oh my gosh, I don't know how to do this." There was this one point where I all of a sudden was like, "Oh my gosh, I can't I I can't hold this being myself. Like that's not possible." And I could feel this like trigger ring of like maybe times where maybe as a child or whatever. It's because I didn't feel completely held myself. And there was this shift where I realized no no I need to be held by a force greater than a bio biological woman or a adopted woman. This one person who is responsible for making me feel safe and held on this entire planet. like it's not possible for one person to judge that and um so yeah this shift of like how can I fall into my own arms how can I fall into the arms of the great mother and I think that is so important you know I I trained as a a shaman and uh when we were creating our altar it's like a portable altar there was this piece of material that we were meant to um gather um which you wrap it up and then you kind It's like your teaching altar and you you it travels around with you and I couldn't quite work out this piece of material because everyone was ordering it from um where one of our teachers were from from Peru. It didn't quite feel right to me and I kept on questioning kept on questioning. The teacher said, "Well, traditionally the reason it is this type of um cloth, which is the cloth that most people were getting, is because what happened when you became the medicine person, is that you went from the biological mother and father or adopted mother and father to the being held by the goddess, the earth, father sky. So you surrendered the role of the individual to being part of like the cosmos really in the earth and that that piece of material was actually the baby blanket from when you were a child that you would wrap the altar up in. And that really changed stuff for me because I really saw how so many of my students and myself included had been looking towards these two individuals to meet you in all the ways like in this like godly or goddess way and then being constantly disappointed. And then when you're able to like release that and be held by something bigger and greater like the ocean, like the earth, like the sky, it changes a lot. I think how do we start doing that? Cuz that that absolutely was my journey years ago was like letting go of like not even letting go, the realization that they were human too, dealing with their own stuff. Like even for me, thinking about the age they were at and what they were going through and like really making them human and realizing that they're human was a huge like it allowed me to see all of the things that were great about them and instead of these expectations like you say where we want these people to be everything to us all the time, but that also wouldn't allow us to discover ourselves and how to take care of ourselves. So what are some things that you have done to do because some people may not understand like how I support like how do I let the earth support me or the ocean or this guy like that may not they may not comprehend that at all. What does that look like? So if anyone meditates the other there's I've got a practice that I do um called earth pulsing where and you could do it like just at the beach right? Yeah. You lay down. No one even needs to know that you're doing it. And you just lay down and relax basically. And really let gravity hold you. Like see cuz so often we're like holding ourselves together and you just really let go. Get heavier and heavier and heavier and imagine yourself to be really really with all of your weight being held by the earth. Um, another thing you can do if you want to take it to the next level is, um, if you imagine the back of your heart, you know, when you're against the the earth, um, or any any any service, you can kind of feel your heart beating, you're inviting your heart to slow down cuz so often we're going a million miles an hour. We're relying on our own strength versus like this intelligence that tells the planet to spin. And that's exhausting. It's exhausting. It's exhausting. And so what you're really doing is imagining that um you know that intelligent pulse that tells the seasons to come and go, the tides to roll in and out, um the whole planet to spin, the the moon to wax and wayne. You're imagining that there's this pulse of the planet which obviously is connected to the whole cosmos as well. And you're inviting the beat of your own heart to just regulate with that. So, you're kind of really just saying, "I surrender. I surrender. I'll slow down to the pace of my body. I'll slow down to the pace of the earth." And yeah, it's just a really rejuvenating form of meditation that when I first um uh started doing that meditation, it was around the time that I I wrote Rise, Sister Rise, I remember feeling so guilty because all my body was wanting to do was lay down and relax. And I prided myself so much on like go go go make it all happen, you know, act on um the calls within. And all my body wanted to do was exhale and go into that feminine. So yeah, I love those two because they are, you know, in in both of them, you're essentially just acknowledging what state you're going through life in. like, "Oh, I had no idea I was grasping." And like, you know, it's really hard to, they use this example all the time, but like we're kind of clenched. It's it's hard to hear something to when your fist is clenched. So, it's like if you open up, it allows you to stop thinking one way in one track of your to-do list of what has to get done and all the things cuz that's a very clenching energy. Yes. And it opens everything up to you and you start noticing more. Yes. Yeah. Anything else you guys like when you first do it because it won't feel great. It doesn't feel great the first time if you're in that really clenched. Yeah. If anything else, it's like this awareness that there's more. Like, yeah, just let go. Oh, there's things trying to talk to. Oh my gosh, it's so good. I love that analogy you said about you can't receive with the clench fist. I think that is it. Like if you were to repeat like a word or a mantra, we can just say, I'm willing to receive. I'm open to receiving like that is the feminine way as well. And uh I think also like there's we're we're constantly going through inner seasons in our life as well. And there are times where we're in that spring summer energy where it is go go go and you're acting and making stuff happen. Then there are other phases that we go through where it's fall, it's winter, and I think that we're not taught to know how to navigate those times and they're not brief. And they will. Yeah. We're worried that we're like, why these are f they'll they'll pass, right? They'll pass, right? And I'm like, oh my god. Yeah, let's talk about those because yeah, this is really when I was when I was ringing through your book and you know you talk about how life is a series of initiations and first of all when you look at it that way that is so powerful instead of going why is this happening to why is this because I think you can relate to this when I first got into spirituality like really deep into it I came from a very religious background so I kind of went the extreme other way for a while to kind of find the middle and so what ended up happening is when I was in the spiritual world ear early early on let's say 2013 2014 for me when I really started diving in I had this belief that if things were going wrong or I was in a in a tough season for a long period of time that I was doing something wrong I had to be manifesting wrong I had to be meditating wrong you know I was disconnected from God I couldn't feel myself I couldn't hear you know that voice that I was normally hearing and it felt really lonely it felt like I was like left alone or not special or not being do you know what I'm saying? Like all of these things and now I can look through my life and say wow the darkest times were actually the most powerful like potent experiences for me of becoming of not hearing things. So tell me about your kind of I know you have some experiences for you that really transformed you. Totally. I love this conversation. So, okay. So, I had periods which have been amazing. Like big visions. It's like dramatic. Everything's happening. I'm alive. And don't get me wrong, like I will have that any day. Say it's served up. Come on. But it's not sustainable. And I think so much is not known about the awakening process that it it often is this like thrill seeking trying to reach that high point like almost like we would with like people are addicted to substances, right? It's like trying to trying to sustain it constantly. That's not the law of the earth. It's not the law of nature. Things are always meant to change. There's one particular period I had thought I'd been through the dark night of the soul. I hadn't. I'd been through the dark night of the ego, heartbreak, rock bottoms, all of that. But I hadn't been through a dark night of the soul. What the dark knight of the soul is is um similar to Anana's descent where it feels like you're being hurdled underground and you cannot see where you're going. you are not even sure where the path is taking you only that you are being taken somewhere. So, John of the Cross um he is uh probably the most well known for the phrase the dark night of the soul and he drew on an ancient text called the cloud of unknowing which essentially says I long for these periods where I was intimate with God or goddess like or spirit where has my God gone? Mhm. And I think this is the hardest bit of the dark night of the soul because we have had the direct experience of that oneness of that union and we're experiencing this cloud of unknowing this severing this separation. I have a theory that what happens and and I think that there the awakening process never ends and it's not like a a step-by-step manual and I have noticed there are common phases that people do go through. So at first it's like awakening of the mind where you're like oh my god like past lives or whatever it is like but you're you're it's information and you're you're trying to um learn it all and discover it all to kind of get to the purpose of life and then as if like it's this linear process to get to often then there is awakening of the heart um which can come through it can come through love it can also come through extreme loss grief um whether it's loss of job, loss of relationship, um death, that kind of thing. The invitation there and these are all invitations which is essentially initiations and you say yes to it or you say no to it. The invitation there is that the heart kind of gets stretched open, ripped open um and it it kind of some space is created for the soul to come more fully in. There's another phase which is more of like a a spiritual energy uprise. Some people may have experienced as it as a condundalini awakening where it's the dormant spiritual energy in spiraling up. It does seem like an upward motion. It's ecstatic. It's like intimate with life and God maybe other people as well um sexually. And then there is a period which I call the descent where it often follows these different periods where um uh more space has been created for the soul to drop in more fully. And so you've had that depth of connection, but then we're kind of hurdled into the underground of our cellular memory, our ancestral memory. Um and then also collective memory and that's why it can feel like really disorientating and almost like what is happening to me like completely lost completely lost of disorientated version of yourself that you've ever liked almost. Yeah. It it's it's so dark. So dark. Yeah. Yeah. And and but those those ancient myths like Anana going going into the underground, they really can guide us through it. And the thing about these myths is um ultimately you are going through it alone. But if you get to the other side, you know that no matter what, you can face anything that's coming your way. And there is an an unshakableness that emerges within us when we have gone through a dark night of the soul because we know that no matter what happens, we're going to be okay. We have found our ground and it was probably much further down than we ever would have dreamed, but we know where the ground is. And the thing about you know where it's this period where we're facing ash our individual shadow, collective shadow, ancestral shadow, all of that. The thing is there's solidness that can be found having gone through that and faced that because those shadows were always there. We were just kind of they were just behind our gaze but we could feel them, you know. So there is a safety that we can find in ourselves when we go through that and that's why it really is an initiation and I think for many of us it can happen. I mean astrologically there are transits that happen in midlife that are set up perfectly for them. We grew up curing about the midlife crisis which is that cliche of the the guy with the with the convertible. Oh my gosh. midlife awakening is way more intense than that. And we, our generations, are living in way more intense times. And so, a we kind of got this um fusion of energy that you could say, you know, like people say, "Oh my gosh, Mercury in retrograde, I hate it." What if we're not victim to it? What if it's just part of these times that we at soul level choose to be here for? What if these things that are happening in the stars are actually happening within us too because we are connected to that? That's what I believe. Yeah. I I you know when you're in it, you wouldn't wish on your worst enemy. And this is so interesting because now I was just in a rabbit hole with one of my friends and I was saying, you know, when I really love someone, I'm just thinking of like the darkest moments in my life. And those moments that you say, I was really pondering this phrase because I love to analyze everything. I wouldn't wish this, you know, I wouldn't wish this on anyone. And I'm like, I would actually wish this on my best friend because it's the ultimate journey of getting to know that you're safe and you'll be okay. like you'll ultimately no matter what happens is in life you will be okay and it it's horrible going through it truly it's just like the thought of it like having your best friend or your husband or your partner or you go through it like there are people listening to this right now who are actually in fear deep fear of it because maybe they know they haven't gone through it yet what would you tell them how do you approach it I know for me one of the things that's really helped me and I'd love to hear what's helped you um I dove into um Cabala fairly recently in the past couple years, but it's really like thank like thanking it for the opportunity a lot of what you're saying like you know thank you for this what is it trying to turn me into like what part of it is something that I need to confront and I know for me that my version of the dark knight had to do with being so afraid of disappointing people I love and being abandoned and so that's exactly what had I had to go through for like two years like Okay, even if I disappointed everyone and even if I truly like got cut off from all of these people, I'd still be I'd still be okay. And that has been my life initiation over and over again. I'll start with like a very restrictive religion, but you do them over and over until you're finally like you're like, I think I'm free. And what helped you to navigate that the most, would you say? My gosh, I didn't navigate it well at first. Like I actually started like drinking too much wine. and I got really depressed. I I wasn't even really telling my husband until I started talking about it. Talking about it really helped me navigate it. But it's almost like I did have to face off with myself and just be like I got to a place where I'm like I I can't live this way anymore. I got to a place where I was like I have to start taking care of myself. Like I got back into my I got my health routine back slowly. I started praying more every single day and being like, "God, take this." Like I actually can't carry it. It's way too heavy. And I started um like letting that go and just actually picturing myself like handing that album over, like handing it up. And really really started just a couple people like needing to talk through it with people like this is where I'm at. It was like a deep shame and fear around so many things. So it was it was a long process, but on the other side it was like it was absolutely required. or I was in prison. Yeah. Every decision I was making was based off of what will they think? Will they like me? Is this right? And I I didn't used to be that way. And it it like came back with a vengeance. So, thank you for sharing that. I I really appreciate you sharing um as well. Like at first I did it and I went to alcohol or whatever. But I think the thing with that is like there is no judgment. We can only deal with things when we're ready to deal with them and we have coping mechanisms. which are actually supporting us until we're ready. Yeah. To do that. And yeah, it it's interesting hearing you reflect on that, too. I'm just like really like feeling like you going in and mothering yourself and you being like, "Okay, let me be held by something greater." Like you feel like you're just falling backwards and you can't like it's just getting so low that you you're like, "I have to hand this over. I can't do it." And it's always those worst fears like the the the worst thing that we could have possibly imagined ends up knocking at our door and then through facing that or or being forced to just be like, "Okay, this is this is where I'm at right now." It's like it's what makes us that very thing that we think is going to break us. It does break us, but it transforms us into something else. And like we were talking um off camera before about how um important it is for relationships and these are my words are yours to to kind of have a death in order to like I think I'm on my relationship with my husband and they're completely different relationships and parts of me have had to die and that relationship was going to continue and and it takes both saying that over and over again and choosing it over and over again. And I think that exists as well like within ourselves. Okay. So you talk a lot about that the parts of you having to die. What does that feel like? How do you know when you have to kill one? Like like it's like face off the yourself, you know? I'm kind of having to kill a major part of me right now is just um focus. Oh, I am watching myself like I can actually watch myself as I sit to get a lot of I have a lot of projects right now. I want to do all of them and I know that I can, but it's going to take another level of focus that I abs I absolutely know what's in me. I'm not in the verge of where I feel like I'm hustling and pushing. It feels like this is very important for me to conquer. Like something creatively and big things want to come through, but it's going to require organization and focus. Yeah. And so what needs to die? This part of me that loves getting distracted. Yeah. like that want that has trouble sitting still for long periods of time like I know I can train that part of me it's very easy to create a story around it like no I've never been that way or I think sometimes right when I'm on the brink of the best things I sabotage it oh totally that I sorry normal with you know saying well I must have ADD or which I I really think I do about ADHD but at the same time I I know that I can sit through it like I know it's like a very important part of me to to harness. Yeah. The part of me that is dying and has been like a very slow slow death is the perfectionist part of me. So I like with me I don't really have that. Oh, you don't? Oh my god. It's the one that scans and preempts things. I've just made a big decision in my business and it will not go to plan if that old part of me um continues to yeah exist. I'm a Virgo Scorpio rising. The Virgo is dying. She has got me so far though. Like yeah because her I've gotten to where I am but it is literally not sustainable for my health. It's not sustainable for my marriage. It's not sustainable for my business. it's not sustainable for any part of my life for her to continue on and um I think she she is a survival mechanism and many of my gifts have been um cultivated through her but really she's just being um is the disregulated nervous system who's trying to preempt um risk and manage the um before it comes up you know and so we think this is the the thing We we realize that these parts of us that even maybe ended up being the thing that that captivated others to us, we have to choose ourself and uh h at what cost is is is this thing um staying around. How are you how are you working through that when you see it? Is it is it that a lot of things are taking how does your perfectionist show up? Is it that a lot of things are taking too long? Does it take too much time? You want to move quicker? What does that what does that look like? I would say um how I'm overcoming it is um so I' I'm changing the way my um my business model is staying the same but my team is really changing around it and the systems that we use and all that and so I'm doing something which feels so like out of character for me which is my number one goal for the year is to let go of control and to do this change. Now that change that I would do would normally I'd just be doing it on the side. It wouldn't be my focus for the year. It would just be like of course I'm doing that and all these projects and this book and done. So yeah, how I'm I'm I'm approaching it is by making it my number one thing like the number one priority because otherwise I would just like go into that hyper vigilance or you know being like I need to check everything you know that kind of thing. go more into micromanagement because if I am going into a period of change, it's how I coin safety and checking everything's okay, you know. Yeah. What are you hoping I mean obviously we love to there's a you know which which is so funny like there's a version of control and letting go because there's a part of you that wants to let go and hopes that you have like more control or you let something that's so badly. But boy, what are you hoping opens up for you by letting that go? Does it make you feel kind of like a prisoner or No. So what I'm I'm what I know is on the other side of it is depth and potency of creation. A feeling of being free. Free in my ability to create. I I did this mushroom journey. Actually, I've only done mushrooms a couple of times, but I had this I was I I knew that I was feeling trapped. And I also know when you feel trapped, you're disconnected to spirit and soul. And so, you know, with my work, that's pretty important. And so, I really wanted to look at it. And the visual I got was I was at the bottom of the ocean. Um, there were whales all around. And all I wanted to do was swim in the depths. And so, for me, that was like, you know, it was the the mystery and the soul and creativity and all of that. And then I had this like perspect dome over me. Um, and I realized that the perspect do stone was what I needed for protection and in my business and systems and and and dear friends who had been called to support my um my journey as well and that they were protecting me and they needed to but I had healed my nervous system enough that I didn't need that anymore and all I wanted to do was swim in the ocean and those things that I had erected around me to make me feel safe um in the world as my mission grew. I no longer needed that anymore. And if I was to step into the next part of my work and and and calling, it had to go. So, one of your chapters is titled You Came Here with Medicine, Not Candy. What does that mean to you specifically? It means it's like that that call to um create create create or rather produce produce produce rather than all the time like scrolling on Instagram looking around seeing what everyone else is doing and feeling like you're getting behind like that you're going to miss your moment, miss your boat, miss the way that you came in on. I mean that's what it's telling us every day and every day and and it's comparison. It's it's all of that. There's never enough time. There's more that we're meant to centual and unto. Yeah. Just all the Exactly. Exactly. And I think the thing is you came here with medicine, not candy, is really forcing us to get clear on what we're really here for. Like there's so many ways that we can express that call within. But if we're looking at the external to guide us, it's always going to be more watered down. And so the medicine is what is truly yours to do and the candy is just tuning it out. Yeah. How have you felt about community along all of this? Like what role has that played? When do you bring community in? Because sometimes when you're in that really dark time, it's like yes, you had mentioned you really are alone for certain periods of time. When have you brought community in and how do you do that into into these moments? M beautiful question. So I have always been drawn to really wise older people. I got a lot of older friends and I think when you're going through a period that uh like an initiatory period, it takes someone who has also been through their own initiation for sure to be able to sit with you. And you can tell that that they're that person cuz they're not trying to figure it out. They're just like they know that you just need to go through it. So they're not actually I mean if you're asking them to help you solve something that's another thing but ultimately they're they're just sitting with you and and they're like I know you're going to get through it and I and I'm here with you and ultimately like it's you who's going to get you through it and and so I think that has definitely um been helpful frustrating as well because sometimes you just want it to be fixed but it takes that depth of knowing I think as well Um I have gotten a lot of comfort in um so the work I do like I hold I create sacred spaces sacred containers for us to step in together and um to be in those sacred places whether it's um I'm holding space online or if it's like at a retreat or in person where we just acknowledge where we're at and that some people will be going through a difficult period others will be flying and really really great but it everything that's going to eb and flow as time goes on. And if we able to step into that space together and just acknowledge what season we're in, something incredible happens like that. I do this um exercise every time I do hold sacred space where we we meet in circle whether it's digitally or not. Um connect with the heart and then send love, compassion, whims on your left and you're receiving it. And so you're getting into that connection, grace space regardless of how you are individually. And I think that when you step into that type of space, there's a holding that can happen that that yeah, if we're going through a challenging period, it's it's hard to feel. So that's always nourished me even if I've been going through extreme times, being able to be in that sacred space with other people regardless of where they're at. Because I think it's exhausting when people are pretending everything's fine. It's just exhaust. So I was just going to ask you that. So for people in it, it's it especially if it feels, you know, moments of darkness feel quote unquote out of character for a lot of people like especially if they're not open like you or people know that I will pretty much share everything in my life now. Um and it can feel super isolating even especially if they're perfectionists too, right? Because they can be expected to be that version of them all the time. And I I feel this so much for really public personas as well because you don't necessarily get a break or show up online or show up in your business or you're the leader. How do you do you think it's smart to kind of share where you're at with people? Like what is that question? For me, I I I don't share it as I'm going through it. Um I I try and be as honest as I can in intimate spaces. Yeah. It's hard to fake it sometimes. It's hard to fake it. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. But I think what is important um I think there's two parts to it. First of all, just like the the non-public part of it is I think just being honest. So authenticity they say is the highest vibration. It's higher than gratitude. Authenticity is also saying I'm having a really time. Yeah. Like not having to try and hold it together. Like I remember talking to my friend Binnie who um was she's 86 now. I think she was 84 at the time and I was like I I often like will walk and talk with my friends um as in like you know they live in different cities and we go for a walk together um on the phone and I remember saying to her I just feel like I'm in a ditch and I can't but it was funny like and so we would laugh. She's like how's the ditch going? I'd be like notes from the ditch. And actually, she ended up I did my book launch. Um she ended up introducing me and I read out a um a poem that she had founded. I'm like, "Oh my god, Biddy, I wrote that after we were laughing about where I was." That's so funny. And she was drawn to it. Yeah. Yeah. And and I think it was I can't remember what the title was, but then I said, "Oh my gosh, the that was um I think that the poem was the fertile void of her becoming and I said the title I actually wrote to that was notes from the ditch." That doesn't humor like when you're when you're being true to your actual experience, humor can come in and it can break through it, you know? And so I think that's super important. the the whole being a public persona or figure or whatever you want to call it while you are going through periods of transformation. Personally, I don't think it's it's helpful for anyone, especially yourself to just give the running commentary when you're navigating something that you don't necessarily understand. Now, I'm not saying don't talk about it. I just mean, you know, you want to keep some kind of processing in your sacred spaces because yes, it it like the internet is triggering for everyone. Even if you you've done your work, you're going to trigger something in someone else and you don't want to have to deal with that stuff on top of it. And so, yeah, I'd always I always on the the side of be authentic. You can say, "Wo, um, things are really intense for me right now, or I'm navigating a lot and learning a lot," or, you know, Yeah. or work out what it is that you can, um, lead others through, um, really strongly regardless of what you're going through. Yeah. Um, I definitely have found that when I have gone through difficult periods, I have held beautiful sacred spaces for other people because my heart is tender. itself. Actually, I'm not holding things together. I'm just kind of like, all right, I actually need to surrender into something greater than me now because I'm feeling a bit fragile in myself. And I've found that more grace can come in that way. And so, I guess it's different for each of us like what our gift is and what we're supporting others through. But I think that when we are going through difficult periods, even I'm thinking like other times when I was working like as a creative director and going through grief and loss and end of relationships, I did some of my best work cuz work actually really helped me. It held me through it. So yeah, how do you find all of that? I mean the same as you when it's when it comes to like sharing for sure. Um, I feel like I can't not share where I'm at, but not fully at all. Meaning, I'm not going to share the details of what's happening, but just I'm having a bit of a hard time. Like, I know this is going to be beautiful, but I just and I don't necessarily announce that to everyone, but just people who know, you know, know me or team members or things like that. But it it's really hard to fake it if you are really in the season. And I also think it's helpful for people to know like you're saying you're you're right because it also it waves a little flag that says I could use a little bit of extra support and I think it's important to get extra support during that time if you need it whether that's a friend being like hey I'm just checking in on you and to get those texts or whatever that looks like. So, I know some people are like, you know, don't share anything, but I think it's vital to share to your community, like you said, be able to have a binnie in your life. Who can be in the ditch with you or make or make jokes about it? Yeah. Um I know that you do uh retreats as well. Um are you still doing them this year or next year? I am. I'm going to be at Omega um in the summer. So, that one planned. Yeah, you're doing you're doing a retreat in the That's awesome. Um, just because if if people are looking for tools right now, they're wondering, "Oh, I just I feel like I need something because maybe they don't have support in their life or maybe they're ready to break through or they really resonated with this conversation. Where can they where can they go be in your community?" Yeah, for sure. So, I've got the sanctuary, which is a beautiful community. It's my membership. It's like loads of spiritual practice, but we meet in sacred circle once a month. This is just a beautiful part of the internet. So, that's probably the best place. Um then of course I've got my books and cards on um Amazon and all these places. What would you say to the woman who is in that dark period right now? Like how can what what wisdom would you want to give her? I'd say stay connected to your body. Try not to attach yourself to um the deeper meaning of what's happening. Like just one step after the other after the other. that often those things that feel like they're cracking us open and breaking us are actually making us. This is like rebirth, you know, but sometimes um we experience the contraction before the expansion. It's literally the codes of life, the codes of nature. I want you just to to give one more message from that other side so they know that there's, you know, something such a bigger version of them waiting. What would you what would you how would you explain that? Well, change is the one certain thing of life and that if things are changing in your life, it's because you're becoming who you will one day soon be. So, connect in with that version of you that you are becoming. I love I love thinking that if things are changing in your life, like if things are r, you know, right rising up and if things are happening and things feel dark, it's because there's change trying to come through. M and like for that next version. Yeah. That's the initiation, the required path to get there. That's the exact so beautiful. Yeah. When things are the same, I'm the same person. Exactly. And then, you know, it's the most natural thing in the world for that change to come. Um you can either try and keep things as they are like all tightly bound or whatever, but you're literally going against the law of the earth if you're doing that. I feel that so much. That's so good. Thank you so much for coming on the show. Well, where can we where can we get your book? Um, head over to rebecca.mme and um or any any place you buy books, you'll find it there. You guys go and check it out because truly it is like poetry. You're such a beautiful author that even on some of, you know, even some of the things that maybe don't resonate with you, you're such a beautiful writer that it still resonates. So, I'm like, this is just beautiful reading. It really is. It's like some of my favorite coffee reading. It reminded me right away. I was like, "Ah, I I remember how much I loved like reading your book in the morning, just drinking my coffee. It just felt like the most It felt like a treat." I was like, "This is the best." Like a soul treat. So, thank you so much. And you guys make sure you go follow Rebecca. We'll put everything in the show notes and we'll put the link to the book, too. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye ruin.