shut out all the noise and anyone that's saying to you, "Well, this isn't gonna, you know, I don't think you should be doing this." >> Did you have that? >> Yeah, I had loads of people saying to me, I tuned it out. Even for my husband, he's like, "Emma, we're not moving to the US. We're not we're not leaving to >> literally the same." I'm like, "Uh-huh." Are you talking >> because you're coming with two, you just don't you just don't know yet. Yeah. But it's going to be your idea even though it's mine. And eventually, you're going to be pretty happy. And they are. They're great. >> They are. Emma, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. >> Oh my gosh, thank you so much for having me, Lori. I'm so excited. >> There are so many exciting things about this moment right now. There is We're both going to say at the same time, this is my very first podcast. This is it. >> Podcast virgin. Not for long. Not anymore. >> No, this is it. You You popped my cherry, Lauri. You popped my cherry. >> I did. You're welcome. Why do I feel like this is going to be the beginning of many many You're you're such a natural speaker. >> I mean, thank you. No, you're you're so like already, you guys, she's turned on her camera a couple times for like social media, for Instagram. I'm like, "Oh, she's so natural that just wait. There's something is going to something happens when this podcast mic is in front of you and I don't even know what's going to happen. >> Yeah. I mean I maybe that's come from like the performance cuz maybe I don't think I've told you this but I was back in the day um like a work a bit of a working actress back in the UK. >> None of this surprises me. >> But um so I was I was so used to you know being in front of the camera. Although I was always with the crew. I was never really with the actors that much. I was always with the crew. And so for me just talk and I'm a people's person as well and obviously you know I do for a living but I I yeah I don't mind just having a good old chinwag and chatting. >> Okay so chinwag means a chat. Chinwag means a chat in the UK as if anyone everyone's that's listening I'm British but um a lot of people that now living in the UK living in the US sorry um they ask if I'm Australian oddly yes I get that a lot and no I'm not Australian I'm I'm very much British >> you look like you could be Australian though I think like the blonde and the bronze like you just look like you should be on a beach >> people sometimes say that they're like you're Australian I'm like no I'm British uh but I've been in the US 14 years so this is home. >> So, Chim podcast name Chimwags with >> Chimwag. >> That's your podcast name. >> Oh, yeah. I love that. Yeah. You just you've just coined my my Yeah, the podcast. That's that's it. >> Chimwags and and makeup or Chimwags and branding. I don't even know what >> Chinwagon Glow Chin Wagon Glow. >> Yeah. >> Oh, we like >> Chinwag coffee and glow. >> All the favorite things. >> Cuz I love a good coffee. Yeah. >> Same. I don't have coffee for you right now, but it is like >> Okay. It's evening. >> The Yeah, it's fine. The water's >> Okay, great. Yeah. >> Okay. So, I found you because I was looking for like I don't even know. I probably Googled like best celebrity makeup artist um in Los Angeles because I was shooting a fitness magazine cover. >> Yes. >> Got the front cover magazine at home. >> Oh my god. I found you and I loved you because you had such a good vibe online and obviously your your makeup is so freaking good. Like I feel like you are the best at just creating the most glowy, bronzy, natural, but still a tiny bit glam. Like I just I'm obsessed. I feel like you're the best of the best. And whenever I've had big things in my life, I've either called you or I've called Nora >> who's with my company >> and she's freaking amazing. I'm obsessed with her. >> Yeah, love Nora. Um, and so you have become a massive celebrity makeup artist who go is doing all of these beautiful faces that when I scroll past them, I'm like, "Oh, that's on Emma's page. That's celebrities. >> That's just Emma doing her face in the chair." >> Well, thank you very much for saying that. I I mean, it's it's hard for me to take compliments. I've I think that's the Brit the pure Brit. Um, and I don't think I'll ever change. Um I yeah I don't I don't take compliments too well but like over the years the clientele like you was saying about scrolling over my page and seeing who I work with but the I have to honestly thank my clients as well for kind of >> getting me to where I I am. I feel like a lot of people in the business especially on the makeup and hair side. I also do men's grooming as well but um I don't actually post too much about my actor guys which I need to do more of. But uh I do think a lot of uh makeup and hair crews kind of I think maybe some do forget you know they've built that following they've got that following and some even you know go skyrocket you know with their following but it's kind of because of who they are working with right and they're they're massive platforms and that they get tagged in those pictures and they get you know and that to me I'm so grateful and so thankful and always will be and even after this I I worked some people I've been with 10 years, 14, 13 years, they're like part of my family. And I could >> honestly I can almost like get emotional thinking about even, you know, all these people that have been so loyal um and and still pick up the phone and message and like m can you know come with me to do this? Can you come with me to do that? And I'm so so I just I'm very aware of um you know I do think it's a combination you know it's yeah I mean it's you know I do what I do um and I bring what I you know to the table and I'm through and through. I'm like a hustler and a grafter and I work my backside off. Um, >> but I think it's a combination of, you know, the growth is also combined with the people I work with, you know, and that they, you know, they're always tagging me and sharing me and, you know, the projects they do. And so, it's like a journey that I've been on with so many of them >> um that I that I've got them to thank for that as well. But there's reasons for that for sure because there are a lot of people who have worked gotten the opportunity to work with amazing people, but they haven't understood how to nurture that relationship or show up in a way that makes them want to use them again. So, I think I think that there's a lot there that I I actually want to dig into. >> Yeah. >> So, I'm going to put a pin in that because I want to go back to when you first got started >> and what was what was the first inspiration? So you said that you were you had been an actress for a hot second. >> Yes. >> And then where did it turn to makeup? >> So I was I was always like I was saying to you, I always been with the I love being with the crew and I loved being with the makeup and hair people and doing bits of acting and modeling back in the UK. Um I you know used to just constantly be asking the teams questions and like I want to do what you're doing and they're like well you know you're you're on the other side of the camera. like that you were asking. So you were acting asking the makeup teams like how do they do it? >> I was I was like an actress on a job on a you know TV series. I guess you guys over here call them series regulars whatever. So I I did like some big commercials. I did you know TV as regular series regulars. But whenever I was >> you know going in for my hair and makeup I was constantly with you know asking those people questions and wanting to be opposite of what I >> and then and then like Emma, you you know come we need to get you out of the chair. You need to go get into costume. you need to go get on set. And I'm like, no, but I want to just be with you guys. What are you using on me? And so eventually one of them was like, you know, go away, maybe do a course if you're really interested. >> Um, and I always used to do my arts at school. I knew, you know, even performing people would be like, get Emma to do their hair and makeup or like if I was doing plays and stuff when I was younger. >> So I I creatively I you know, I just had a hand of it. Um I I guess and then uh from a very young age um I also was working in a hairdressers. I actually started in hair um when I was 12 years old actually. I took myself off to my local hairdressers and I said to my mom and dad, I'm going to work in the local hairdressers. And so you had to be 13 to get a Saturday job back in the UK. I was 12 years old and I took myself down to my local hairdressers and I was like, I will do anything. I will sweep your floors and make your customers tea. Um, just give me a job. And so I was very sort of forthcoming and and they sort of was like, we can't say no to this. So I got a Saturday job in a hairdressers from the age of 12. >> Um, but I should have been 13. And from the age of 12 to 18, I worked in a hairdressers. Uh, so from a very young age, I had, you know, a very strong work ethic and I knew what I kind of wanted to do. I still loved doing the acting, but I loved doing the makeup and hair. Uh, roll on. Obviously, going fast forward now to the days when I was doing my bits of acting. Um, I took some time out and I did a makeup and hair course. Um, that's that ranged from everything from special effects to wig work to the whole shebang at London College of Fashion in the UK. >> Um, just off Oxford Street. a lot of people it's like known for arts and and makeup, hair, all different um creative design >> and uh and then I eventually basically started pestering all the makeup and hair people that I worked with on that used to do makeup and hair on me >> to work with them to assist them >> and I did not stop until one of them was like okay we're going to we'll take you on like let's do a test. >> Where do you think that came from though? because most people are like, "I'm so scared. I don't want to ask. I feel like a burden." What made you not feel like a burden at all? In fact, like totally opposite. Um I It wasn't even the the the thing of the the fact that I thought that I knew I could do it. It was just like the I guess excitement, adrenaline, and um the not knowing kind of in my heart and my head what I wanted to do and thinking, okay, what do I need to do to get to that next step >> and these are the people that I loved what they did on me. So, I want to work with them or assist them or do anything. And so, and I knew without, like I said, don't take compliments too well, without like AI guess saying that I could knew what I could do. Um, I knew I could do the job. I knew if they gave me that chance, I'd be able to prove, you know, just what I could offer them. And so, yeah, I think, um, >> was that like from putting in the reps, you think? Like you just had confidence because you had done so much work to that point? >> Uh, well, yes and no. I hadn't like worked on the makeup and hair side as such that point. But I think it was just knowing that I I guess I could tell that even when my I did my makeup and hair course like the teacher would be the one that would you know she said at the end of the course like here's my number. I feel like you you can go on and do things like you know out of the out of the and you know being aware of >> without saying you know oh I knew I was good you know um I being being aware of my surroundings and other people that was that I was training with and the levels that what I was achieving to what they were achieving. I guess I knew that there was certain things I could do um from like a young age anyway. Um, and so I kind of in my head I just had that vision of where I wanted to be and I just carried on being persistent until Yeah. Um, there was a makeup artist, a very well-known makeup artist. She's Maggie Hunt. Um, uh, and she was one of the first people that's like, "Okay, Emma, I she did my makeup for a big project back in uh, Belgium many, many years ago." And I persistedly just contacted her, did >> cuz you loved her work. >> Cuz I loved her work. and I was like assist her. Yeah. She was just she's just amazing. >> What was it about her that you were so drawn to? >> Um she well first of all she's like was like the princess Diana of like makeup and she also she you know she's worked with the royals. She's worked with huge celebrities. >> Um and I remember her doing my makeup one time and me looking in the mirror just in awe of of the the talent and and seeing the the what she'd done on my face and >> how we all feel with you. Okay. Continue. Um, I I just knew I wanted to work. She went and she had a calming demeanor and she was so lovely. Um, and I just I just really wanted to assist her. Um, and so I kept emailing her until eventually one day and she actually said to me, "Emma, I I just, you know, quite honestly, you just kept being persistent and you didn't stop." So I, in the end, I just thought I'd give you a go just to kind of get you off my back. And she said, you know, she didn't realize that I would be as good as what she thought. Yeah. >> Um she just kind of almost wanted to be like, "Oh, you know, stop emailing me." >> Yeah. Like get the screen out of the way. Stop emailing me. And um and so cuz I asked her that. I was like, "Why did you actually choose me in the end to come and do a test?" And she was like, "Well, quite frankly, just to get you off my back, Emma, because like you just kept emailing me." Um and then lo and behold, I carried on. I started assisting her. And um >> that fell into I started doing more work on makeup and hair. And um I fell into um doing work at the BBC. a big te television company back in the UK and uh a very influential person in my life back in the UK who took me on to her show as her personal uh Syra Khan. Um love her. We still are in touch to this day. um she's a very well-known uh famous personality back in the UK and she had her own show called Beat the Boss and I was her makeup and hair person on the show and I will never forget that hustle and grind and what I saw in her and she would be the one that's like, "Emma, you need to do this. You need to get a website. You need to pitch yourself to more people. You need to put yourself out there. You need to get makeup and hair cards done. You need to do this. You need to do that." And she was a very a powerful force of nature that I kind of that pushed me to, you know, she was like, "Here's my website guy. Go and get your website done." You know, and so >> And you would do it. >> And I would Yeah. And I would do it pretty quickly. And I I would do it. Yeah. I I got it done. She >> People want to help people who who do the work. >> Yeah. I was just, you know, um uh and I remember her always saying to me, you know, whoever shouts the loudest, like that's the person I would respond to or, you know, get back to the first. And so I would be I guess the person that yeah if I wanted something I just did not stop until you know and there's obviously many doors that get closed in your face and people say no but I uh yeah I had that vision and I stayed with it and um and yeah was doing Syra can't so I started doing sort of more celebrity stuff back in the UK. >> Yeah. Okay. So two things on that. What were you doing that maybe you weren't aware of that you have said multiple times now? You're like, I had this vision. Did you feed the vision? Would you listen to music and think about it? Like how, you know, people who like have that big vision for their life, they stay really close to it? >> Yeah. >> How would you stay close to it? Were you a natural dreamer? Would you go for runs and think about it? Would you journal about it? Or was it just like you thought about it all the time? >> I'm really into manifestation. >> Okay, great. I I really wish now thinking back of even my journey to even come over to the US as well and and even having our first daughter Coco, I really wish that I'd written this down because it was honestly everything when I say this I had I've got very tunnel vision when it comes to the things I I want to try and achieve. Yeah. >> And you know like all of us sometimes things can take you know longer. Um, but I don't ever get uh what's the word? I I mean I don't get ever sort of uh sad or um for one of a better word or or I I don't ever dwell on what I haven't got right now or think about. >> I love living, you know, in the present and just being appreciative and grateful for what I've achieved so far. But I I really kind of >> I put it out there to the universe of what I want. And I remember years ago I did used to walk with my Walkman back then. It was a Walkman days. >> Totally. >> Yep. >> And I used to listen to music. Um I remember and but but I I'm I'm a person that's very excited with life and I do and I have that energy. I I you know I I read many years ago like all those books, the manifestation, the secret and all those things. >> And um I just remember having that sort of vision in my head and seeing it. So, I never journaled per se, but I had it all in my head. I didn't even like do you know um boards like you know what the vision board vision boards and things like that, but I had the vision board in my head in your head. >> Thought about it all the time >> and I would walk and walk and walk and and you know, if I went to the gym back in the day, I haven't worked out for many years now, but um I would I would have that vision and uh and be like, "Okay, what's the next step? What what am I going to do now to make that a reality?" And so each step of the way like in between my makeup and hair course I was you know helping my dad down his shop because my dad's an entrepreneur. He's got his own companies and I'd be like I know in my head in years to come I don't I you know to grow it's you know invariably it's great to have a team around you. So I knew that I wanted to have a team and like almost like a makeup agency almost like I just knew that back in the day. >> And had you seen that around you before or was this like something you just thought of from other things you saw? Are you ready to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Ara helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 247. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AIdriven personalization. Everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns and hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use codeappy50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to brevo.com/happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. If you've ever run a business, you know the workplace chaos is real. I'm talking deadline slipping, someone's out sick, your tech decides to break midlaunch, and suddenly you're doing three people's jobs. Like, I'm totally cool. I'm fine. Don't worry about me. And in those moments when you realize you don't need another person, you need the right person. This is a job for sponsored jobs. And if I had to hire for my team right now, I wouldn't just post a job and hope that the right unicorn magically finds it. I'd want someone who understands our pace, can handle the chaos, and has the exact skills we need, whether that's editing, ops, social, or customer experience. That's why I'd use Indeed sponsored jobs because it boosts your job posts in search results so you can reach quality candidates who actually match what you're looking for, like specific skills, certifications, or even location. And with sponsored jobs, you only pay for results. People are finding quality hires on Indeed. Right now, in the minute I've been talking to you, companies like yours made 27 hires on Indeed, according to Indeed data worldwide, which is wild. And also exactly the point when you need the right hire, sponsored jobs is the solution. Spend less time searching and more time actually interviewing candidates who check all your boxes. Less stress, less time, more results. When you need the right person to cut through the chaos, this is a job for Indeed sponsored jobs. And listeners of this show will get a $75 sponsored job credit to help get your job the premium status it deserves at indeed.com/mpodcast. Just go to indeed.commpodcast right now and support our show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed.commpodcast terms and conditions apply. Need to hire? This is a job for Indeed sponsored jobs. No, I just thought to myself, well, you the best you need more people because you can't do everything on your own. And then obviously over the years that came to fruition. That ended up happening because it was like, well, Emma, I've got booked three, four times today, but I can't be in four places at once if they're all in different crazy locations. So, I need my team around me to then go and do, you know, those jobs. Mhm. >> Um, and but on a business side, how do I grow that and and make that like a a successful business where I'm earning commission and it's making sense than than just handing off jobs to just friends or other people that I know. And I knew that I didn't want to just do that because I know there's people in the business that do do that in in my area, but I wanted to create uh like a company, a team. Um, so even though it's it's a small boutique hair and makeup agency, um, I class them as my team, you know, kind of it's not I don't even think of them as assistants, per se, like if I've got like another job, they're, you know, artists in their own right as well. But, um, back back in the day, yeah, I knew that I wanted to have a company. So, even back then, I thought of the name that I wanted it to be, and everyone would be like, well, why aren't you just calling it your name? or why you know what if you have a makeup products one day what would you call it then but again I just I came up with contour fosser um all the areas of the face that you contour or you add warmth to to structure it um are called fossers so every part of your face is you know your or the eyes are orbital fossils um the forehead is infatoral foss they're all foss so I thought contour fossa so that was where and I thought of that that name came to me as I was sitting down my dad's shop one day in between doing a little bit of work for my dad. Yeah. Um but like building my dream um back back then I was creating it then. Back then I was I I had that vision and that's what I first called my first website like Contosa. >> Oh my god, I love that story so much. I feel like the name of my podcast came like six years before it was a podcast. I didn't really know what it was. I was like, it's going to be something. I can't figure out what it will be. But I just it's like I held on to that vision and I just kept asking like what is that and what does it mean? And then I realized I really like um Facebook came out. I really loved talking like long form or writing long form and then I was like oh my god I think it's like a long form >> interview show talking to people about how they created contour fossa. >> Yeah. Oh yes. >> But I love that like sometimes a name can pop in before like even the whole vision is there when it's going to be >> Absolutely. Yeah. >> Yeah. I love that so much. Okay. So, you've said um a couple times about building like you said, I can't do anything alone. Where did that come from? How did you know that? Because honestly, the number one pitfall of early entrepreneurs is that they feel like they have to do it all on their own. >> Well, first of all, it's, you know, it it was kind of me building everything like myself in the beginning. Um but the the team part of knowing that eventually I want to have a company uh was also in my mind thinking to myself >> for later in I mean look I'm still I I still think my company is tiny it's like growing still it's not you know anywhere um but I also used to think at a young age you know what about passive income and other things that you can do that it's not just you and you're going to be able to earn money while you're sleeping um and try to ex like grow on that. And so even though I had to kind of be the engine behind it all and you know to this day I still am doing that like a lot of the time even some of the jobs and the jobs I get my girls it's come from you know me being unavailable >> and again I mean so grateful to even be able to say this because there's people that are out there that are not necessarily busy in in this uh you know field and then I you know pitch hard and push my other team my artists onto that said like client that I can't potenti potentially do >> in hopes that then they would build a connection with them. So then they you know they would call them back so then that grows for that person and so it keeps it keeps growing you know so but for me uh it's still I do still have that control feeling. I I have one amazing girl Maddie who works for me for the company to help me build the company >> pushes as an agent and everything >> great on email talk to her. >> Um yeah she's amazing. Um, and yeah, and it's Maddie's great because we we are so >> like on the same so connected that we we're so connected that sometimes it's not even like we can you can go >> nail and to each other. It's like yeah it's like almost like a family member where you can say anything to. >> So it's because of that it's um it's good because it's not just even though she works for me it's it's not a yes person. She's definitely not a yes person. It's good for me to have that because she's like no I think we should do it this way. I think you need to we we need to put that person on that you know she'll help me with the company. >> So that took a long time to find someone that I trusted >> for that. >> Um because like you were saying about you know doing everything yourself and controlling everything yourself. At some point I knew that I did have to relinquish control to take it to that next level >> and also actually spend more money to earn. What's that saying where you you you spend more to earn like to get more money back like as in you you end up >> you know >> spend more to earn more just I mean essentially what is that saying >> you know that kind of where you like you you end up you know you're you know you can you're spending more money to like grow something because eventually it's going to come round >> you have to invest back into your company. Yeah, basically investing back into my company and to to know, you know, even like my husband wasn't really sure of where, you know, I was going with trying to push for other artists to give work, especially in this town. Everyone's like, "Oh my god, you give you give work away to other people and like you you push them onto like other maybe celebrities. why aren't you saying no and like just doing yourself or trying to >> and I'm like well that you know eventually you know I can't just I'm not you know it's gonna some at some point you know say stop for me or you know I'll get to a certain age where I'm not going to be lugging around a 60 pound kit anymore >> but it it still definitely does >> I'm still kind of the main engine behind it all but I've definitely learned to release um control over you know those over things where I know it's going to benefit in the long run. >> Yeah, there's so much there because one of one of the cool things that you said that I hope everybody caught is that you you know when you want to grow, you had to sell your people to some of your clients. And this is I remember when I owned a gym and I hired other trainers, I actually really had to hard pitch my current clients because they did not want to go with these other trainers. >> Oh my god, this is exactly the same thing. >> I was like, honestly, they're better than me in this area. >> Yes. And I would say that I'd be like, "Well, girls, once you've had like or like I will say to one of my clients, once you've had like Nora or one of my girls, you're not going to want to ask me back, you know?" And then you're like, but but in my mind, I'm like, "That's I can't that's how I can grow, right? Because if they then if I then pitch them and I get them with that client, okay, >> um that's another say a regular person that they're going to constantly and then I'm still working, right? I'm still doing another job or whatever. and then another client comes along and I can pitch someone and it it can only grow. So like sometimes also I've tried to tell my girls let me help you help me to help you. >> It's a bit kind of like a you know cuz there's sometimes a pride thing in this business. Some want to say that you know they're wpped by someone or that like oh Emma gives me a major like lack scarcity mentality in a lot of businesses especially I feel like that beauty industry could be like they're going to take or poach or like >> 100%. And I'm like, guys, you know, also as well, part of me is like I've tried to cultivate and and build this team, and I'm like, if we all collectively all kind of if you can't do a job or you're sick, if you're putting our team on those clients, you're never going to lose that client, right? But if you just say no to not being available for a client that you've worked with for a long time and let them potentially get another artist or someone in the business, work on them, >> you hope in hell that they don't prefer them over you because >> once they do, then you're it's not going to stay within the family that I'm trying to create and build, you know. >> Yeah. Um, so yeah, for me it's that's still that is actually still a thing I'm really trying to push and work on as well because it can still be hard to this day even though I've kind of we've got artists now in Austin and in New York um and in LA and then I obviously actually my sister in the UK, she's a makeup artist as well. Yeah. um she started assisting me when I was starting out in the UK and so I brought her on board. But um so we're kind of slowly expanding. It's a grind and it's a hustle every every day. Yeah. >> Um but I'm and I'm you know I learn new things every single day and it's just being open-minded to certain challenges and changes along the way and growing and adapting with them. I think the cool thing about the the team that you're building too, like the selling points that I think of for for what you're doing is, you know, not everyone has your zone of genius, which is why which is you can attract the client and sell. And that's really rare for a creative as well. So, I feel like with you, you're the per you're like the top of funnel, they kind of call it, where they're you're the top person, the main person that they interact with. Yeah. Not a lot of makeup artists or stylists or creatives in general, like I find a lot of times they can't they don't fully understand selling. They don't want to go get the client. Yes. >> They just want to be in their art. >> So, what you're doing for people is truly being the magnet, attracting the client, letting them be in the art, which a lot of people don't want to be the business person or the front-facing Yeah. >> person to attract people. Yeah. So that's why I think what you're doing is is like if you're looking for those type of people who like, hey, if you're this genius artist who doesn't always want to have to worry about where your clients are coming from, like this is a perfect home for you. >> Yes. >> Cuz they just get to be in that, you know, that zone and not have to do the other stuff. >> Totally. Because then and especially if you're not doing as many clients like maybe you could just do your you know what I mean your celebrities or your favorite people that you've had for years like then you can be that magnet to trickle down. It makes it makes so much sense for your personality type. I'm like this is exactly where you're supposed to be. Yeah. I mean, honestly, you kind of summed that up there because that's kind of what and more I feel like to today I'm doing AI'm I'm almost it's not quite there, you know, but I feel like it's definitely I've definitely pushing to that that way where I'm, you know, I'm mainly with, you know, my main people that I've worked with for many many years. And I'm I guess without saying, you know, to me it's still it still feel cuz I'm so grateful and and thankful for everything. But I guess I am at that position now where I kind of can sort of pick and choose a bit more or decide what um it only in the way of you know I'm a mom as well. We've got two as you showed in order to grow, you know, a 10-year-old Coco and Milo's, she's three, um, two girls and my husband and and it's unfortunately, you know, and then we even on I do high-end weddings and brides on the side, but at some point I had to put my rates up for my weddings because it's like I wasn't becoming unavailable for my regulars. Yeah. and they're the ones that help me grow the, you know, the company and, you know, I guess on the celebrity side, you know, and what where I've become, you know, a little bit more known in the business. And so is picking and choosing what makes sense. Yeah. And then fortunately over the years because of working with these people and and also not minding being on camera and social media, I very fortunately then started working with more brands and you know ones that very organically you know work well with me and that fit well that I use the products on myself, >> use the product on my clients or even like my daughter now with hair products. Um, that makes sense. Cuz for me, no matter what, it has to I can't I can be like when you say like I'm a seller. I can I can I I will I can sell any like I would be but it has to make I can't put anything on my page if it's not organic to me and I don't genuinely love it. And my followers like fortunately I've had some my followers have been with me since Coco was born. 10 like over 10 years. Yeah. And I love, you know, I live in my DMs. My followers will know that, you know, I'll always answer their questions even about, you know, skincare and makeup. That's why sometimes I don't get posts up so often because I'm answering all the questions in my DMs. They're like, "Someone help me. My daughter's got bad skinare like issue, like skin issues, like what can you advise?" And I'm like answering like, "Tell me, send me pictures of what issues you have and I'm going to answer you back, you know." So I I do try to cover all aspects. >> Yeah. And so sometimes I don't sleep and just live off coffee. >> You know, I love you're you're you're so generous and you're such a giver and I remember um just sitting in your chair for hours because that's what we do when you're on a shoot as well. >> Um and I remember being like I remember thinking like, "Oh my gosh, this woman is so generous. I almost want I I like almost want her to be less generous to grow your business more because I'm like this was back in the day." But I was also thinking um that you know what you do is so cool because I don't know if you've if you've I'm sure you've thought of it this way but the more you remove yourself the more you build other people's careers. Like that is so cool. >> Yeah. >> Like you it grow you get to grow other people's careers when you pull back and do what you're best at. >> I mean you're you're best at makeup but let's also be honest. But I actually think your ability to speak and sell what you do and create makeup artists who duplicate what you do is so powerful. >> Yeah. I Well, thank you for saying that. And actually now when like hearing you say that out loud, it's almost >> I I I feel like for me honestly I feel like I need to actually hone and push that more because I don't >> you know there's many people that will will ask me about or about you know tuition or classes or even when I remember speaking to you about the courses you guys you guys do and all this on the business side of things >> you know having more growth and reaching more people as opposed to just me personally going out to do you know a job. So I feel like there is a there is a transition now in my in my life that I have started to even just this year really um to really think of more about that side of the business and really where I can >> you know push it and uh grow it you know even more than where it's at right right now. >> Yeah. you're you're passing on education, you're creating careers, which is honestly if if someone whenever we recognize that in people, we're like um you need to be doing that cuz number one, the world needs it. Number two, it like I said, creatives aren't necessarily business people and they need a great workplace and they need somewhere that they can grow. And I think the the super amazing thing about you is what I've seen, what I've learned from your Instagram, what I've learned even just from this short time is you love to be you love to get extra education. You love to learn new things. you'll love to pass that on to your team. Not everyone is doing that. So, you have this like >> building career for people and a trickle down effect for everyone. So, when a woman is capable of doing those things, I'm like, "Oh my god, >> go create more." Like, >> I need to Yeah, it's just I think it's honestly as well I've kind of got to the point where again about saying spending more money to earn more money. Um, even having I do my own social, but I honestly I do need I've been thinking that I, you know, I need to maybe, you know, put a little bit money behind that and have someone help me on the social side to also build the social media on the agency side because we've been I've not been posting so much on the agency page um, now for a long time because of just, you know, bandwidth and just not having the um, uh, the the time to do that because I'm trying to juggle all these. >> Oh my god. It's the entrepreneur. Yeah, >> it's like it's the constant entrepreneurial like juggle of okay, I'm growing, but I'm so maxed out. I don't even have time to think of hiring someone or who would I even need. It's it's a lot to like make time make time to work on your business, not just in your business is like >> Yeah. the hardest part. Yeah. and and being able to sort of >> try and uh be more present when I'm not working per se at home and being with my family and you know in between because what when I finish a job that job's not finished you know a lot of the time you know I'm the one that's taking content on my phone sometimes as well BTS and my clients I get back my clients will be like send me pics m and then I'm like oh crap I've got to go through all the images go and then I've got my brushes to wash and then I've then Coco and Milo are there and then I've I I maybe have to get on a flight at 4 a.m. 6 am in the morning or be at the airport or whatever. So, it is a constant, you know, hustle and grind. However, >> first and foremost, I love what I do with a passion. I love it. I think you to to to grow and to expand, you have to >> absolutely unequivocally love what you do with a passion. And I feel like then it helps it can only help and um you to achieve those things and not feel burnt burnt out as such, you know. I mean, yes, I drink a lot of coffee and I and I love my coffee. Um, but I have like that zest and that excitement for life and just being so grateful to be able to do what I do >> and and I don't take a second of that for granted, especially in LA in in the business. Like there's so many and I get, you know, I find it sometimes emotional when I read messages from people that are like, "How Emma, how did you get your break into working with celebrities? How did you how did you make it?" Even like people will message me that. And I look at that and I almost like want to cry like some because I'm like, "Oh my god." Like little do they know I'm I'm like I'm still like I haven't made it per se, you know, in my mind. I'm like I don't ever think of it like that. Um, but I'm like, if you I can I get back to those people. I try and answer everyone that messages me. Um, but sometimes that can be hard. But I'm like, if you find something you love doing with a passion, don't worry about the money. First of all, you don't think about the money. You know, like back in the day, I was, and I still am to a degree. I probably shouldn't say that on on here, but like I think I am a yes person. I'm a yes person. So, you know, ultimately, yes, I've become a lot more on the business side as well and like I'll hard pitch my girls the best rates I can, you know, but for myself, I'm like I love connecting with new clients. I love connecting with new people because I'm like once you get in there, then you can work on, you know, and the money and all that kind of stuff that that all comes that eventually will come and it does come. But sometimes people especially starting out I think a lot of people are scared or worried to uh to not uh be earning or they think they should be earning certain amounts of money at certain period of time in life or how long you >> you I don't think you can you know you know know your vision of what you want >> um be prepared to work 110% like like 150% like above and beyond what you do you know even when I So, as a makeup and hair person, I'm not just on set with you as a makeup and hair. Like, I'm there doing I will, you know, run and get, you know, I do the whole shebang like and I give the energy that I give and I, you know, like I'm slathering up the body and I'm doing the whole Yeah. Like, you're multiple people on set, >> but I'm Yeah, but I'm doing kind of, you know, I'm >> You're doing above and beyond most anyone does for sure. >> And I think that has helped me grow as well. >> Absolutely. that you burned into my brain cuz I was like this woman has so I I think and I want to ask you some characteristics that you think of a of a you know successful person but I think that you just named one of my favorites that just I will never forget someone and I always want to work with them more their team if it's like you know to me I'm like wait she works with all of these people yet she's running around doing all of these other things I was like that is a human who just like gets it who I want to be around who I want to be like who I want to like look I want to all the people I want especially especially your makeup people your hair people your extension people even if you can your nail people like you are becoming those people that you're around and I think that that is why you have been so successful and you're going to be even more wildly successful is because people want to be around that energy because you rub off on them like the enthusiasm the energy so in your opinion what are the three traits that you feel like make people successful or have made you successful? >> Oh, that's a good question. That have um I guess what is it? Like tenacity for life? Like what's that? >> Like enthusiasm for life like >> Yes, that's the wrong word, right? Tenacity. >> I'm like tenacity is great as well. Yeah. >> Um you Yeah. I I love making other people feel amazing. I love >> I love life and I love I'm a very positive, happy person. Um I'm uh I I just I wish that sometimes people Yeah. I feel like it's I guess my energy and my um hustle and work ethic and my uh zest for life has helped a lot in my success. I think that kind of but I'm trying to think like if you was asking me three three specific um I don't know how I could I I I find that hard to answer in terms of because I feel like it's a combination of you know firsthand being able to do what I do you know I guess on the talent side like you know bringing the goods to the table >> like hard work and learning like continued education like hustle >> hustle hard work um the energy you know like having I I mean I guess maybe that's the performance side of myself, but but that when I say that that's it's a natural thing for me. It's there's no >> performing per se. It's it's that's me. Like my clients, my long-term clients know it, my family know it, my friends know it. Like what you see, there's no that is >> like if you you follow me on Instagram and see that is my person that's me. I do think it's um I think that alone can has been beneficial and I think I it's because people have actually told me that as well. >> Yeah, for sure. >> Over the years. Um well, you're in really important life moments. So someone to bring like enthusiasm, energy, and then obviously you have the skill set that you you're working on that you're always working on. Like I feel so passionately about those two things, energy and enthusiasm. Like so passionately. And I wouldn't say it it comes super naturally to me. I've had to learn it. But now it feels natural because I've made myself be like, you're walking into a client's house or you're about to do a podcast. Like >> raise your vibration. Like what energy do you want to leave them with? And I always have to think that. >> So for you it's not like it's just natural. You're like I'm going to make this person feel amazing. Like do you think about that before you go in? >> No. You know that moment when a meeting ends and someone says let's remember to circle back on this next week. Everyone nods, but no one writes it down and next week rolls around and everyone forgets. That's why Granola exists. Granola is an AI powered notepad built for the way real people actually meet. Here's how it works. You take rough notes like you normally would. And in the background, Granola securely transcribes the meeting. Then it turns everything into a clean, structured, actually useful notes when the meeting ends. And the best part is that Granola works through your devices audio, which means it integrates seamlessly into the video conferencing tools you already use. And there's no setup and there's no awkward bots. It's just your normal meeting with superpowers. So you get to actually listen instead of frantically typing every word and still walk away knowing exactly what was decided, who's doing what, and what comes next. And I have to tell you that before using Granola, my meetings were very much the classic entrepreneur chaos where I jump from mastermind calls to team meetings to partnerships, scribbling notes everywhere. Then spending extra time afterward trying to piece together action items or remember what we actually decided. So the first time I saw Granola's notes after a meeting, I was honestly shocked by how organized and complete everything was. It felt like getting my brain back. Now I can actually stay present in the conversation instead of worrying about capturing every single detail. So if you're in a season of big vision, big conversations, and a lot of moving parts, Granola makes sure nothing falls through the cracks. If meetings are eating up your day, Granola is a no-brainer. You can try it totally free for three months. Just head to granola.AI/earn. That's granola.AI/earn to get your time back. Get three months free at granola.AI. If you've ever had that moment where you're ready to start the business and the idea will not leave you alone, but then you hit that wall where you don't actually know how to set it up, this is for you. When you're ready to start your business, it's not just about filing paperwork. It's about building your real business identity from day one. And that's exactly what Northwest Registered Agent helps you do. Your business identity is everything that makes your business legitimate and professional. From public records and compliance to your website, email, and phone number. With Northwest Registered Agent, you don't just form a business. You start with a complete foundation built for privacy, credibility, and growth. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws, and can help you and your business every step of the way. When you form your business with Northwest, you get a complete business identity. You also get access to thousands of free guides, tools, and attorney drafted documents to help you run your business with confidence. No upsells, no selling your data. Everything is built and managed in-house under their privacy by default promise. Sign up for a free account and manage your business with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale, and more, all in one place. All at no cost. And when you're ready for more, you can add domains, email addresses, phone numbers, and services anytime. Don't pay hundreds or thousands of dollars for what you can get from Northwest for free. Visit northwestregistered.com/earnfree and start using free resources to build something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered agent at northwestregisteredagent.comfree. >> No, I just it's like I just honestly it might sound cheesy, but I just honestly I I love >> um I love being around people. There's nothing that I have to think to myself, oh, what should I be saying now? Or what do I need to do to make this situation I mean, half the time doing what I do, I feel like a therapist and because honestly, I've had moments. Yeah. I mean, I' I've rocked up to brides places before where they've like, you know, they've had a meltdown and I'm like having to like, you know, cuz one thing or whatever and I'm having to think, oh, I've got to get them in the chair and then like, you know, 40 minutes has passed. I got to get them down aisle. >> Oh my god, my chair. This is my responsibility. >> And like I'm having to hold their shoulders. And I'm like, look, the sun is shining. It's blue skies outside. All your family and friends are here. There's nothing wrong with this moment in time. You should be happy. You're going to have the best, you know, and but all of it does come natural to me. Sometimes I do think to myself, oh maybe if I wasn't doing what I do, I think I probably would be a good therapist >> or like a good because I don't um it's not fake. It's honestly it's not fake. I don't have to think of turning up the energy. Like I although on on the switch side I do know how to read a room like especially working with celebrities and and being in certain rooms. >> I can be I can be extremely quiet and know when to not speak. You know I'm you know I know when to listen and to take a minute. >> That's so important. >> Um because yes that's extremely important especially in the line of work that we do. Um, sometimes you can't be that person. Yeah. >> Uh, but people who genuinely do know me, I will just I will go up to anyone and be like, "Nice to meet you. My name's Emma. What's your name? Like, what are we doing here? Are we going to have a good day? Let's make today a freaking awesome day." Yeah. >> And I I just think life is too short not to firstly chase your dream. Like, chase what you have in your head and what you want to create. Um, and don't worry about the obstacles that you that keep I mean I remember when I first moved to the US and like I was married and I had like Graeme me and my husband had been together since we were 17 years old and you know and his family and my family were like what why are you why are you going to America like what what why are you do you've got we you know had a house back in the UK I was doing very well with makeup and hair and bits of acting in the UK and they were like why are you moving to the US and I just I had, you know, if you're open to it. I do firmly believe that signs, you know, I'm not overtly spiritual, right? But I very much insert, you know, my white feathers following me around. And I do firmly believe that um if you're in tune with your own thoughts and your own body, that you can really like things can sometimes come to you um without you closing them off. Um, and you if you follow that path and what you feel to be you're meant to be doing, >> uh, just shut out all the other noise. Like close shut out all the noise and anyone that's saying to you, "Well, this isn't going to, you know, I don't think you should be doing this." >> Did you have that? >> Yeah. I had loads of people saying to me, "Yeah." So, you know, and honestly, it was so strange. I had like a when people would say that I would have like a not no way condescending or anything but I'd have a smile on my face and be like don't worry about it guys it's gonna be fine it's gonna be fine like I just I just knew I just knew that what dream I had in my head that I just want wanted to chase that I didn't listen to you know anyone else >> you tuned it out >> I tuned it out even for my husband he's like Emma we're not moving to the US we're not we're not leaving to >> literally the same. I'm like, "Uh-huh. Are you talking >> because you're coming with two. You just don't you just don't know yet." Yeah. But it's going to be your idea even though it's mine. >> And then eventually you're going to be pretty happy with with the love. >> And they are. They're great. >> They are. Yeah. Graeme. I mean, within a year of moving to the US, Graeme's like, I love it here. Why didn't we come sooner? Like, I knew it. It's going to be great. Yeah. >> Um, speaking of enthusiasm for life, I know that you have had you've had some stuff that rocked you, though. You found out that you had melanoma. I did. stage three. How did you find that out? >> Uh gosh, I was I was pregnant at the time and who knew that when you're pregnant, >> you know, you your moles moles and freckles. >> Yeah. >> Uh when you're pregnant, a hormone in pregnancy, I never knew this before, but now I do. You can they can turn cancerous. >> I didn't know this. >> Yes. And so anyway, I don't obviously, you know, I'm no doctor, so I won't talk further on that, but there is something to do with pregnancy and and moles and stuff, so everyone get checked if you're pregnant and you've got any moles or freckles that you think are a little bit odd looking. I had a a a large mole on my leg for many, many years. And when I was pregnant, I did not stop working. Um, and I carried on and on and my and and a an a freckle mole did become a little bit oddlooking. But again, because I'm not a warrior and I just um go go and don't stop, I was like, I'm gonna have the baby. I'm gonna have Milo because our kids were named before they were born. >> I'm gonna have Coco and Milo. And um so we knew, you know, what we was having and we we named I was like, I'm going to go in have Milo and then I will get the the mole checked. >> She was four weeks old. Uh even the doctors in when I was having Milo, they were like, you need to get that mole checked on your leg. And I was like, I'm going to I'm going to And I remember we came back from the hospital. She was 3 weeks, I think 3 weeks old. And they called and they were like, we've we need to get you in immediately for surgery. Like they didn't even um >> Oh god. >> They told us it's a stage they didn't actually tell us the stage at that point, but they said it's a stage where it's like almost it could have spread already on that phone call was um uh they said it's it's deeper than what it was. It was 2C with ulceration which is almost it's just below the stage three melanoma um skin cancer and obviously melanoma is one of the worst ones you can get as as a skin cancer goes >> um but he had gone to a stage where they thought he had spread to my groin my lymph nodes and so and I remember that day when they when we got the call and Milo was laying on my lap and my husband was sitting next to me and I remember that a few days later I had to fly to Nashville for one of my brides. And uh my husband at the time, which you should never do, started googling everything. And I'm like, I I'm not going to listen or look at that. And so when they told me, I was very just matter of fact about >> Did you numb out or did you not let it in or >> Yeah, I kind of I didn't necessarily numb out. I kind of didn't I mean, I let it in. I realized, oh, I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] that's not good." >> Yeah. Did you like get dizzy? Was that like were you like, "Oh my god." >> I was like, "That's not good." You know, I was a bit like, "Wo." Um, but I, like I said before, I'm a very positive person. Um, and I thought to myself, okay, we now know something's we need to get it sorted. I physically right now can't do anything about the fact that what they've just told me and I've got these other things coming up. And so, what do we need to do? the next stages to get it sorted and to kind of navigate and move through. And so, yeah, like kind of roll on. I did I went to Nashville. I did my I did my bride. Um I didn't tell anyone. I didn't I didn't let it out. I didn't, you know, I I >> Did that feel better for you or worse? >> It it No, it just I'm like I'm like this is going to be I'm you know, steadfast in like this cannot it cannot have spread to my lymph nodes and so I'm going to be okay. Obviously at that time though I didn't know right and I remember going in for the wide leg um uh wide leg incision like surgery and at that point that's when they had to do the like the nuclear mapping and that um they would have to wait still a week after the main surgery um which they carved out half my like the side of my leg which I joke now and like I'm like oh it's given me a little bit of shape on my thigh so >> quad sweep they call that >> I'm like oh that's a bit of a quad sweep bonus. Um and so they were like, "Well, we're not it's going to take a week for us to um get the detach the the biopsy." They had to go into my groin and get the biopsy back and to see if it had spread to my lymph nodes. And obviously that was going to be I mean that was the moment where I did think that actually ultimately would be a lifechanging really like a life-changing moment. Mhm. >> Um but in my true positive sort of steadfast manner, I said to my the surgeons afterwards, "Okay, it's my daughter's birthday this week and we booked to go to Disney." And he's like, "Emma, you would have just come out of surgery. You cannot be going to Disneyland and walking around Disney and you're gonna you're gonna have stitch. You're gonna have to have your leg up." And I was say I said to him, "Look, if there's any place you can wait for a week to find out if you have like if you're if the bloody melanoma cancer spread to my lymph nodes, Disneyland, Disneyland is the place." So I was like, "You know what? I'm just going to get one of those scooters, those electronical scooters." >> Did you? >> So I he was like, they both there was like three doctors in the room and they basically was advising me definitely not to go to Disney. And I was like, "Guys, I'm sorry, but I'm going to Disney. I'm not I'm not missing my daughter's birthday." And so with my bandaged up leg barely able to like walk on it, we went to Disney and we spent the week at Disney um for her birthday and wait like obviously knowing that we was going to hear the results at the end of the week and so that's what we did and we had like four week old Milo and we went spent the week in Disney and I was on a scooter and um and just the whole time I just thought this we are going to get good results. we cannot get it can't can't be the opposite and thankfully thankfully we got the call at the end of the week when we got returned from and we got the call that it had not spread to my love god >> uh but still we had that whole kind of uh seven days of of waiting um >> and also I did think to myself >> even if it had at that point there was not like everyone was saying you should have got it checked ages ago why don't you get that checked ages ago at the end of the day it was that I couldn't change. I couldn't turn back time, could I? So, it's you have to deal with what's given to you at hand. So, I I did kind of >> I did they kind of spoke to me what the process would be afterwards if if if it had spread and stuff and what I would have to go what and um I just thought well we will have to tackle that if that happens you know we will tackle that and we will >> you know whatever needs to be what needs to happen but thankfully it didn't end up being >> oh thank god >> that way. Did that change anything for you moving forward like with how you viewed family or how you viewed your business or did it change anything? There was a moment of thinking wow again like wow how >> you know life just in general and how quickly things can change. >> Yeah. >> Um but I am also one of those ones where I mean even I say it to my kids grow like Milo's only three but Koko's 10. over the years growing up, it's I always think to myself, there's someone else in a worse position. >> You know, >> there's someone else in a way worse position right now. Even though, yes, this could have been bad and thankfully it wasn't, but you know, someone's, you know, you turn on the news and all these awful things that happen to, you know, people and people lose, you know, their loved one, you know, and I'm like, God, look, I've got nothing to complain about. So, I'm very much like one of those ones where, >> you know, you >> I'm I'm not gonna moan. You know, you can pile a lot on me and say a lot to me, and I'm one of these people that will just brush it off and get on with it. You know, dust myself down, pick myself back up and and move on. Uh it did I did think to myself, I do want to be a bit more present when I'm not working with my family. And you know at that time as well 3 years ago I do remember you know constantly having the words from my husband like Emma okay you're home now put your phone down you know put your phone down cuz on the social media side of my work is that's another business alone let alone so I come home from a job and I'm you know either have my agent head on hustling for one of my girls to get you know pitch them a job or I'm doing trying to do social media or or you know um so I do try to be a little bit more okay Emma it's okay you can not respond for a few minutes like go and be with with the family >> so it did make me think that a little bit um and I guess also take stock of what I'd achieved to date >> like what I'd achieved um I don't ever pat myself on the back and I don't like I said a few times now I don't take compliments that well I mean that's the Brit in us you down the pub in the UK you just always get the piss taken out of you or whatever you know, people people, you know, you you you know, the more people that if they love you the most, they'll take the piss out of you the most. And so there it's that that whole so you know, but over in, you know, LA, everyone's very complimentary and very kind of, you know, or can be. Um, but at that moment, I was, >> you know, just taking stock of everything and actually being like, okay, you know, I am I'm I'm proud of what I've achieved to date. I still more that I want to do that I would love to do. uh but uh being aware of what you've accomplished and you know those like milestones and thinking back what the Emma would think 10 years you know 15 years ago or the Emma when she was you know 20 of what she'd got to and where she is >> in in life now >> and kind of taking stock of that. >> Okay. So let's think about I love I love doing this. Let's think about eight-year-old Emma. Can you see her? Can you put her in a in an outfit? What is she wearing? I can right now. >> Yeah. What is she wearing? >> Oh, she's literally got and I'm not like that now, but she's got a little handbag. She's got sunglasses. This is like Milo almost by by our three-year-old. Coco's not like it. Complete opposite. But Milo is, you know, six pairs of sunglasses wanting to dress herself. All changing all the time. I was like that as a kid. Very um yes, just very kind of neat and tidy with like little tiny like, you know, shoes with maybe a little bit of a heel so I could hear them click. I used to love that. I do remember. And then like a little outfit had to match. Um, always neat and tidy out of my siblings. Like I was the one that had everything laid out so my parents would know. They'd be like, "Emma, you're the one that's going to like do that sort of performing or something cuz you're just always like that." >> Um, yeah. Everything had to be perfect, like in my mind, neat and tidy. >> So, you have 8-year-old Emma with her clicketity heels. >> Clicky heels, little handbag. Her little handbag, >> sunglasses maybe. And she literally is in this room right now and she's standing right in front of you and she knows she gets to see you. >> Oh my god, you're going to make me cry. Oh my god. I would Oh my god. WHY AM I I'M GETTING EMOTIONAL? >> It's a very emotional thing. >> Um I would I would actually What would she say to you? >> OH MY GOD. Um Oh my god. Now everything within a flash has come over me with like going through that all that cancer stuff and then um and just the milestones that we've achieved as a family and um you know and then no one would be like well you know about having Milo cuz I was older, slightly older when I had Milo. Um, and then what I've done. Why am I emotional? >> It's very emotional. I've done it myself, too. >> Honestly, I'd probably be like, "You know what? You've done, you know, the girls done good." >> You know, you wanted to live that dream in in in America. And you've you've kind of you're doing it, you know, you're living it. >> Um, oh my god, people were like I anyone that knows me listening to this now will also be like, Emma crying. I don't cry. >> It's always girl, but that's another thing. I don't actually cry. Like I don't like and the times I ever do get emotional. >> I mean happy this is happy emotional, right? So this is different. But like I also am one of those people that's like you know slap yourself out of it because again I think there's so someone out there right now that's in a way worse position that would almost be like >> crying and like grabbing at their claws to be where you are, right? And so I think to myself there's no time. You don't just you can't be you can't get upset about anything. like you don't have the right to be upset about anything because how good is your life? You know what you're doing and you're living your dream. Um so yeah, crying I don't cry. I don't really allow my but nowadays I guess being a mom I do cry about happy emotional things or anything to do with like animals and and children and kids. I do cry now >> um >> a bit more. Um, but yeah, I guess yeah, I get and I could almost like see the A being like, "Oh yeah, check you out." Like being that girl as well being like, "Look at you." Um, but but honestly on the Yeah. Oh my god, that really kind of got to me. That's yeah I I I think I think you know again life is so fleeting and so short that we don't collectively everyone I think doesn't like take a moment to be like oh my god look what's around you and be I remember I I can't remember exactly how Gary Vee um right vin how he like worded it one time but he's like >> you know being content and happy with you know where you are right now is that's not being like complacent or being, you know, not still wanting more or striving for more, but just being and I forget how he worded it as such, but just being very aware of, you know, the right now and being happy with, >> you know, because so many people just, you know, will carry on in their relationships or personal relationships or their work life just not being happy. Yeah. >> Because they think they h they can't there's not an alternative. And there there always is. And and like I said about the money side, sometimes it could be that you have to take a step back from earning a certain amount, but God, if that's going to make you happy, >> we only get one life, you know, we get one life and it's so freaking fleeting and like you only have to turn on the news and even social media like to hear of all these awful things that happen and you know when family me you know I don't even want to go to think about it but to so to me it's that's why I have I think the energy and the hustle that I have because I just love living life with with my loved ones, my family members around me and and doing what I love with a passion and being able to do that like being able to um still have those opportunities and like the people that call me and you know and I'm so still grateful you know even like my my OGs they be like Emma why do you always say like you know thank of course we're going to call you and I'm like yeah but you never know cuz one day you might you know just >> um you're deeply deeply grateful. >> Yes. Like very >> it vibrates from you >> aware of, you know, of everything that >> to date that's happened and what I'm trying to, you know, build and still keep creating. Um but they're very uh yeah very very humbled, grateful and thankful for all of it and the journey you know because all of it is it's all about the journey and the memories you make and the people that you connect with and >> um >> you know and I think that is a big thing that can help people grow as well. You know the connecting and being true to yourself and your genuine you you know don't don't try and perform for anyone. Don't try to think that you have to be someone different or do things differently because you think that's going to, you know, impress someone. Like do you and if you do you 150% with passion and grit and grind and hustle, I think you everyone would be successful, you know, to a degree, you know. So it's >> Emma, I've loved this. Like you are the you've given business lessons, life lessons, gratitude lessons. Um truly it was it was so much fun. I've loved getting to chat. >> Oh my god, I've loved talking. I don't even know what I said really. Well, you'll go back and listen. You'll love it cuz I I like absolutely loved this conversation more than I could possibly tell you. >> Thank you. >> It's been This is my first podcast. It's like emotional like it's like it's very it's so it's so great. I'm so grateful that you came on and you shared >> but thank you for for >> asking me. >> Well, I had a great conversation with you in in the chair for a very long time so I knew it was going to be really good. Um, and also I just I love watching women build their dreams and you how you are online and your energy like that is if everyone can listen to this and pick up on the fact of your you're you're essentially bottling up and selling energy. And I think you don't even know you're selling it, but that's why everyone wants to be around you and in your atmosphere. And I do think for anyone who's like, "Oh, I'm not naturally like that." Like, you can learn it. like go back and listen to Emma's podcast three times because you can learn it. You can listen to how she thinks and you can listen to how she speaks. You can listen to her like pure enthusiasm on this podcast. So, I'm so grateful for you and I also want to make sure that people know how they can either number one get their makeup done by you, number two um potentially uh think about joining your company. So, where would he message you? >> Yeah, email or DM on on my social media. Um, I will sometimes it could be a delay in a few days or a week if I'm traveling, whatever. But I will I promise you I get back to actually now saying this, there's a couple of artists that's reached out to me recently and via email. Uh, but even DMs I will I scroll through and I man I try to, you know, get back to everyone. Um, email is better. Um, and the email is in my in my on my Instagram. >> Perfect. What I'm going to do is I'm going to put that you guys in the show notes below. So all you have to do is go click down. I'll put all of your info in there. I'll put your Instagram in there. I'll put your email in there. So, they just have to scroll down and they can see all of it right there. >> Thank you so much for coming. >> Thank you. Thank you. And um uh I'm also very excited to finally try your GlowC. >> It's going to be great. >> Like honestly, I've been ser there's a story behind it, guys. If you get any you tag this on to the end or whatever, but I've been Yes. It's it's meant to be and I hope Yeah. She's going to let me know. >> Yes. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. >> You always get nervous. It's probably like before you reveal makeup to someone sometimes. I'm always like, well, I hope she likes it. I don't know. >> I can just I can just tell I am going to. And there's a PR box that Lorie sent me that got lo This is another story, but it got lost. And I Yeah. So now that's why it's come full circle. >> If it makes you feel better, I forgot I sent it to you. So >> Okay, there you there you go. There you go. That's great. I love that. That makes me feel better. That actually makes me feel better. But but honestly, I actually do I know I'm going to because it feels like a full circle moment that like then you've even you know reached out about doing this the whole podcast in general and that's why I felt like it was so organic and so right to to for you to be my first podcast like >> well I hope this was great practice now I hope I see you on podcast all the time and >> if people ask me to who knows what was the name of of your podcast what was the chat >> oh what was we saying well actually I know there's well there's a little thing that where I'm going to be doing with Coco but we see well more of YouTube, but like coffee and glow with Emma and Coco. Okay. As a little like, you know, coffee and glow with Emma and like a little like a jingle with Emma and Coco and then maybe Milo with a little like tambourine like tick at the end. >> I've already started to think about that, but that potentially we could be a YouTube. I'm not sure yet, but we need some we need some little microphones and end caps for you. It's going to be great. >> Well, thank you again for coming on. Oh my god. Thank you so much, Lori. Thank you so much. Um, I'm going to remember this today. It's like, you know, >> same with the little ones. >> With the dogs. With the dogs. >> With the little ones and not so little. >> Yes. >> All right, you guys. I'm so grateful for you. Thank you so much for tuning in. And make sure you go and check everything out below. And until next time, earn your happy. Bye, everyone.