This episode of Earn Your Happy is sponsored in part by Shopify, Open Phone, and Northwest registered agent. Turn your big business idea into cha-ching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. See why over 60,000 businesses trust Open Phone. Open is offering my listeners 20% off of your first six months at openphone.com/earn. Don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/earn. Reality doesn't shift for people who need proof. It shifts for the people who go first in belief, in vision, and in energy. So, you have to ask yourself if you're living by default, or are you living by design? Are you a creator or are you reacting to life? Hey everyone, welcome back to the podcast. It's time for another quickie because there's always time to fit in inspiration and I know that you could be choosing any podcast in the world to listen to right now or doing anything in the world right now. So, I'm so grateful for you. I'm in a place right now in my life where I am just beyond grateful for everything that I get to do. And don't get me wrong, if you're like, I'm not feeling that right now. It took me a little while to get here. And I also know that we go up and down in life. We have seasons. Life is cyclical. So, I'm just really in a sweet spot right now. And I'm so grateful for that. And also, I always want to remind you guys of my 25% off code just for you for being the most epic podcast listeners of all time. I'm going to give you a 25% off code for Glossy, which if you don't know what it is, it's a skin routine that you can drink. It's skin and gut. And I promise you, you are going to feel so good on it. You can feel lighter. You can hydrate deeper. And who doesn't want to glow daily? So, you guys go check it out. You can go to get glossy.com and get 25% off with code happy. And summer is here. And if you want to feel great, if you want to be hydrating, kick your old hydration sticks out of bed. Get rid of them because this is such an upgrade. It's not even funny. Like why are you spending that money on expensive salt and sugar? I stand by Glossy and these the incredible ingredients that are in it. So go and check it out. All right. So, I am in full like working on my thoughts manifestation. Let's level the up mode. If you're with me, give me a hell yes. Okay. Thank you so much. You're my people. And I want to share all of the things that I'm doing in this season right now. And I'm going to be sharing them through this podcast, per usual. So, if you guys have been listening to what I'm talking about lately, you're probably getting the vibe that I personally am leveling up in my business and in my life. So, I might be a little bit more fiery than usual. And I love that. I love when we catch those waves of just feeling like this energetic buzz all around us because we are leveling up and it feels exciting and sometimes it feels hard, but it feels hopeful and you're getting more clarity with every single day. So, if you're in that same position as me right now where you're like, "Okay, I am leveling up and thank God I'm starting to see what that looks like." Because I was in leveling up position, but more in the lessons of leveling up, if you know what I mean. So, you're like, "Hm, this really doesn't feel fun at all. It feels like every day is hard, and it feels like I'm literally stretching into the splits, but like am not flexible, you know? Everything hurts every single day and I'm tired and I'm over it. Like I just want some wins now. I feel like I'm excited and the stretching feels good and I'm starting to see a little bit of the winds or feel them and I just want to be sharing that with you guys. So I got some book recommendations from someone who is just leveled up right now like in their life. They are doing the work. And I was talking about the fact that I still had some doubts around, you know, some things that I really want to happen with my company and I'm like, I'm just feeling like I'm not matching like the vibration of it or the frequency or the belief system or my confidence level is like not yet matching the person that I know that I need to be. Like I used to be able to feel like I could match things a lot faster. But we have to remember that the the more we grow, the more we choose these bigger goals that are going to grow us. So, it might take a little longer, it may not. And I don't even want to put longer into your head because I'm really in that place of wanting to just focus on all of the beliefs that are going to get me there, not the ones that are holding me back. So, I've been listening to Ask and It's Given again. It's probably the third time through the book within the last like probably 8 to 10 years. And I always forget how good it is. And it's because you don't need it for every single season of your life. Although maybe I should, but it's like it comes back to me and I revisit it right in these moments where I'm like, "What do I need? What do I need? What do I need?" Oh, okay. Let's go back to something that I know kind of always like hones me right into where I want to go. So, Ask and It's Given is the book that I'm listening to right now. I'm actually also reading another book that was a suggestion called The World is Your Mirror. And that one is really good, too. It's a super fast read and I just wanted to share some of the thoughts from my walk that I wrote down to talk about on the podcast today while I was listening to the audio book Ask and it's given. So talking to you about the beliefs that you have in your head right now and really understanding that your reality is just a thought that you've repeated and trying to figure out if you are truly the creator or just the observer of the things going on in the world. So, every single belief that you have started as a gentle little thought. It was probably just this thing that popped into your head or something that you saw in your household, in your family, at school, whatever it was, and it was like, "Oh, that's how that works." Or, "Oh, this is what they think of me." Or, "Oh, this is how I should look at myself because this is how they look at me or think of me." And the thought wasn't powerful and it wasn't absolute. It was literally just consistent after that. I want you to think of a time where you got a thought and it wasn't something that maybe you felt before, but you just started thinking it more and more and more. And maybe it was after someone said something to you. And maybe it was after you started your business and someone really said something that rocked your world and you just started really thinking about it and you were just consistent with that thought. And all of a sudden, consistency is what gave that that thought power and that is what turned it into a belief. So if you want to shift your life, you don't have to fight your beliefs. You just have to introduce a better thought and choose to focus on it more often and choose to give it the consistency that you give the negative spirals. And that is how you create a belief. But that is also how you get to erase an old belief. So your beliefs are built and they are not born. So for every limiting belief you have, it didn't come from a truth. And that's the first awareness that we have to have. The beliefs that you have did not come from truth. They came from repetition. They came from perceived beliefs of others and repetition of others of those beliefs that maybe they perceived from their life and their parents. It was a choice that you kept thinking it, you kept feeling it, you kept seeing it and that hardened into a truth in your life. So just right now I want you to think of some times that you can actually say, "Wow, something that felt like a truth in my past was born in the same exact way." Because I you first need to know that your brain is not being truthful with you. Your brain is being consistent with what it thinks will keep you safe. So the good news is is that you can build new ones the exact same way as you get rid of the old ones. So, if you want to thought swap, instead of I never follow through, this was mine. I've shared this before on the podcast. My old past belief, this was a firm belief about myself was I never finish anything. I never follow through. So, instead, I had to say things like, I finish everything. I finish everything. And it seemed really far off, but maybe I could have said, I'm building evidence every day that I'm consistent. And I've shared the story about what I did to prove to myself that I could finish one thing. I was like, screw this. What's one hard thing that I could do right now? I've never even ran more than a mile in my life. And I think that was for sixth grade gym class. And I thought I was going to die. Like I absolutely hated my gym teacher. I was like, what sort of torture is this that they're putting all of these children through? Like I should be able to like get these people convicted. I'm not sure. But that's how passionately I felt about not running the mile in gym class in sixth grade. And so when I was in my 20s and I still never completed anything. I didn't graduate high school. I started projects that I would never finish. I started, you know, courses I would never finish. It was like out of control the amount of things that I never completed and never finished. And so that's where I never finish anything comes from. And I was like, that's it. I'm gonna go run three miles and I'm not going to stop until it's completed. And you guys, for someone who's never, you know, ran, who the last time they ran was one mile in sixth grade and then makes jokes about the only time I'm going to run as if someone's chasing me for my life. Like, this is a big deal. And I was like, you are not going to stop. You just have to prove this one thing to yourself and from this one thing, you're going to know that you can do other things. And so, I ran super slow, but during the run, during the run, this is the key. This is the key. I need you to get this. During the run, I said, I'm not going to think of one other thing. And for the whole threemile run, I'm literally only going to allow myself to say, I finish everything. I said I finish everything for the length of that entire run, which probably took me 45 to 50 minutes for three miles, which means I was going pretty darn slow. And I only said I finish everything. And so when I wanted to quit, I didn't even think of quitting because I was so consistent with I finish everything with each step. I turned it into like the motion of the run. And guess what happened? I finished that run for the first time in my life. And I came home and I literally cried because I had never finished anything. And it was the first time I allowed my brain only to think that I was finishing by inserting the mantra and being consistent with it. So if you look at exactly how thoughts are actually built, right? Your beliefs are built. They're not born that way. They're built by consistently telling yourself, "I don't finish anything." So, when I decided to flip it, it was like my whole life changed after that. Because I truly proved to myself that I was able to create enough repetition in my brain, even on a three-mile run, that made me finish the run. I had tried to complete runs before that, more than I could possibly tell you, and I had never done it up until that point. So consistency of the thought is what is going to actually create that belief and becoming like the observer of the thoughts and seeing how often you're actually repeating to yourself the belief that you don't want but having an instant like mantra to back it up. So you guys got to work on what are you going to say in place of that thought. If you don't have a default response in place of the thought, you're going to keep thinking the thought that's been accessible and easy and a belief your entire life. So the number two point I want to make is to have you ask yourself, are you an observer or a creator? So this is of just the energy and reality that you see all around you. So observers become what they see, right? So, if I'm looking on social media and I think things are bad and I'm kind of like looking for certain things in the world that match my current beliefs about the world, observers become what they see. And creators see what they want to become. So, most people stay stuck because they're waiting for their environment to shift their energy. But creators flip it and they shift their energy first and then watch their environment reflect that back. Now, I talk a lot about the fact that your environment is stronger than your willpower. And I believe that you should work really hard to try to change any environment that you're in simultaneous simultaneous to changing your energy as well. But when I was out on my walk today, it's like I kind of woke up a little bit tired and I was like, "Okay, it'd be really easy for me to just kind of think of my to-do list and what's not going right in my business and what's missing and what I don't have and, you know, all of these things that I'm constantly feeling overwhelmed by." Or I can go on this walk and shift my entire energy and think of what I do have and start getting into the feeling of what I want, what I know the things that I want are like into that vibrational match. This takes so much work, focus, and discipline, but it's the only path to creating exactly what you want. So my point three is that reality bends to the one who feels first. Meaning your external world is a lagging indicator of your internal focus. And you can't wait to see something different. You actually have to feel something different first because reality doesn't shift for people who need proof. It shifts for the people who go first in belief in vision and in energy. So you have to ask yourself if you're living by default or are you living by design? Are you a creator of the feeling and of the vibration in your body so that everything around you starts to become attracted to you and you start to get in the vibration of the thing? Or are you reacting to life and life is reacting to you because of the vibration that you're putting out? Because all it takes is one new thought and a decision to be consistent with that thought in order to make it a belief. I'm so excited to share this. You guys know I never shy away from big scary leaps, those super messy what the heck am I doing moments. And this is Small Business just kicked off a new season and it's all about risk. You know, I'm obsessed with this topic because that's what it takes. The host Andrea Marquez takes us behind the scenes with fearless founders who turn their maybe later ideas into heck yes, let's go adventures. These episodes have it all. They have raw stories of grit, honest advice, and so much inspiration. I got full body goosebumps listening. I was nodding along thinking, "This is exactly the kind of fuel we all need when chasing our big dreams." So, if you need that extra push to go after your own hell yes vision, you have to check this out. Go follow this is Small Business on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you listen, I can't wait for you to hear it. When I first started Glossy, I was so overwhelmed. I felt like I had to do everything on my own because you do. And your to-do list just keeps mounting. But let me tell you, when you're starting off with something new, it just seems like that list is growing and growing and growing. And it can quickly overrun your life. So, you have to start learning to find the right tools that can not only help you out, but simplify everything. And that is a gamecher. And let me tell you, for millions of businesses, that tool is Shopify. And I am included in those numbers. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started and I'm going to add mine to the list, Gloy. Get started with your own design studio with hundreds of readytouse templates. Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. And you guys, I love my website so much that's on Shopify. Go and check it out. Also, Shopify is your e-commerce expert with world-class expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into chachching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy. Shopify.com/happy. So you guys, the world is going to shift for the people who have the vibration of belief, who have the vibration of their vision, and who stay in that higher energy and believe that things are good and that you can be a magnet and that things can go your way. You have to really start to visualize what it would feel like every day if your business was going exactly as you wanted it. You have to carry an expectation of the outcome that you want. So when you're sending the email, instead of feeling afraid, you have to picture the email that you want coming back. You have to picture the email landing in a way for that person that's only positive, not negative. You have to picture them not misinterpreting it, but interpreting it exactly how you want it. And every time those fear thoughts come up, you have to get into the energy of the expectation that it's going to be great and it's going to turn out great. You have to expect positive intent. You have to expect positive outcomes. You have to expect miracles. And that's why they always say the charm, expect miracles, you guys, because that energy of expectation of it's going to come back exactly how you want is going to turn you into a magnet. It's going to turn your life into a magnet, and you're going to make different decisions from that place. So, even if you're like, "This is a bunch of shit," which you're totally free to think that, you're still going to make better decisions and be in a better energy, which will, you can't argue it, will attract better people if you're in a positive energy and a belief that you can make it happen. Because the most certain person in the room wins. Certainty always wins. That's what Tony Robbins says. If you're the most certain person in the room, you're going to get exactly what you desire. So, how can you shift into being the most certain person in the room? It doesn't mean that you're fake or cocky or have an attitude. It means that you are so certain that you're eventually going to get there that you don't even have to worry, right? Be so certain of the outcome that anxiety is literally no longer a thing for you because you just know it's coming and that this is the process. So, I'm sending you so much love. I know we're all all in this journey together. I'm going to continue on this podcast. preaching about all of the different things that are working for me. So, I just am grateful that I have a place to be able to share it because when I get to share and teach, it also helps me really, really embody it. So, you guys, thanks for being on this journey with me and until next time, earn your happy. Bye everyone.