Hey everybody. Today we're going to talk about mindless eating. And I know that so many people struggle with this because this was probably and still can be one of one of the biggest things that I struggle with. So whether it's because you are bored, because you're stressed out, because you're tired, there's so many reasons that we end up doing this, but I know so many people can relate to the fact that you you set a health goal, you do great all day long, you eat super healthy, then you come home, maybe you're too hungry, like I said, maybe you're stressed out or tired, and then your whole night just goes to crap because you sit and snack all night. So, what are some things that we can do to make sure that we're not sitting around all night and wasting our workouts or what we did all day long? Because we really want to keep those goals in the forefront of our mind. So, when we sit and think about it, there's usually three reasons that we do this. And it's either because you are dehydrated, bored, or stressed. Sometimes it's because you're too tired as well, but we're going to go over these main topics. So most of the time when people find that they're really hungry throughout the day or you know you're finding that you're just insatiable at night, it's because you're not drinking enough water throughout the day. So my number one tip before you do your mindless eating is to try to drink some water. I usually just pour myself a massive glass of water if I'm just feeling like I'm going to go into crazy town and just start plowing through some food in my cabinet at night. I know you can relate to me where you just stand there and you stare at everything and you feel like you can just rip through everything. So, what I want you to do is go pour yourself a big glass of water and just sit and think about what you're doing. Just take five minutes and sit and drink a ton of water and see how you feel. So, number two, if you're stressed out, we have to find a new way of coping instead of just going to eat that food. Because what I want you to do is in the grand scheme, I want you to think about what would happen if you did sit there and eat all night long. It typically leads to even more stress. It leads to um restless sleep. It leads to feeling so much guilt throughout the next day. So, a lot of times, you know, when you're thinking about doing it, I love the quote, when in doubt, play it out. Because you need to play it out all the way through to the end to really see what's going to be happening. But when you're stressed out, we have to find a new coping mechanism. So, I'm going to give you two different things that you can do. So, for those of you who feel like you can be really active in that moment, because we want to release some serotonin, we want to release some dopamine. What I want you to do is take two minutes, either turn on your favorite music, turn on your favorite jam, and just dance around your apartment for two minutes, or you can do do two minutes of jumping jacks. All that's going to do is just really change your mood, change your surroundings, release that dopamine, release that serotonin, put yourself in a different mind frame. For those of you who are even too tired for that after work, I have something that I want you to do. So, before you start eating, I promise you, if you still feel terrible afterward, can go ahead and go have a snack. Even though we know that's not what's going to solve the problem, but what I want you to just start trying to do is making sure you have these tools ready. So, I want you to go and lay on your yoga mat or lay on your carpet or lay on your couch and just lay completely flat and close your eyes. Have your palms up. I want you to set a timer for five minutes and I want you to envision yourself at your goals. I want you to really sit and think through what you really want because a lot of times we just stray so far from our goals that instant gratification is the only thing that we think that will make us happy. So bringing us back to that place of remembering what we really want can really help shift that transition. So number three, if you're bored, this is basically what we do every single night. We come home, we're so programmed, turn on the TV, whatever you watch, Housewives, whatever kind of TV it is, it's just basically, you know, numbing you out because you're stressed out. But what we want to do is just make sure that you're not sitting around all night because the mindless eating happens. You're not doing anything with your hands. So, what I typically do is I'll either set a timer for 20 minutes and just power clean my house. I'll read a book. Like I said, I'll turn on some music and dance around. Um, you know, Kelly, my assistant, loves to organize things. So, she says she organizes her closets because you're just you're not thinking about anything else. You're just focused on that certain task. So, just make sure that you go and do something because the mindless eating is what's throwing us off. It's what's making us more stressed out. It's what is making us feel worse. So, I want you guys to take these tools and just keep them in your back pocket. Write them out. Put them on your fridge. Even better, put them up on your fridge so that before you go and do it, you can remember that you have a few tools. And let me tell you, it's not going to be perfect. But even if you do this one out of every three times, you're going to make a massive, massive dent. And you're really going to start shifting. And remember, it's always tough in the beginning. And you just have to keep this in practice. This is why we call it a practice. It's taken me years, but the more that you use those tools, the closer you're going to get to your goals. So, I hope that you love these. And please let me know what you think of them. Uh for more, go to the website busyiggirl.tv. But I love to hear your comments. I love to hear your feedback. Let me know if these tools work for you. Bye-bye. I hope you enjoyed this episode of Earn Your Happy. And for more episodes, you can go to busygirl.tv. And me and Waffles are going to go earn our happy now. Right, Waffles? High five. Yeah.