 it doesn't matter who you think you are, this is going to be a little controversial, but if people aren't seeing you that way, it's really important for you to open your eyes and realize, why aren't they? Like, I think that I'm so nice, but clearly there is a disconnect in how I'm presenting, so maybe I should clean that up. Mike, drop, I want to make sure people really caught that. People think, well, I know who I am, and that's all that matters. Nope, in the real effing world, what matters if you want to get somewhere is how people perceive you. We get these messages all the time from people who are like, both of you are so loving, even though we have different beliefs than you, and we always are saying, choose love over hate. Someone can totally hate us for what we stand for, but we're still going to choose to love them. And I would say the two of you will be so successful because people want a great business, they want to make a ton of money, and they forget that we're all human at the core. Julie, welcome back on the show. We have you on the Earn Your Happy Podcast and the Chris Harder Show. I'm excited we get to interview you together again. It's almost like you've become our resident psychedelic expert of this play. It's been six months since you've been on the show, and it's like, oh, let's check in and see what psychedelics could do for us six months later now. No, but all joking aside, in the past six months, I know you've been working really hard on your business because you're not just a psychedelic expert, but you're an entrepreneur. So kind of paint the picture for us. In the past six months, what's changed in your business? What are some wins? What's given you some momentum? Kind of get us up to speed. What's changed is that I'm having more open and honest conversations. I feel because you two were able to facilitate a very open and desigmatizing conversation around psychedelics. So people who may have been curious or were hearing it for the first time weren't scared. They weren't freaked out. They were really open to what it could do. They were open to what it could do for them. Interesting. And I really enjoy getting to speak to all those people in the DMs and having them sign up for programs. And it just makes my heart so happy because truly my intention in being here and speaking with you guys is to bring the power of microdosing to a million people. So wait, this is really cool. I want to expand what you just said. Without giving away a DM or something, obviously, you said you've been having way more open conversations. Give us an example. Oh, the one that comes to mind is a woman reached out to me on behalf of her husband who is actually a physician, an ER physician. And he was looking for a way to manage his ADHD sometimes in a different way because for many people who are on Adderall, they know that that can lead to anger. It can lead to dipping lower than you felt in kind of the half-life off period. It can make you snappy. And honestly, for a lot of people, it can become a bit of a crutch and he wanted to be able to get off of that. And so that was a conversation where I thought, this is a man who's out there saving lives. Let's help him in a way that is clean, clear, sustainable, and a true solution to ADHD versus just management. And is it working for him? Yes. See, this is why we want to have these conversations. I would have never known that as a solution to Adderall, that a doctor would come and say, hey, I need a solution. I don't like what Adderall does. Let me try this and that it's working. And these are the kind of conversations, I think, that make people like me that know very little about this say, maybe there's something here. So something that I have observed about you because you've now been to our house twice for VIP weekends and we get to spend two days at a time with you, which is so much fun. And then I get to go see what changes kind of in your life and in your business. And it's so crazy because I already feel such a difference in you and your presence and how you show up and on social as well, which I'm so excited about. And things take time. Like things take time to integrate and move through like what you learned. And something that I really observed about you the first couple of days that I got to work with you is your ability to not only integrate feedback, but you would ask for it. And you ask for it in a really open way. That's also, you seem happy. I know that that's like a, I know that that is like a part of your personality is very, very bubbly and very happy, but at the same time, I know that it's not easy sometimes to get feedback. And we gave you some very real, honest feedback at the last weekend of maybe how you could be perceived or ways to up level what you're doing. Cause you really want to start attracting that up leveled client for yourself. So can you kind of tell me, because I think that that's a superpower. Could you tell me about how you do that? Has that been something that you work on? Or is that something that's just been a part of you? How do you go in there and ask, like you would ask us straightforward for the feedback. And in all honesty, I used to avoid that. People should have this muscle. Most don't, but you do. Well, I did used to be an attorney and no one is sparing your feelings in that profession. But also I truly believe and know that feedback is neutral. It doesn't mean anything about who I am. I know that I'm worthy and enough regardless of what anyone has to say, good, bad, or otherwise about my business, right? I think it's really important for entrepreneurs to know that you are over here, your business is over here, you are not the same thing. And ultimately you're never going to grow. And I'm also extremely careful about who I ask for feedback because I would obviously ask you guys, you guys have a lot of the things that I would like to achieve in my life, but I'm not going to listen to Sandra, no offense to me, Sandra's out there on Instagram who aren't doing what I want to do because their two cents is not going to get me where I want to go. So how did you learn that? Is that something that you just grew up with or is this something you really had to think about? Okay, true story. I did this personal development program when I sort of had one foot out and one foot out of the law and then I was getting into coaching. This was pre-psychedelic facilitation. And it was an interesting program where they literally got in a circle around you and said things like, scare little girl. And it was very, it was interesting. It was a little culty. Oh, I've done stuff like this, yeah. I've definitely done this. But I was like, these are just words that says how people are perceiving me. And at the end of the day, it doesn't matter who you think you are. This is going to be a little controversial. But if people aren't seeing you that way, it's really important for you to open your eyes and realize why aren't they? Like I think that I'm so nice, but clearly there is a disconnect in how I'm presenting. So maybe I should clean that up. Mic drop. I want to make sure people really caught that. And you're right. This could rub people the wrong way, but people think, well, I know who I am. And that's all that matters. Nope. In the real effing world, what matters if you want to get somewhere is how people perceive you. And you play a role in looking in the mirror and saying, okay, if I want people to perceive me a certain way and they're not, where's my responsibility in that? I mean, Julie, you just called out like one of the biggest things I feel like like if they want to grow in a massive way, and I think this is like how you walk into every room, if they want to grow in a massive way, it really is, I was just thinking of this for an exercise Chris. I was like, oh my God, it takes like so much courage to even implement an exercise like that, where it's like, here's what I think of me, but I want to know from everyone in this group, like how do you perceive me? Because there's obviously something happening or how you're showing up. And you can decide if that's a good or bad thing. Like the data is just data, kind of like what you said. So for the feedback is, you know, the feedback is huge. You can take it and either integrate it because it was someone who cared about you, who was giving it. What about the data that you get that doesn't, you're like, that doesn't feel like a fit for me, even if it's from like a mentor that you feel is important, but you're like deciding how you want to take it. I have a rule of three for feedback. So if I hear something three times, then it's really important for me to sit and sit with it and assess whether, you know, this is perhaps true and how I'm showing up at least, even if it's not how I'm perceiving myself, you know, but Chris, the best thing I love about Chris is that he will throw these ideas that sometimes feel like a little bit bonkers. Oh, bonkers. Bonkers. It's a joke's name. And I'm thinking, I have never even dreamt or conceived of that, but I take everything that Chris says and I sit with it and I try it on. And I think, is this what I want for myself? Because I appreciate the idea we have to be living in the realm of infinite possibilities at all times, but I don't need to go implement everything. I think that shiny object syndrome and you get derailed from really your zone of genius. Yeah. So you being able to discern, is this big idea for me or not, is a real superpower to be able to do that? Have you found in the past that you chased anyone's shiny idea and you had to learn that or have you always had this discernment? The first year of my business, I cannot tell you how many iterations of coaching and like me she down I went through. And it's so funny when I got into psychedelics, I didn't want to do this as a business. I was doing it for myself to heal my anxiety and depression, but people just continually kept asking me, like, what are you doing? Can you help me? And it felt like the universe was sort of like slapping me around, hello lady, this is what you're meant to be doing. And I had such a passion and drive for reading, researching, taking classes, learning more about it that I thought, well, I'm already spending so much time doing this. I'm good at it, clearly I healed my own anxiety and depression, so like, let's go. That's amazing. So you just mentioned, you've been using micro dosing for you and for your clients to heal anxiety and depression. But lately you've made a shift into using it to target high performers and helping them lead a more limitless life. So these are like two opposite ends of the spectrum. Tell us about that shift and how it can do both of those things at the same time. So this really came about as a result of looking at all of my journals for the past five years. I'm a huge journaler and I have them all. And so in the beginning, it was, wow, my mind was not a fun place to be. It was really, it was so hard to get control of my thoughts and I was really spun out by my anxiety depression. It was extremely overwhelming. And I've been looking at my journals more recently as I integrate my micro dosing protocols and larger journeys. When I have facilitators, take me through larger journeys because I'm very big on facilitating and being facilitated for them. And my outcomes and what I'm focusing on are just completely different. Now at the end, I'm thinking about, okay, what does it look like to truly dream big, no guardrails, live in the land of infinite potentials, to learn to hold greater levels of joy, abundance, all that big leap stuff. And it just came about naturally as a result of continuing to work with this. And I realized, and Chris, that's what is for you. I came up with this analogy that micro dosing just for your mental health is like buying a Ferrari and only driving to the grocery store. You need to take that thing out on the track and see where it can go. That's amazing analogy. I freaking love that. Expand on that a little bit more for us. So what do you mean? We're like, okay, you've got this Ferrari, AKA micro dosing, except you're kind of just taking it to the grocery store and back. And it was built for something more. Tell us about that. The human brain is a supercomputer. Unfortunately for many people, our operating system, our default operating system lands us into OCD, anxiety, depression, sometimes addiction. And so getting, healing the root cause of those things, it's just like a baseline. It's like, oh, okay, now I can have an average normal good existence. Who wants to wait for good? Who wants to sit in good? Like let's get to great. I truly believe this life is limitless. I believe we were all creators of our reality. And our reality can look however we wanted to. I mean, Laura, you say it all the time, like this is not where you saw yourself from your childhood. It's like you didn't let anything stop you. You weren't subscribed to these manuals and these paradigms. You busted them and dream bigger for yourself. And here you are. Everyone can do that. That's amazing. I just want to stand at the top of it for one more minute, high performers. Can you give an example of how a high performer used this to go from good to great? To really unlock that ceiling that they knew they had to bust through? One of my favorite examples is a structural engineer I worked with. She actually just sent me a message and she said, I have everything I wanted a year ago. I just realized that after a micro dose this morning and I really allowed myself to sit in that feeling. You know, so many people are doing well, right? Like they have the career, they have the accolades, but there is an inner peace missing where they probably doesn't feel as good as they thought it was going to feel because they're getting there with burnout, with exhaustion, with pushing themselves their limits. And there are sneaky little ways that they are out of integrity with their values and with what they say they want because I think for high performers they probably have cleaned up the bigger things, right? Like whether it be partying or scrolling or, I don't actually want to say scroll. I think a lot of people scroll. I still scroll. But when we really clean it up and we really commit to living in our zone of excellence and that's what's so cool about psychedelics is it helps turn off the parts of your brain that chatter and it helps you make new habits more easily. And so then you really can live in that zone of excellence because you're not overwhelmed and feel like you're beholden to these things that you know aren't serving you. That's so cool. Okay, so you created Living Limitless as more than just a program. So it's like a high impact community for women who are already playing big but are ready to break through their upper limits which I can totally relate to. I feel like no matter how big I start playing there's always something more that I'm bumping up against. So what does it look like to be a part of that space where no one can play small and you can't hide? And how does that level of accountability and expansion transform someone's life? You know, I was just talking to someone in MCM who's joining and we were having a conversation and through that conversation I realized, oh, this is an incubator. This is like the place where you go where you don't wanna hide, right? It is only 10 women so it is very much a space where I know what you're doing, I know what you said you were going to do. There's check-ins, there's just a different level of being seen because it's also not like, oh, I said this to just one person, like I said this to a room of other women where their feedback matters to me and that's a big piece too, right? Like coming back to this feedback, like all of these women are up to big things and it's not ever from a place of I need to impress someone, but it's about I wanna be in the room, I wanna be having the conversation, I want to, at the end of the day, I wanna do it for myself to put my head on the pillow and think I made the most out of this life, this day that I have and I really wanna get to the end and think no regrets. Yeah, same, I feel that. Okay, I wanna know about your retreats because I know that it's one of your favorite things that you get to do. First of all, why is it one of your favorite things? What do you believe about retreats that are so impactful? Ooh, they're one of my favorite things because in person it's just different, right? I believe that, I signed up for this again. We swear by it, like in person, just it accelerates everything you do. And it is, it's so much more accelerated transformation than any online coaching could possibly be simply because it's a weekend of constant experience, reflection, growth, breakdown, breakthrough. I like them because I keep them small, five to six women for each retreat. And I honestly feel that is my top zone of excellence. Like when I enter the retreat space, I feel like some kind of switch gets flipped in me and that is what I was meant to do. And I, it can be a lot of people are like, how can you go and facilitate these larger journeys? Cause it isn't micro, right? It isn't like 100 milligrams. It is two grams and above. How can you hold someone's experience during that, let alone, you know, six other women. And it is, I feel it as a gift. It is something that I don't think everyone can do, but I know that I can. And like holding that for someone and seeing them have the process and the transformation, it's just, I'm the most grateful for that. If that sounds intimidating, but interesting to somebody, walk them through like why they shouldn't be intimidated about a full immersion like that. So there's something in this psychedelic world called set and setting. So when you control for set and setting, the environment you're in and the mindset you're in, when you enter the experience, your possibility of having a bad trip is almost negligible. So everything that I do to set up their tree is extremely intentional from, you know, the space itself to how I speak, what I say. It has a lot of NLP infused in it, not from a space of like manipulation, but just from wanting someone to feel comfortable in creating safety in their subconscious mind to let go. Ultimately a bad trip is a result of someone not letting go. So when someone, you know, says, always saw something really scary and I tried to run away from it or there was a door I wouldn't open, that is when you reach a lot of discomfort and ultimately just like in life, the only way out is through. So true in a trip, it's a great mirror for our experience in life, but as long as they can continue to lean in to whatever comes, they will get to the other side of it and have the most amazing breakthrough. That is wild. It's definitely something I'm so curious about and also equally like intimidated by. You know, and I'm guessing there's probably a lot of people listening that kind of feel the same way. Yeah, I think, you know, different things that I've heard from people are, I almost don't wanna do it because I don't wanna know what's there. So, and I've heard that quite a bit actually from different people. So I'm wondering for someone like that, who's like, am I just opening something up that doesn't need to be open? Is there ways to go into something where it's more intentional? Like you're going in with an intention of wanting to just solve one thing, but maybe, you know, is there avoiding or is it like it's just gonna... Yeah, everything's gonna come out, period. Well, I love you said intention, intention and integration are my two favorite words. It's always important to have an intention. And I do say in a journey, you are always gonna get exactly what you need, even if it's not exactly what you want. I was actually just having this conversation with a friend who thinks like maybe his marriage is over and he said he's been avoiding doing something like this because he didn't want to like be faced with that. So ultimately, if you're not ready to look at something, I would say this probably isn't for you, but I remember one of the women who came to my very first retreat and had a lot of... She had a very sad childhood. And in that experience, she was able to go like protect herself essentially against what had happened to her as a child. And it was very healing and very like closing of the loop essentially. So what I also like to say about a journey is, it's ultimately like four to six hours. If you can just let go for four to six hours, face the thing that you have been avoiding for years, for decades. It's always like, I like to execute and just do the thing because the discomfort you're creating from not just going for it is ultimately so much larger than whenever discomfort you're gonna feel from facing it and doing it. That isn't like the metaphor for life period. Yeah, absolutely. That you create more discomfort by dragging something out and kind of barely living in it, as opposed to just facing it and walking right through it. Ultimately, I do feel like everything in psychedelics is such a metaphor for life, right? Whether it be don't avoid the discomfort, the only way out is through have an intention. If everyone in this, listening to this podcast, took away nothing but that and just implemented, I'm going to have an intention before I eat my lunch to nourish myself and to notice when I feel full and respect that if I'm going to this conversation with my mom to just show her love and understanding, even if we have a tough relationship, like if you just infuse intention in every part of your day, your life will change. I love that. Oh, it's so good. I've loved all of these wisdom nuggets that you dropped as well on top of that, which just makes me really think, you know, I've never done a journey with you, but I feel like I can feel how you are in just like the love that you put into it. So I'm grateful for you. Thank you. Well, listen, if someone's curious, how should they reach out, whether it's on the microdosing side or whether it's coming to one of your retreats? Well, if you want to just know whether microdosing is a great path for you, that's super simple. Find me on Instagram. I know that it's linked down in the show notes and you can just DM me the word journey. You can take a quick quiz, less than a minute and find out very honestly whether it is for you because there are some people where I will not work with them, not because I don't love them, but because it's just not the right fit for a variety of reasons. And you can find the pin post on my Instagram page as well with all of my upcoming retreats through 2026. And I know some show notes about share your Instagram. Oh yes, Julie Savon, J-U-L-I-E-C-Y-V-O-N-N-E. I love it. All right, any last closing words, any last piece of advice for someone who's like on the fence about this? I believe that if you have a poll toward plant medicine, there is a reason. I always say that you don't decide to do it, it calls to you. I firmly believe that's a little bit of one of my woo things, but if this has been something on your heart, I think it's for a reason and at least have a conversation, if not with me, research it on your own. I love that, super cool. Well, I appreciate you always popping in and sharing your wisdom on this. The story about the doctor in the beginning, all of this stuff, the conversation continues to make it more approachable so that people aren't missing out on something that might really, really help their life or free them or finally get them to their goals. And it's really cool that you're willing to sit down with people and talk about it. Well, thank you so much for having me, guys. This is amazing. Yes, and we've linked everything up in the show notes, you guys, so all you have to do is scroll down and you can get all of our info there as well, but go follow her and thank you so much for coming on. Thank you guys. You're the best. Are you ready to take your business marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and Sierra on platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement, and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place, nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS, and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times, and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations, and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months for an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Aura. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss, you've become the leader, that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify, 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made this leap from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand, set up as fast with Shopify's built-in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built in too. You can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard. In 2026, stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first, judging this new year with Shopify by your side. I talk about the importance of sleep and reaching your goals all the time on this podcast but I also know that you're probably wound pretty tight like I am and you might have trouble transitioning from your daytime to your nighttime. So I added something that I absolutely love because you know, skincare is a big thing for me in 2026 and I love Osea's Dream Collection. It's really helped change that for me. Osea's Dream Night Serum and Dream Night Cream are clinically tested formulas powered by Bio Retinol and designed to reduce the visible effects of stress on your skin while you sleep. You guys know that I am all about making the things you're already doing work for you. So why not make this work for you in your sleep? So I love this because it really helps me wind down not only because of this beautiful scent and how it feels on my skin but I'm really loving that it's something that supports my nighttime ritual while I sleep and it helps me settle in for the night because my skin feels so good. And again, it's got that nice lavender scent that I always associate to nighttime sleep because skincare truly is self-care you guys. So Osea's newest product in the Dream Collection is the Dream Bio Retinol Body Serum. And let me tell you skincare for me this year is not just about my face, it's about my whole body. So you should make this a key part of your personal body care routine just like I am. And I think you're going to fall in love with it. So it's a full body restorative treatment that visibly de-stresses the skin with a holistic blend of Bio Retinol, red seaweed, magnesium and lavender. I think the second that you put it on, you're gonna feel the difference just like I did and you're gonna see the difference. I mean, talk about looking like glass skin. I literally put it on and actually feel like I wanna go somewhere because my skin looks so plump and hydrated and useful. So you guys give your skin a rest with clean, clinically tested skincare from Osea. And right now we have a special discount just for our listeners. Get 10% off your first order site wide with code EARN at OseaMalibu.com. And trust me, you're gonna love this so much, you're gonna wanna buy one for your friends. Kaylee and Riley, we are so excited to have you on the podcast. Welcome to the EARN Your Happy Podcast and the Chris Harder Show. Chris Harder Show is gonna say, don't leave me out. Yeah. Okay, so here's what I wanted to start. You guys just wrapped up your first day of our two day in-person, year-to-week-end mastermind. What's your opinion of collaborating with so many other people at once? Oh, it's the best thing ever. Like a rising tide lifts all ships. And I think that's the most powerful thing of getting in the room with game changers is, I was, I told her when we were like getting ready for this, I said, isn't it so nice to sit in a room with people where they're like, oh, okay, easy. This is how you make a million bucks in a year. Versus sitting in rooms where people are like, oh my gosh, this is run out, this isn't, you can't do this, that's never, like your dreams are crazy, you're just too big of a dreamer, you're too much. And it just feels really nice to be in a room with people where they're like, okay, that's your big dream, this is how you make it happen. And instead of, that's your big dream and you're insane, that could never happen. Riley, you told a really cool story in the beginning where you didn't allow yourself to dream, you didn't understand entrepreneurship, you didn't, you're like, that's for other people. I just lived the lifetime dealt. And now you're like in a very short amount of time, you're at the past, I forgot if you said months or years, but in a very short amount of time, you've changed your whole world upside down. Would you mind sharing it? Cause people get inspired by this. Yeah, my story is pretty crazy actually. I grew up with a lot of trauma. I'm a survivor of 10 out of 10 adverse childhood experiences. I'm a childhood sexual abuse survivor and I'd say I spent my last 10 years doing thousands of hours of therapy and healing through different modalities. And I was a person after college, I had no family to help me out. So I slept on a broken bed for a couple of years, living paycheck to paycheck, working at a group home with adolescent boys who also didn't have families. So I spent my entire holidays with them and they'd always say, well, I have no family. And I'd say, well, I'll spend Christmas with you. And they still keep in touch with me and they say like, you changed my life so much. And I started, I got sober when I was 21. I stopped drinking. I was going down the wrong path and both my parents were alcoholics and I just had a really rough upbringing. And I thought, I wanna change my life. I want something better. So I started pouring into helping people, especially young women, to find a recovery path that works for them. And I see in the nonprofit, I did move up quite a bit I was running campaigns on substance use prevention with a company called Shatterproof. And then I'm actually finishing my master's degree in prevention science. I have one class left. But when I met Keely over three years ago, literally first date, we're sitting on my bed and she goes, I wanna be like the next Glenn and Doyle and Abby Wambach. And I was like, oh my gosh, that would be a dream. Like, I love them. We listen to everything they do. And I'm so inspired by all these people. And Keely's like, I wanna life that's more than paycheck to paycheck. Like, I wanna make so much money and I wanna have all these kids. And we both agree we wanted more than five kids. And we were just like, I was sitting there and I'm like, on my bed. I'm like, is this possible? And I said, here you start, you start your journey. I'm gonna stay stable. And then once I see that you succeed, maybe I'll join you in this path. So she's like, come on a model home tour with me. I said, what's that? I'm like, I have no idea what real estate mortgages are. I've learned like no skills. And so then she took me on some and I started getting to know the clients and I love people too. I'm a little more introverted, but then I just, I caught the bug. And I was like, wow, not only is it lucrative, we can make money, but there's purpose. And there's mission behind what we're doing. That's amazing. Okay, so intro, what you are both doing. And you have a company called Property Wives. It is such good brand.  and and and What, who are you like telling me about you, telling me about your dreams? And I was like, yeah, I want to be an entrepreneur. I want to own all these properties. I want to own healing retreat centers. I want to help people buy and sell real estate. And I want to help people build generational wealth through real estate. It's a really important thing for me. Home ownership is one of the greatest wealth transfers in families and we don't see it in marginalized people groups. And we're like really passionate about helping all marginalized people groups, but being part of the queer community, we are on mission right now to build the largest platform that helps queer and trans people relocate around the world safely and do it with allies or people in the community, which allows us to not only help them on a path of home ownership, but help them on a path to safety and safety and shelter are two of the basic fundamentals for all of us to survive, for all of us to thrive. And it's exciting to like help you move from like survival and paycheck to paycheck to thriving. And that's like what we want to help so many people do. Marginalized groups have traditionally always had a very hard time breaking into home ownership. And so it makes sense why this is your mission. Would you give a little more detail around why marginalized groups have such a hard time breaking into home ownership as opposed to other groups? Wow, that's such a good question. And I'm like, we don't have four hours to unpack it. So I'm trying to consolidate the cliff notes version. I think for one, when you're a marginalized people group, you wake up at a disadvantage fighting for a right. And in a world that's like, oh, DEI gives unqualified people positions that they didn't earn. What DEI actually did was give qualified people an opportunity to take a position they were fully qualified for. And that's like for anyone like racial inequality, all of the marginalized people groups, like not just queer trans individuals, but what we're seeing specifically in the population that we help is people messaging us on TikTok and Instagram daily. Like I just got kicked out of my housing because they asked if the guy who spent the night was my boyfriend and I said, yes. And they terminated my lease and kicked me out of my home the next day. And I just got evicted because I told my landlord when they addressed me to please address me with new pronouns that I'm going by. And they evicted me the next day. And they're like, I don't know how I'm gonna rent at another place now. Like even if I move states, evictions stay on your record. And so if you can't rent a place and then you can't have an address to get a job and you can't get a job to pay for an address, it's just this perpetual cycle. But then I think also a lot of marginalized people groups and a lot of people in the queer and trans community do lose their families. And that's not why Riley's estranged from her family but that is a story for a lot of people. And so there's not that familiar support. There is not that like, oh, hey, we're gonna like gift you your down payment that I see in a lot of families that do help young kids get into home ownership. And I think it is just this perpetuation of, like there's so many roadblocks. And I don't know, I love the analogy of like, people say, oh, well, we all started at the same place. But if you imagine like a track and someone starting here, someone starting here, someone starting here, you might all be running the same human race, but everyone's not starting at the same place. And everyone doesn't have the same amount of hurdles, they have to jump over. So if I'm running around a track and I have no hurdles to jump, I'm gonna get there a lot faster than someone that has an hurdle every 30 feet to jump over. And I think marginalized people groups in general, just have a lot more hurdles to jump over than those that aren't identified in a marginalized people group. We've seen real estate skyrocket over the past five years, like just double more than double. And that's probably made it even more difficult for any groups that are kind of starting from a disadvantage to break in. Cause now it's hard for anyone to break into home ownership. What are some of the things that you guys are doing to help put people into more homes? Yeah, so I'll answer this one. I'm really passionate about this that everyone deserves to be heard and listened to. And I've been getting, I'll say over the past two weeks, we've had over 2000 followers and maybe a couple of hundred messages and I'm sick cause I'm in my pregnancy right now. So I'm laying in bed and like that's my full-time job is responding to people. So probably 50 of those were people who are homeless and they were like, I just have no one that will listen to me or hear out my story. And so we're actually setting up our platform so that we can monetize off of the people who do wanna buy homes and the people who are gonna rent. And then also be able to create resource packets for people who are at a lower socioeconomic disadvantage and then be able to help people and basically just meet them where they're at. Because like I, we've cried a lot over the past two weeks because we've heard some like really heartbreaking stories and the people that are messaging us are thanking us so much just for making these videos that are educating the public. And they're like, thank you for caring about us. We get like hundreds of messages a day just people just being like, thank you so much. And so, yeah, we originally started out in real estate where we were like, we're gonna help people buy homes and we're gonna list homes and sell them. And then we like launched this idea and then we realized that a lot of people can rent and a lot of people wanted to move to Denver to rent. And so we are now trying to make our business more of like a referral business and be able to help people get into housing and with the money that they have. However, I do wanna add there are a lot of really cool resources. We live in Colorado, so I sell real estate in Colorado. And I'm also a licensed loan originator. And there is a program called CHAPA, which is Colorado Home Buyers Down Payment Assistance Program. And they will pay your entire down payment. So 3.5% of your loan value for you. Regardless of size. Up to $800,000, I believe. Absolutely, that's a really big place. And you just have to come out of pocket $1,000 and go through their home buyer education course. So you can go through this program and we can get you into a home. As long as your monthly income qualifies to pay your mortgage after that, you get into the home and that loan is good for 20 years. You don't have to pay it back for 20 years or if you refinance or you sell the home, then you would pay it back with the home's proceeds. But that's a program that we help a lot of people break into home ownership with because it gets rid of the idea that you need 20% down to buy a house. Most first time home buyers can qualify for a home with 3.5% down. And in Colorado, you can use the FHA first time home buyer down payment assistance program and you can do that. Another option is USDA loans. You can get them in more rural areas and you can get those for 0% down as well. And you just need to pay your closing costs. We also though, as a realtor, I can negotiate for the seller to pay your closing costs as a term of the contract so that you're not having to pay like eight to $12,000 in closing costs either. So you're truly only paying $1,000. Even if your earnest money you put down is more than that, you'll get it back at close. This is exactly what I'm talking about. The two of you speaking up about these things being available, nobody knows this stuff without you guys sharing this information. I want to teal Ori up for a question. I know she's dying to ask because you've been doing it on TikTok as of late. You've got a brand new to TikTok. And while we sat here today, you got hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of new followers while we're sitting there. So that's the question is, for anybody listening, I think what's been so great about getting to know you guys just even over just this past day that we've had you at the mastermind is you have really, like you really niche down and you're like, both of you have talked today so much about how some of the things that you have talked about, you know it's going to push a lot of people away, but it's also going to bring your ideal customer. So tell me some of the things that you think are the reasons why you're growing on TikTok so quickly. So I'll say that we do have funny comedy and we love it. We have so much, we love making content. We sit there and we just laugh so hard all night that are absurd. Like it's just, it's so funny. And so we mix it up. We do serious content because we're addressing some serious issues. We're talking about discrimination, workplace discrimination, housing discrimination. And then we also kind of like do comedy skits to make people laugh. And we get so many messages like, thank you for making me smile. Thank you for making me laugh. And we always joke. We want to like be an opener on a comedy skit one day or something. Shout out Chelsea Handler. Yeah. So, but yeah, I think the mix of like funny and that, but I think also the way algorithms work is that like the word trans is very out there right now. Like we have an administration that just said that they are like a terrorist organization and we're coming out saying like, no, we disagree with that. We believe that they're human beings. And when people come to us and they're like, well, like I'm cool with you two because like you're super cool. So like I don't care that you're gay, but I just don't understand the whole trans thing. I don't get the whole transgender thing. And our answer is we don't either, but I don't need to get it to respect them as human beings and to honor that they are suffering in a way that I've never experienced suffering and they were brave enough to do something about it in a world that makes them hated for it. And to me, that is something that I just admire and respect to anyone of any issue that is like, if I can see you that like you are suffering from an issue that you were dealt that you had zero control over, but you didn't just sit there and suffer in it. You did something about it. Like that should be applauded that someone was brave enough to say like, something is wrong here for me and I'm gonna do something about it. And the other thing is people are like, oh, well, you're just gay or you're trans for attention. That's something that people say all the time. It's just a phase or this. And I'm like, there has never been more negative attention than to this group of people right now. And I think the reality is because of that and we're standing here like, I don't care what this costs us. We are specifically like targeting you in a good way because you are being targeted in such a negative way in every other sphere of this world currently. Like we will stand up and say like, I stand for you. And I remember one of the books that Glennon Doyle, who's like such an inspiration to me, she was reading her daughter's book after George Floyd and her daughter was like, mommy, like would we be marching in those? And she was like, of course, sweetie. And her older daughter said, no, we wouldn't because there's marches going on now for the same thing of racism and we're not marching in them. And when Riley was like, we need to start speaking about this. I was kind of like, one, I'm scared that I'm gonna get in trouble for violating fair housing laws because someone's gonna come out and be like, oh, you're only working with this population. Like you're refusing to work with me. And I'm like, that's not true at all. Like we work with all people. We work with people that vote different than us, that pray different than us, that look different than us, that are different races, that like 90% of our clientele are still straight people because they're still the majority of the world. And I was also like just scared selfishly. Like I was like, that puts us in a category that is like, they have a target on their back that is so large right now in this country and us standing for them moves that target to our back. And we're lucky. Like we're straight passing, we walk down a street, people aren't giving us dirty looks. They assume that we're friends. They assume that we're sisters. They assume that we're both straight women. And this population often doesn't have that privilege. Many of them in different periods, you can tell. And so they're just immediately discriminated against and we just wanna immediately like come to their defense and be like, we see you, we support you, we love you and we want to help you find safety. I just wanted to add one thing. Our whole, our tagline is, if you're brave enough to choose love over hate, you'll change the world. We work with everyone. Like at the end of the day, we work with so many people that will look at us and they'll be like, I vote differently than you and we'll say, okay, but do you respect us? Yes, I respect you. We said, we'll respect your beliefs. And then we work with them. And oftentimes they come to us later and they say, I'm so glad you loved us through this process and let us just like change our opinion and what we thought of the LGBTQ community. And we get these messages all the time from people who are like, both of you are so loving even though we have different beliefs in you. And we always are saying choose love over hate. So we always choose love in the end. And someone can totally hate us for what we stand for, but we're still gonna choose to love them. I think what I picked up from that is if you stand up unapologetically for something, then it's easier to stand out, right? And that's what everyone's trying to do. How do I stand out? How do I get, well, stand up for something you believe in instead of just kind of getting vanilla on everything. You had an interesting story that you shared today with a group. You went to show a house recently and people had a negative reaction towards you. Would you mind sharing a brief version of the story? Yeah, luckily it wasn't in person. So I could just hang up and be like, bye. But yeah, like as a realtor you get lead sources and I got one and the woman clicked on my ad. That was a picture of me and filled out her information to work with me. And then I gave her a call and we chocked for over 30 minutes. And it was a lovely call. And she was like, you're so great. This was so pleasant. Thank you so much. She said, do you have a family? And I said, I do. My wife and I are expecting our first baby in December. We're so excited. And before I could even finish my sentence, she was like, ew, that is so disgusting. You and gay people and all of your agendas are what is wrong with this country. Like I will not be working with you. God bless. I was like, okay, God bless you too, my guest lady. And then she hung up and it is interesting though. Like we had one where people are just like really weird to us and rude and like we're like, we're not interested and just kind of walked away at one tour. But the cool thing is, is I feel like those are the stories that the news wants us to hear. And my reality is the story I want you to hear is that that is one in a million. We have a million people that love us, that see us, that support us. And I'm really passionate about like, there is good and bad in every single thing and every single day. And every one of us could wake up and choose to only see the bad in the world cause it's there. And every single one of us can wake up and choose to be the good in the world. And that adds to it. And so yeah, people can hate us, people can disagree with us. And like you said at the end of the day, I'm just like, I'm sorry that your heart is stuck in so much hate. And I'll say the other awesome thing I love about us is we're open to dialogue. And we love hearing people's different views and opinions. Like we never are there to shut people down. We actually both grew up in pretty conservative homes ourselves. And so I've had friends who have very different beliefs in me, I post something about trans rights, they reach out, well, have you thought about this, this? And I said, tell me what you think. I want to hear what you think and then I'll tell you what I think. And I said, this is the problem with our country right now is we're not having these dialogues. This is true. Like, of course, we could be sitting here. We might have totally different political beliefs, but you respect us enough to like hear our opinion. And we respect you both for everything that you do in the world. So I just think that we're not as different as people think at the end of the day. Like I think a lot of people want to choose love over hate. We don't want the same things. At the end of the day, if you had a private test and said, OK, what do you really do? What do you want for your family? What do you want for your finances? Everybody wants the same things. And they've just done such a good job of dividing all of us and making everybody want to argue and fight and hate. And they've made it so that we don't realize that for the most part, everyone's aligned on the same outcomes that everybody wants. And it's just gotten so crazy. Yeah. Yeah, something I do when I get the chance to speak is I'll introduce myself and then I'll say, I'm just like everyone to close their eyes for a quick minute. We'll be here for less than 60 seconds. And I just want you to imagine the person you love the most in your life. You love them enough. They've immediately already popped into your vision in your mind. What do you want for them? I want you to imagine someone lifting them up, cheering them, supporting them when they're down, helping them up when they're out of luck, supporting them when you're gone, long after maybe you're dead, maybe you're just not in the room when they need help, in someone helping them. Doesn't that feel so good in your heart? Maybe you have a smile on your face already. And now I want you to imagine that same person you love more than anything, being disrespected, being spit on, being ignored, being treated unfairly. That's got to hurt your heart. However, when we open our eyes and we look around at the world too many of us are forgetting that the person we see in front of us is someone's most important person in the world. And so we all were taught it in kindergarten, but if only we could go back to treat others the way we want to be treated. That's a pretty good business rule, too. Yeah, it really was just I had a business question in my head, and I'm like, wow, it's just so much of how we treat each other, applies to people want a great business, they want to make a ton of money, and they forget they were all human. We talk about that all the time of how much what we do is because of how we've viewed people and the things we've had to learn about people. And the, oh my gosh, the amount of people we've had to work with with different views, with different. Just how we approach things and having to learn how to be that person. And I would say the two of you will be so successful because you are able to step into so many people's positions and shoes and understand. And being able to perceive and stand in someone's shoes is probably one of the most powerful things that you can possibly do in life, business, relationships, everything. So do you want to leave any last words with our people? You can follow us on TikTok and Instagram at the property, Y, W-I-V-E-S. And on our TikTok, Instagram, and website, you can find if you're a realtor, if you're an apartment locator, if you are a landlord that owns apartments all across the nation, we would love for you to apply to be a part of our community and our network so that we can have safe allies and community members there. And then also if you are in need of our services and you want to relocate. Or if you just love the mission of what we're doing and you want to go through our platform to relocate so that it can help us reallocate funds back to those who need them. And if you're a business owner, we would love to also host you on our platform because as we talked about, so many of these people face discrimination also in the workplace, which makes it harder to afford housing. And so if you are a safe employer, that would like to advertise on our platform. We would love to work with you as well. And that falls under the Safe Haven Homes Initiative. Yeah. Very cool. All right, you guys, thank you so much for coming on the show. Yeah, thank you so much.