This episode of Earn Your Happy is sponsored in part by Shopify, Quint Open Phone, Constant Contact, Bamboo HR, and Northwest Registered Agent. Turn your big business idea into cha-ching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. See why over 60,000 businesses trust Open Phone. Open Phone is offering my listeners 20% off of your first six months at openphone.com/earn. Don't wait. Protect your privacy, build your brand, and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregistered agent.com/earn. Let your bed match the season with cool, relaxed betting from Quint. Go to quint.com/happy for free shipping on your order and 365day returns. Constant Contact's award-winning marketing platform is here to make marketing way easier and way more effective for small businesses like yours. Try Constant Contact free for 30 days at constant contact.com. Bamboo HR prides itself on being easy to use, easy to learn, easy to implement, and very easy to love. HR is hard, but Bamboo HR is easy. Check it out for yourself with a free demo at bamboor.com/free demo. Couldn't live like my family lived. I couldn't go bankrupt like I watched my parents go. I couldn't have the fights every single day about money in my household anymore. I couldn't live under that stress, that pressure, that anxiety with my nervous system [\h__\h] hijacked every day. You guys, if you don't want to live like that, do the hard [\h__\h] Get yourself out. Free yourself from the shackles. Hey everyone, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. It's time for another quickie because there's always time for inspiration and I am finding myself right now in my closet again on the floor recording a podcast. Now I have a podcast studio. We moved into a bigger house. I have so many bedrooms. Why am I finding myself in the closet again? Well, our yard people are here who are amazing and I'm so grateful for them. But I swear I'm like, how do I still end up in the closet even after building out a podcast studio and I have to get this podcast done literally right now cuz my day is super booked. So here I am. You know, it just makes me feel like I am back in the beginning grinding it out, which I've been in the closet so many times for this podcast that I wasn't even in the beginning. Like I think I pretty much did this a lot last year as well. So somehow somehow the closet is still one of the best spots to record your podcast you guys into your iPhone. So if you are giving yourself excuses about anything, let me just tell you most great things start super basic and they're just done really consistently. So I am so pumped about this topic. You have no idea because I am in it right now. And when I say I'm in it, I am like so lit up, so on fire, so in manifesting mode, so in building phase, so in action mode, like more than I think that I've ever been in a very, very long time. And it feels super exciting to wake up every single day excited about my life and excited about what I'm doing. And it doesn't mean it's because I'm doing all fun things. It means that I am feeling really challenged, but I'm in total alignment with what I want to be doing with my life. So, it's just like, yes, there's still frustrations. Yes, there's still figuring things out every single day. And, you know, I know that every single day is going to bring some really hard stuff, but I also know it's going to bring stuff that I love to solve, challenges I love to solve, getting to work with people that I love to work with and and bringing ideas to life that I am so excited about. And before we get started into the episode, I want to remind you that the 25% off for Glossy for firsttime subscribers is going to be going away. So, we're going to be dropping that down a bit. So, you won't get a full 25% off, you guys. So, if you want to grab it, you have had a full year of 25% off if you have not become a customer yet. Go to getloscey.com for 25% off and use code happy because those codes will be changing as we are growing, as we are scaling, which is so exciting. I am actually going into a fund raise right now. So, I am fundraising for accredited investors. I'm fundraising in another angel round. I believe this will be my absolute last angel round, which if you don't know what that is, they kind of call it friends, family, your network. And this is an opportunity to be a part of Glossy if you're excited about the company and where it's going and if you've always wanted to really learn kind of the ins and outs of what that looks like and have an investment into a CPG product, which is so much fun. But you can DM me if you're interested in that. But you do have to be an accredited investor. For all of you who don't know what that is, you guys, ChatGpt is your best friend. You can find out there. Um, and just message me if you have any questions. So today's episode, this is literally something we all need because of where I'm at right now. This is about shooting your shot and what it really takes to close the deal. So this is why you're not selling enough and how to fix it. And whether you are selling a physical product, whether you are selling something digital, whether you are working for a company and you're selling yourself, whether you are, you know, selling courses, whether you are a coach, whether you have a brickandmortar and you need more customers, this is what it takes in order to close the deal, get the deal done. You might even be selling yourself online to build your personal brand. This is about selling yourself to build your audience, you guys. to sell yourself if you have a podcast. Like, how do you close the deal on getting things done for what it is that you want? So, most people aren't failing because their idea sucks. They're failing because they're not putting themselves out there enough and they quit too soon. And I know a lot of you think that you're doing a lot of work right now. I get it. I have been there. I was like, how much work does somebody actually need to do to get this done? And it's a lot more than people think. It's so much more that I spent some time getting the stats because I really wanted you to understand what it looks like so that when you go and try and you spend time trying that I don't want you to stop because what a waste of time to have started and never ever finish and then just keep starting and keep thinking that you're failing when you can actually know what the percentages are. so that you can work to shoot at that. And that changed my life is when somebody pulled back the curtain for me and said, "Okay, this is so cute what you're doing, but here's what I'm doing and here's the numbers I'm getting and here's how you get that." It's all a numbers game. So, you can either be in the game or out of the game. But if you're going to be in the game, don't go in pretending that you think you know what it is when you don't know and then you think you're doing enough when you're not even scratching the surface. It's a waste of [\h__\h] time. Like you're actually completely wasting all of that time that you're taking thinking about it, worrying about it, putting yourself out there if it's not even hitting the mark. Because there is something about momentum. You have to catch momentum, you guys. And if you never catch momentum, you're just always in this place in the middle that's absolutely miserable. I've been there. Don't waste years in the middle where you're miserable. So, let's talk about the stats. 80% of sales require at least five follow-ups, but 44% of people give up after just one follow-up. Which if you are one of the people who are going for it, this actually makes your life a lot easier because I always think about this like if I just keep following up and sticking to it, over half of the people are going to fall off. Over half of my competition is going to fall by the wayside. And if 44% falls off by the first follow-up, how many fall off by the second or by the third or by the fourth? And if you're willing to do the fifth, that's when we can start to talk, right? So I guarantee by the time we're at the fifth follow-up, I bet it's almost 80% of people who have fallen off. So here's the stats that you guys need to hear. This is from Alex Hermosi, the rule of 100. He said, "If you're trying to grow, do a hundred of something before you assess any result. 100 DMs, 100 emails, 100 calls, not three. So, right now, as I'm looking for investors, I'm not reaching out to five people and getting all butt hurt if I don't hear back. Like, number one, I'm following up with every single one of those people until I hear a yes or a no. And number two, I'm not doing this to five people. I'm maybe starting at five people a day, maybe more. You guys, these are the numbers we need to know. So, the follow-up is where the deal closes. 2% of the sales happen on the first contact. I want you to hear that again. 2% of sales happen on the first contact. So that's like literally nothing. And we don't even know if that was a first contact or if they've kind of heard of you or if they've been listening to something of yours or if some sort of trust was built there, maybe even through a friend. But 2% of sales, that is it. So, can you live off the 2% if all you're doing is first contacts and, you know, getting upset or stopping when you get turned down the first time? So, can you live on the 2% if you're only willing to reach out once? The answer is no. 80% happen between the fifth and 12th contact. 80% happen between the fifth and 12th contact. But again, 44% give up after one follow-up. 94% of salespeople give up by the fourth follow-up. Okay, so there's our stats. 94% of salespeople give up by the fourth follow-up except 80% of the sales happened between the fifth and the 12th contact. So how much more money could you have made? How much more success could your company have had? Could you have saved your company if you would have just been willing to follow up, you know, five to maybe go up to the TW, not maybe go up to the 12 times. So the DM outreach conversion benchmarks, this is for like the influencer creator creator economy, you can expect a 1 to 5% conversion from cold DMs to customers. And what that means is for every 100 messages, you get one to five sales. So for every 100 DMs, you'll get one up to five sales. So this is huge for people to understand. If you are selling something, this is what you have to aim for depending on what you want to do. So you have to figure out that stat and know 1 to 5% conversion from cold DMs. So for how much you want it to convert, you have to figure out how many messages you're going to have to send. All right. Email campaign benchmarks. The industry average open rate, this means the even if you're just sending them to people, right? The industry average open rate is 20 to 30%. So even if you've sent it to a 100 people, only 20 to 30% of those people are going to open it. The click-through rate, which means the amount of people actually clicking a link and going to the place that you want them to go, is 1 to 3% of that 20 to 30%. So, the conversion of that click-through rate is often 1%. But when you follow up, this multiplies, right? That can go up a bit, but if you keep following up and you keep warming them up, that's definitely going to go up a bit. But this is what you can count on. So, now you need to know how big you need to grow your list to get the numbers that you want. So, when it comes to sales, nobody knows you're selling something unless you tell them five times. Nobody knows you have anything to sell them unless you tell them five times. Now, this isn't even about telling them five times. This is about have they seen it five times. So, when you think of your when you're launching something, you're like, "Oh, I had a silent launch, right? Like, nobody showed up. I didn't sell anything." Okay, did your people even see it once? Did they see it twice? Did they see it the five times that they needed to even know that you had something for sale? So, if you feel annoying, you're probably just starting to be remembered. Like, you are just scratching the surface. If you don't feel annoying, then you probably have crickets in your sales. I can guarantee it. You are going to need to feel like you are turning that camera on and talking about it all the time. So, you're not being ghosted. People are just busy. Like, your particular job is to literally stay top of mind for people. And people don't always buy when you're ready. They buy when they're ready. So, they really need to hear from you often. Like, you need to keep them warmed up. They need to know what you're offering. You need to be in their face every single day because it there's going to come a time in their life where they are ready and you're going to need to be there with that message or someone else will be. So, a sales mind shift that I want you guys to have like a sales mindset shift. Your job is never to convince people ever. Like the times that I've convinced people over and over like, "Oh, you really should do this." And they're not very interested, they aren't good customers for us. They typically tend to either ask for their money back or something doesn't go right in the group. I do not want people that I have to heavily heavily convince. Your job is to connect with them. You need to be the person who just says, you know, I see you. I understand this. I know this could help and I'm here when you're ready. That's really what people are connecting to and most people don't know what they need until someone tells them. So you do have to be bold. So I know I just said, you know, your job is not to convince, but there is a difference between convincing and telling somebody what they've already told you, like really reiterating the message that they told you. So, if they ask you for help, like, you know, I remember when people would always um ask me about my training, like, I really want a trainer, but I haven't, you know, followed through and I've been thinking about it for years. I'm not going to sit and convince a person who's not interested, but they just told me they're interested. And especially if they say after I ask them what their goals are and what stopped them, if they're like, you know, I have these goals. I want to feel better. I want to feel confident in my body. I don't want to be I don't want to feel lethargic anymore. I don't want to change my outfit 10 times before I go out because I hate how I look. Like that is permission for me to then come in and say, "Look, I know that you are hesitant about a trainer, but it sounds like, you know, you have big goals and you have not been able to reach them in the past 3 years." And I understand it. I understand what it feels like to feel stuck somewhere that you don't want to be. And it affects your everyday life. It affects your every single move. I've been there. I see you. I understand. But if you don't do this right now, nothing is ever going to change. And I just feel like I'm here to tell you that you need accountability. And I really believe that you would love this program and that this could change your entire life if you just commit to this with me. So why don't we just commit for the next three months? We'll do this together and we'll get you to that goal. but I'm gonna need you to go all in because you haven't yet. You know, something like that. So, I feel like that is a bold statement to say, I think this is the time that you need to do it or I don't think you're ever going to do it. I think you're always going to sit in this middle of the road and another, you know, one to five years is going to go by and you're going to be in the same place if you don't make a change right now. So, I really want to be the person who tells you you have to do this. If you don't do this now, more years are going to go by and it only gets harder and harder to go after, you know, to to get your health in check. And so that's the kind of boldness and clarity and confidence that you need to come in with. And if you're unsure about yourself or what you're selling, they're going to be unsure, too, and they're not going to commit. So you have to get really, really rooted in what you're doing. And for me, what I was doing in fitness, I was just so freaking clear. It's like what I'm doing in Glossy. I am so clear that this daily ritual is going to change your life. Like you should absolutely be hydrating every single day. You should be absolutely getting your electrolytes. You should be getting your magnesium. You should be taking a probiotic. Like I believe in it so much that I'm literally like I tell my friends I'm like, "What are you doing?" Like why are you not drinking this? Why would you not put this in your body if you know it works? And there's actual clinical studies on this probiotic. Like why would you drink plain water? And you're not even drinking water. So this will help you drink water. Like there's so much lowhanging fruit that glossy can help with that to me I don't understand why you wouldn't. And that's how rooted in your message that you need to get. And then you need to follow up you guys. So the sales strategy framework you need to be thinking about is shoot your shot, serve that person, and then follow up, right? You need to stay So, a lot of you may have seen that my husband Chris and I run masterminds. And with that, we get to help scale entrepreneurs businesses, but we also get to see the inside of their businesses and what they struggle with the most. From software to onboarding employees and creating a company culture. That's typically one of the biggest things. And Bamboo HR is a powerful yet flexible all-in-one HR solution for growing your business. Stop spending countless hours on payroll, time tracking, benefits, performance management. With Bamboo HR, those hours are shaved down to minutes so you can go and do what you do best. Bamboo HR also has robust hiring and onboarding tools that will streamline the process, thus creating much better first days and first impressions for those new hires. Plus, Bamboo HR prides itself on being super easy, easy to use, easy to learn, easy to implement, and very easy to love. Take a couple minutes to check out the free demo and see how nimble and affordable this valuable tool can be. HR is hard, but Bamboo HR is easy. I can't recommend Bamboo HR enough. Check it out for yourself with a free demo at bamboohr.com/free demo. That's bamboohr.com/free demo. bamboohr.comfree demo. When I first started Glossy, I was so overwhelmed. I felt like I had to do everything on my own because you do and your to-do list just keeps mounting. But let me tell you, when you're starting off with something new, it just seems like that list is growing and growing and growing. And it can quickly overrun your life. So, you have to start learning to find the right tools that can not only help you out, but simplify everything. And that is a gamecher. And let me tell you, for millions of businesses, that tool is Shopify. And I am included in those numbers. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started and I'm going to add mine to the list, Glossy. Get started with your own design studio. With hundreds of readytouse templates, Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. And you guys, I love my website so much that's on Shopify. Go and check it out. Also, Shopify is your e-commerce expert with world-class expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into cha-ching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy.ify.com/happy. So, you need to shoot your shot. You need to get in the room. You need to send the DMs. You need to ask the questions. You need to then serve them. Don't pitch. You just need to help. You need to add value. You need to share what they need. You need to share stories about similar people that you know who have the same, you know, issues as them and people who have overcome it. They need to know that you really understand and they need to see people who have done it before, hear about people who have done it before. So, use other people's testimonials if you don't have one yourself and be the answer to that pain point. And then you need to stay right. You need to stay consistent. You need to stay in the follow-up. You need to stay emotionally detached from that outcome. And again, the most common sales mistakes are just quitting too early. Another huge one is talking too much. Oh my god, you guys, asking too little. Like when I do sales calls, I hardly hardly talk. I want them to tell me all of their goals, all of their struggles, what's stopped them. I want to really listen. I'm going to repeat back to them what I'm hearing. And then I'm going to get that bold statement like, "This is what we need to do. here's why you've been waiting, you know, here's what we need to do. So, the other thing is a lot of sales people will accidentally make it about themselves and not the other people. Make sure you're listening far more than you're talking. And talking less is way better. Like especially overcoming objections. Overcoming an objection should only be like one to three sentences ma max. And then you shut the heck up. When people justify their prices, justify objections. Like this is where everyone goes wrong. talk less, say less, sit in that awkward afterward and let them just think. Like, they actually need time to think on these sales calls. And when you fill space, they don't have time. So, this takes so much self-restraint. This takes so much self-confidence. And you can only do it by getting the reps in. And, you know, I did hundreds of DMs and thousands, sorry, if not hundreds of thousands. I don't even know. I was in network marketing for so long. And I had to, you know, I owned a gym. I had to sell my services and that was so challenging in cold outreach, you guys. Like, I had to become a master of sales or my gym would close. I had to become a master of sales or I would have stayed bankrupt and in debt and owing my in-laws hundreds of thousands of dollars and thinking about them watching me spend every single penny and feeling guilty about it with me knowing I wouldn't have had money to pay them back. Like, I couldn't live that way. So, I had to do the tough stuff. I had to do this because I couldn't struggle anymore. I couldn't live like my family lived. I couldn't go bankrupt like I watched my parents go. I couldn't have the fights every single day about money in my household anymore. I couldn't live under that stress, that pressure, that anxiety with my nervous system [\h__\h] hijacked every day. You guys, if you don't want to live like that, do the hard [\h__\h] Get in the TMs. Do it every single day and get yourself out. Free yourself from the shackles. Nobody wants to know how this actually works and this is how it actually works. So if you're not getting yeses yet, you need more practice and you need more reps and you need to be doing it more frequently. And if you are like thinking it's something else, you're lying to yourself. You need to become a master and the only way to do that is hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of reps. So you can either sit in the middle and feel bad for yourself and you know think that everyone else has it better than you or these other girls are more popular than you or they have a bigger better network. You can lie to yourself in that way and think that's how it started or you can know that everybody started this way. Everyone everyone started this way. So maybe there's some rare people out there who got, you know, some title wave of success that someone handed them, but even that you don't keep it if you don't figure it out. You do not keep that if you don't figure out the hard stuff behind everything that comes with a massive windfall like that. If it happens to happen, you guys, I don't want you to sit in the middle and struggle. It's miserable. So, I would prefer that you understand the numbers, get a whiteboard, and start tracking what you're doing. Start practicing. Start practicing your sales script. You guys, there's these are the things that we do in our mentor collective mastermind as well. Yesterday, we just had a sales call that was so awesome from one of the coaches in there. And if you guys don't know, Chris and I hire a roster of coaches in the mentor collective mastermind because that's what it is. Chris and I are mentors in there obviously. And then we have other mentors in there for every single area of your business. And so we had a sales call yesterday from Jillian who is a master of sales, especially in the DMs. And I love how real and raw she is because she gave it to us straight. Like she just says exactly what it takes. She knows all the numbers. Like here's what you got to do. And it's so fun to hear the people who are following what she's doing who are like, "Yep, these were the numbers. like this is what I did. These are the results I got or hey here's what I did. What do I need to tweak? Like this is what you get in that group. You get a ton of different like information. You're going to get different ideas, sales scripts. You're going to get, you know, you're going to go out real time and be able to practice exactly what you're doing. You're going to be able to apply everything that you're learning. And then once you get your data, you can bring it back. We can all assess it together. And then we tweak it again and send you back out. It's a whole thing. We're all doing this together, you guys. This group is absolutely phenomenal. And everything we're hearing from the mentor collective mastermind is that we have overd delivered beyond what they imagined. And that was really really the plan was to make this so robust that you felt like you had us in your business helping you along the way along with these coaches. So you guys, we are not enrolling right now, but we will be later in the year. So, if you are interested, I would love for you to just DM me the word mentor and I will put you on a list. DM me the word mentor. You can actually give me your email as well in the DMs in Instagram and I can put you on that weight list as well. So, until next time, you guys earn your happy. Bye everyone.