Hey everyone, happy Monday. I'm so excited to be back in your inbox with Monday vlogs and it is the month of love. Everybody's talking about it because Valentine's Day is coming. So whether you are going to take yourself out on a hot date and just indulge yourself with a great meal maybe at home or bubble bath or maybe you're with your significant other if you have one. I really want to focus this month being all about loving you first because we know that when you show up loving yourself first your relationships benefit all of them. Whether that's a significant other, whether that is your family, whether that's your co-workers, whatever it is. But I want to talk about how to get to that true place of power in your life through self-love. So, a lot of people don't necessarily understand why self-love is so important. Yes, it's great because when we love ourselves, we feel better about ourselves. We don't have as much negative self-t talk. All of these amazing things are supposed to happen in our lives, right, when we love ourselves. But I really want to get you to a place where you feel motivated to do this because there are incredible things that happen when you get rid of negative selft talk. So let's talk about really rooting deeply into the motivations of why it's important for you to love yourself. So when we're speaking negatively in our mind, what ends up happening is that we lose so much energy, it's literally proven that negative thoughts pull energy out of your body and you become drained really quickly. So just a quick uh test that you guys can really think about this. I don't know if you've ever been in in in the gym or um been trying to exert yourself physically and all of a sudden a negative thought comes in. you feel like all of a sudden the weight gets heavier, you can't go on, you don't want to do anything else. Uh, and you want to go home immediately, you just don't feel good, you don't want to complete the workout. So, even right now, if you think of something really negative or if you overwhelm yourself with all that you have to do, you actually feel yourself get drained and you have zero energy for anything. So, if you guys want energy for your job, for your life, for all of your goals, you're going to start using these mantras that I'm about to give you. You're going to start saying, "I noticed this thought. I forgive myself." And replace it with an empowered mantra. So, maybe for this month, you think of something and you know that one of my favorites is, "I'm a beautiful work in progress." And you replace it just like that. So, these are super simple shifts that I share all the time that you can do to get that energy back because you have to be rooted in a super powerful place in order to go after all of your goals. And you're not going to be able to get to that power place thinking negatively. But you can get to that power place if you're constantly learning how to forgive yourself and how to love yourself. So other ways to bring p or to get to that power place are to do things that recharge you and nurture yourself. So maybe you start with the thoughts. Maybe you start with all of those mantras. But if you have some extra time and you want to schedule something for yourself that recharges you. I want you guys to think of something. I want you to go on my Facebook page or comment below this uh video and let me know what is one thing that you love to do that recharges you, makes you feel good, uh that you could schedule in this week. Not that you could. Let's go with what you're going to schedule in this week. So, what is one thing that you're going to do this week that recharges you that you're going to get off of the computer and go and schedule right now? I promise you, if you take this powerful step, you're going to be giving yourself so much energy in turn being able to reach all of your goals. So, really start noticing what do you love and how can you uh speak more kindly to yourself. So you guys, I hope that you dedicate this entire month to making sure that you're recharging and that you're saying kind things to yourself and that you're truly putting yourself first. Because when you have that as a habit, that is really the most powerful place that you can come from, which means that you will show up powerfully in all your relationships, uh, in your career, and you'll be able to give more of yourself, and people will feel it. they will feel it and you'll have more energy for everything else that you want to do. So, happy Monday. Make this week amazing. Comment below. Let me know what you're going to do. And I shall see you next time. Bye, everyone.