 you talk about the living brand, and we were just saying, like, it's January 2026, it is a very different time. Everything changed last year. Everything. It's a very different concept. People don't do it this way, because, again, I've made over $100 million, and I still have less than 40,000 followers. So it's not about being undeniable and viral in World Famous, it's about being undeniable to the right people. Cynthia, welcome to the podcast. Thank you for coming on. Thanks for having me. I'm so excited that we get to sit down. So I don't know if you know how I found out about you, but I had gone down to speak at Samantha Skelly's event, and I got there after you, and everyone was like, oh, my God, Cynthia was just here, and she's amazing, and you know her, right? You guys know each other? And I was like, no, I don't know her. And I was like, you have to know. Like, three people came up to me and said, you have to know her, sent me home with a bag of your product. And I was like, all right, well, I have to know her. So I literally just took that as a mission of like, OK, well, let's get around the podcast as soon as possible, because three people said I have to know you. So I'm already happy about it. Okay. That means we have 30 seconds. I'm like, well, are you disappointed? No, I'm so happy. Are you going to go back to those people and go, what the fuck were you thinking? No, I'm already like, what I want the outfit links. I'm already using your serum, which we're going to talk about. Yeah. So I'm very excited. So welcome, welcome. Thank you. You know, though, I had heard the same thing. So I was out to dinner with a couple of friends and and Sean Stevenson. And I said, I'm speaking at this thing. And and I they brought you up before because I think maybe Sean has worked with you or yeah, we've done a few. I think we've run a few podcasts together. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So they kept saying, you guys are so much alike, you should totally connect. And I was like, OK, so here we are. I love that. I follow those now. Like I just follow those little nudges. And I know you're starting a podcast. Yeah. What's it called again? I want to thank myself. I'd like to thank myself. Thank myself. I love that. It's very it does. It does give Snoop Dogg in the best way. You know, it's funny. Everyone says that now. And I actually had the name before Snoop. But you know what? You know what? Though Snoop is new, someone to let him own it. And I think it's I think it's amazing. I think it's only going to raise raise it because I literally. It brings like familiarity. Yeah. Of like, no, we all know what that is. Like even social media has brought so much around like, no, I also really need to bring attention to myself. It's important. And I think that we're in the day and age now or maybe I'm just at the age where I feel like we thank everybody, right? We think our teams, we think our parent, we think the academy, you know, and when's the last time you stopped to thank yourself for not giving up for the long nights when all you fucking wanted to do was quit and somehow found a way through it. Yeah. Or, you know, it's just like for showing up day after day, year after year, because you had this mission, you had something to say, you had people to serve. I think that oftentimes we put ourselves last in that whole Academy Award speech. And I think it's time for that to change. So you started from a like a completely different background than where you're at right now. You could say that. Yeah. So tell me because I was reading your story and I was like, this is insane. So tell me a little bit about your backstory. Yeah. So I did not grow up in this world that we're in. No, either. Yeah, true. Which is I read, was looking at your story. You've come through some crazy stuff. But I grew up in the Appalachian Mountains where, yeah, I know. If you've ever seen the movie Deliverance, those were my neighbors and that was my family. Yes, I understand that actually. You get it? My family was all in a trailer park. Yeah. So that would have been an upgrade from me. My friend JJ always introduces me. She's like, she grew up in a trailer and I'm like, first of all, we have to start with that. And second of all, it wasn't a trailer. So we actually lived in a three room shack that had no running water. Yeah, we had an outhouse that we use and I'm not that old like I'm getting older, but I'm not that old. You know, it wasn't the 1800s. And my dad was an alcoholic and did a lot of drugs. My mom was doing the best she could from a traumatic upbringing herself. And so we were very, very poor. I remember, you know, not only we not have running water, but I would dumpster dive for clothes. As I got older, I, and luckily the town trash cans were like steps from our home. So was the creek and the Clint River. And so we would bathe in that in this. Yeah. And so that's kind of how I grew up. And with those households, you know, where there's drugs and poverty and just trauma, it's often breeds the worst case scenario. And so went through a lot of abuse at a very young age, physical abuse, mental abuse, was sexually abused for the first time at age five. So yeah, it was quite a different world from what I live in now. When did you get out of that? It took a long time as you would imagine because there was no, I mean, I didn't ever see anyone in entrepreneurship. Did you like, you have family? No, I didn't even know that word. No, I knew go to college and get a degree. And I was like, well, who the fuck is going to pay for that? Like, I had no idea how to, how do you go to college? You just go there one day and I had no idea. And my family had no idea. And so I, but the time that everything changed for me was this moment. I had always known that I didn't want that life to be my life. Yeah. Because even though I didn't have people around me, I had books, right? Right. And so sometimes I'd find them in the trash can. And sometimes we got to go to the library the next town over and that was fun, or I'd get them at school, school library. And I would see how other people lived. And I started taking notes from a really young age. I was like, wait, Nancy Drew does what? Okay, write that down. And so when I was in eighth grade, Lori, I'll never forget this sitting in class. And this girl who I won't name her name, but I'll always remember it out loud in front of everyone as the classroom is really quiet. She said, what do you mean you don't have running water in your house? And it was like everyone just stopped and looked at me. My little face is red. And on the inside, I'm just falling apart. And all I could think was don't let them see you cry. Don't let them see you cry. And so my comeback to her, you'll love this is whatever one day I'll have so many bathrooms, it'll take me 10 minutes just to pick one. I sort of got this is what I said to her doesn't we come back. And I stopped out of the classroom and I went straight to the bathroom. And I cried until like, anymore. But I went home that day. And I became obsessed. I had a fire in me like she had thought she was going to put me on blast. But she lit a fire that burns in me to this day. Like I tell when I tell that story, I go back there, I feel it again. And I became obsessed with becoming that woman who had so many bathrooms, it would take her 10 minutes just to pick one. And so that's when I knew everything would change. And from there, it was just what can I do? What can I do? What opportunity can I create? How do I get out of this situation and just pretended to be my future self and took on any opportunity that came, you know, got a job at 13 that painted signs when I was 10 years old with my dad for a trailer park. Yeah, so true entrepreneur from the beginning. And what was kind of the turning point in your was it later teens? Was it 20s? What did your life trajectory look like at that point? What were some of the interests that were coming up for you? Yeah, I didn't have any. My interest was how do I get rich? That was it. That's all I wanted to be. As a matter of fact, my friends had a Halloween party a few years ago and they said dress up is what you wanted to be when you were little. And I dressed up as a black amix car because I wanted to be rich. But what happened was I was like maybe a few years out of high school working a little job in a call center, right? We call people and you collect money. That was super fun. But I'm always searching the newspaper the help wanted because that's how old I am. And I was always searching and they I saw this ad one day for a calendar model. And I was like, and people had always said, oh, you have a pretty face. And I was like, well, some people have a trust fund. I have a face you use what you got. And so I went to this audition. I booked it. I was like, Miss June, it's $100. I was loaded. I know. Yeah, exactly. And I thought, how do I do more of this? Yeah, this is great. And so that photographer said, well, you can work with me on this. And so I started doing these little shoots $50 $100 $200 on a great day. And then one day he said, I know this photographer in Los Angeles, if you ever find your way out there, let me know because he does some ads out there. And I was like, Oh, it just so happens, I'm going to be there in two weeks. Was not going to be there two weeks. Packed my little bag. I didn't have a suitcase. I bought one at TJ Maxx, right? I know. So I go out and that just led one thing led to another. And I started booking some shoots made $500 made $600. And so that's what took me to Los Angeles was my face. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And what so what started skincare? What started the like, obsession with wanting to help women feel good in their skin? Rage. Yeah. An adulterated rage. So on my 40th birthday, yeah, I woke up, it's my birthday, I'm happy it's my birthday. And I started getting these text messages, you know, there was flowers on the counter from people that was nice, but the text messages started coming in. Some of them were great, happy birthday, me, me, me. But then some of them, Lori, were like, happy birthday, it's all downhill from here. I was like, what? I got those. Yeah. Did you get them to on my 40th? So I remember I responded to one and said, Oh, that's cute. That's not happening to me. And you know what she said? We all thought that I was like, what? So here I am. I've pulled myself out of deliverance, right? I've now made really good money. I've helped a lot of people have sold over a million books. I think my skin's looking better than it did in my 30s. But now because I hit 40, I'm just supposed to fade and be okay with that. Yeah. And I was like, absolutely fucking not. This is crazy. And so then I started talking to women like you, people who were just getting started, you know, and they said, Listen, I don't want to look 25. I just want my outsides to look how I feel on the inside. Yes. Yes. And so when I looked at the beauty industry, because that's what we do, right? You have glossy, like you look around and you see, well, what are the solutions? And when I looked around, it was either eight anti aging products that were sold through shame, right? Using a 20 year old space, or you could just age gracefully and own every wrinkle. And I thought, isn't there another option? Like, why are these the only two options? Can I not want to look 25, but just want my outside to reflect my insides? Like, and so I thought, how can I fix this? And that's when I thought, well, I'll do what I've always done. I'll just rewrite the story. Because that's what I've been doing since a little kid, you know, I would walk into my bedroom with the old wood stove. And I would imagine that it was a princess bed with a big canopy. And like, I would, it was crazy. Like I thought I was delusional. And for a while, I did think I was crazy. But I would help. But I would picture a different reality, like we need watermelon at my mom's house growing up because she grew it in the garden. Lori, I would pretend it was lobster. I didn't know what lobster was. Rich people food, rich people food. But I was gonna, that was going to be me, right? And so I've always rewritten stories, rewritten my reality. So I thought, I'll do that here too. And so I thought, okay, what if we rewrite the signs of aging by getting to the root cause of it? Because they kept hearing skincare products don't work, they don't work. And I kept saying, why don't they work? Turns out we have these things called zombie cells, they're in our bodies too, but they're also on our skin. And they're not dead, but they're not alive. There's kind of a, and then they infect the healthy cells on your skin next to them. And so it creates this dull, dry buildup of cells. That's what causes fine lines and wrinkles, diminishes collagen, that's the root cause. And you can't just exfoliate to get them off. And so I thought, well, how do we get them off, right? And so our product that we ended up developing gets to the root cause of that by using the only cosmetically approved ingredient to get rid of zombie cells on your skin. So when you do that, all of your other skin care products work better. And then we put in everything that you need for aging skin to plump it up, make it glow, smooth, fine lines and wrinkles. And we call the line rewritten. Because we also have a ritual that we do with it every day, where not only are you rewriting the signs of aging on your face, but you're rewriting the story that you're told about aging. And so we have mantras, we have a podcast every morning that drops to walk you through your two minute ritual, where you take a story that society has told you, like you become invisible as you age, and you repeat a mantra as we lead you through your skin care routine that rewrites that story. I love that. You know, it really, just when I was hearing about some of the story, like you're going to be invisible now, I literally remember I had written, I think I wrote a post around the age of 40 that was like, is any other woman feel this way that like the best is behind you. Now all of a sudden it's like you're just not being seen anymore. And I remember just like, feeling that so deeply. And having to make a decision. Yeah, like I had to make a decision that I was going to be seen, and to like, figure out what that looked like for this next chapter of my life. And I can honestly say, like after making that decision and, you know, doing a lot of the things that you actually do with your skin care line and the mantras and the, you know, just just really deciding and getting empowering things around making those decisions, like, I feel like in such a different place, I'm like, no, this half is actually better. You can make it better. Yeah. Like, I know it's women in their like 20s and 30s. I know this is so weird to hear, but there is like a weird line that you cross where you actually love yourself more and you even can think that you're prettier now, even though maybe you can't ever imagine that there's something that you can rewire in your brain as well. It's 100% true. And listen, we will always look for evidence for what we believe. Right. So if we believe that you become invisible after 40, you're going to find ways to prove that to yourself, right? It's called an evidence log. That's what I call it. And so you'll notice every time that you're not noticed, you know, you'll notice the men looking at the younger woman instead of you, even though there might be 10 other men on the other side of the street, looking at you, you'll notice the ones who aren't. So I think, you know, it's been my experience that no matter what the story is that you're telling yourself, you can also rewrite it and find evidence that that story is true as well. And so that's really what we're trying to highlight with rewritten, even the way we name the products. Our first product is called show the face up. Because every time you see it on your counter, I want it to be a reminder. Like let's not rewrite, let's not tell ourselves the story that we're becoming invisible. Let's remember that it's time to show the face up. Right. So I think it's ultimately, it becomes a choice. And listen, there's no wrong choice either. Like I just want to put that out there for women who are like, I kind of want to grow old gracefully, like do that. That's totally okay. I do not. I do not. And I'm looking for a solution to help, you know, exactly. I'm not in that boat. I do all the other things. And I love it. I love it. And I enjoy it. So if you don't enjoy it, like I actually just had a call with a woman, because I'm raising money right now. And she's like, okay, well, I'm so not into this type of thing. I'm actually like so like I hate it. But I love like what you're doing. And I was like, you hate like I couldn't even understand her brain. She was so sweet and amazing. But like she's like, I haven't worn makeup for 15 years. I don't want to. Yeah. Like is she so what's interesting is that though, in that though, is she has found so much value in her like she loves herself. But she's found so much value in some other areas in her life. So it's actually a really fun conversation that was like, Oh, it's okay to like see these two dichotomies of like, no, she's like, do you really love doing this? I'm like, I love it. Yeah. Like I love like beauty stuff. I just, I mean, I was like, you know, four years old with baby dolls, like doing their hair, like, no, this is like so fascinating to me. Like the beauty industry of everything. So well, I just love beautiful things. You I mean, I mean, you're beautiful, right? Thank you. Of course, you live in. No, it's just, I think it's a reflection of standards that you have for yourself. Like I don't know how you feel, but I feel like how you do one thing is how you do everything. Right. And so if I can drink from a glass, I want it to be a really beautiful glass, as opposed to a solo cup. If we were taking from solo cups to be a very different experience, we did that already, girlfriend. We don't have to go back to those were the parties we went to. Oh, those were the days. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So this is a skincare line is like totally outside of what you've done before. Yeah, I know. Why are you I why am I like this? That's like one of the things that I wanted to ask you because I'm finding myself, you know, my, my world that that's same with me. It was like a totally different world. And this is such a departure for me, that I'm finding myself people like, Oh my God, this is gonna be so great. And you're so great at this and you're great at everything. I'm like, no, I'm not at all. I'm not either. I'm such a newbie. I'm in a lot of discomfort. I'm in a lot of pain. I'm actually in a lot of self doubt, a lot. I'm really back to the root of like, trying to remember all the things that I did in the beginning to become successful in the beginning. Like it's a full on flip your world upside down. I'm not sure why I did this at the age that I'm at right now. But I also know it's part of why I'm I'm gonna love who I am continuing on and on. So I would love to hear like, what was that decision point of getting into this? What were you in right before this? And what was the decision of getting into a physical product skincare line? Yeah. Well, first of all, can we just give credence to what you said? Because I think it's so important to honor the conversation that's not being had. Because I think that people look at you or maybe they look at me probably more look at you and say, wow, everything is just easy for her. Everything comes so easily. Like she gets up, she has this beautiful podcast, this amazing business, this great marriage and man, like she's just on easy street. And I don't think enough people talk about how difficult it is one to start over in your 40s in a brand new industry and wake up every day not knowing what the fuck you were thinking and also not knowing what you're doing. Like every single day feeling bad at everything. It's the worst. It's literally the worst, especially for someone and I feel like you're the same way, maybe not. But for me, I like being good at things. Yes. And I've spent a really long time being really good at what I do. Yeah. Right. Like so good. I could do it in my sleep. Same. So to answer your question, like I've run a health coaching school now for 16 years. I don't even teach in the school. It runs. It's great. It's amazing. Which is great because it's funded by the skincare line and I don't have to show up in it anymore, which is a beautiful thing. So it gives me more free time. But I'm really great at that, right? Certification. Like I got this. I'm so good. But something new like this. I mean, why did I go into the most competitive industry where there's 100 products launched every day trying to do the exact same thing? And I don't know anything about it, right? Like why did I do that? And I think it's because once that happened on my 40th birthday, I couldn't not do it. Like, I don't know if you feel that way about Glossy, but I just thought, this is crazy. And I have a daughter, right? So she's 15. And I thought I have got to rewrite this narrative by the time she's in my position. It breaks my heart to think that she would feel like at 40, her best years are behind her. And then just seeing the most powerful women I know buy into this narrative was just no longer an option. So I had to. I had to do it. So tell me about the process because there's people who are in something and they're like, oh my god, I have this. I just had someone voice, don't mean idea yesterday. And they're like, oh my god, should I do this? This feels insane. But like my whole body saying I should do it. Tell me a little bit about, you know, when you knew you wanted to do it. And then what your formulation process kind of looked like because I think the biggest question that I get from a lot of people is they're like, how did you know who to formulate with? How did you know about your packaging? How did you know? I'm like, I didn't know shit. Like I before this was before chat, like right before. So Google, I googled everything and I just like winged so much of this. It's scary. Yeah. So what did your process look like? It's the same. Like we didn't I didn't know anything. I had I had a physical product company before. Okay, so I knew a little bit about physical products. But the funny thing was when we sold that company, I swore that I would never do another physical product. And what was that one again? It was called SoCal Clean. Okay, it was the first and only for a long time certified organic detox program because I thought I saw these detox programs and that was part of my own personal journey. I had a crazy health story which got me into nutrition and the core way I did that was through a detox. But as I looked around on the market, like you satisfy your own needs, right? For sure. I thought why are we detoxing with products that aren't organic? Yeah, that are the toxins. Make it make sense. And so I created that line because I was like, this is crazy. We have to fix this. But swore I would never go back into it. I'm like, I'm selling education. I'm selling information because of everything. I mean, I know. I tell everyone. Packaging returns. Yeah, like formulation changes. You can't get an ingredient. All of a sudden, it's out of stock. At the time, hemp was illegal here in the US. And so we had to import it from Canada. So sometimes it would get stuck at customs. Oh, God, we were waiting on this huge batch of with just so much money tied up in money. You're relying on it's crazy because in products, you are relying on so many other people and so many things to go right. Cynthia, I can't even think about sometimes when like my products getting shipped. I'm like, bless the truck. Bless the driver. Bless the road. Bless that pothole. Who's the person packing the bags? Yeah, it's true though. You really do. I think it is an ultimate less than in getting up control that and having children. But that's a whole other thing that we want to go into. But yeah, it's hard. And I don't know about for you, but I the product that I started out with is not the same product I ended up with. Same. Really? Yeah. This was a light wine spritzer and non-alcoholic rosé. Stop it. Mine was a CBD product. So many reflects. There was so many. It was so much laws that I couldn't jump through the hoops. Yeah. And legal. I just drained my like drained the accounts and legal fees that I was like, we got it. Yeah, we got we're out. We got a pivot. CBD. Hi, that was damn. Yeah. No, so there were so many pivots. There were so many. I can't tell you like even down to manufacturing, we signed with the manufacturer. We came to the point where we had to we were right there from suing them just to get our money back because they kept putting off the manufacturing. Turns out and this is a big manufacturer. Turns out they were getting ready to file for bankruptcy. So they didn't want to give our money back. So so luckily we got it back. Yeah. And then we started over. And as you know, it's months to manufacture a product. And then the tariffs hit. Yeah. I mean, it's just been one thing after another. But I think to your point, like what do you what do you do? I think you really have to love it. I think you just have to be like, I can't not do this. It has to be something that you're willing every day to just get punched in the face for over and over and over. Or you're not going to do it. You'll give up. Yeah. And it is it's it's like kind of don't want to paint that picture. But that is the picture. But if you love it, you don't you're going to take the punches. It's like people who girls who the all of those memes that pass around and like, where their faces are like disfigured from fighting. And I'm like, do you you just stop? But you must just love it. Yeah. You must. I'm like, I feel that deeply. I feel that way right now. I look like that. I don't look that way. But I keep showing up. Okay. So formulation process, you kind of just found your people figured it out. How are your so for people starting, you know, maybe they don't have a ton of money, but they know they want to do it. Can you talk a little bit about like your did you go big with your minimum order quantities? Like what was the risk you were kind of willing to take in the beginning? Or did you play it a little safer? What does that look like for you? Yeah, I don't I'm not good at safe. And just not good at it. And I wish I were. Yeah, I really do. No, we went big. We were like, if we're going to do this, and they make it so enticing, don't they? To go bigger? Yeah. They'll be like, well, for 100 bottles, it's like $20 a bottle. But if you get 1000, it's like 50 cents. Yeah, not really. But you get it. You're like, okay, but then they're like, if you get 25,000, and you're just like, okay, well, and I knew that I was in it, like I knew I was in for the long haul and we'd invested so much that I almost needed to go big and needed those price breaks, just trusting in me and God in the universe and whatever that I would be able to sell it to make back the money that we had invested and lost. Yeah, until that point. Do you know what I mean? You get it, right? I think I'm on my third purchase, like third, this last purchase order was like, took my breath away. Like, I was like, well, we're really in it. So in there, it's real. It's real accountability, though. It is. But you know what that when you're backed into a corner, that's the way I am. If you back me into a corner, I will fight my way out. I think most entrepreneurs tend to be that way. So I knew if I put myself in a situation where I had just so much to lose, which is by the way, that's another thing that people don't talk about when you're starting a business, when you're in your later ages over 40, right, is at 28, it was very different. At 48, like, I have private school to pay for, you know, there's mortgage, there's aging parents, there's para menopause, and you fucking find your phone in the fridge for no apparent reason. Like, there's so much more to lose. In my 20s, I was just fucking broke. There wasn't much to lose. And so it's not only scary because of the money you put in or the number of times you get punched in the face. It's scary because if you lose it all and have to start over, like, yeah, like where am I going? Am I going to my friend's house to sleep on the couch and like, hi, the reputation I worked so hard to build, am I going to be able to start something again after this? Or is everyone going to not trust anything I do? Right? It's the stakes are super high. And I think, I think people look at it and they don't realize that at all. And I don't want people not to start because I'm just thinking of that right now. Like, I don't turn to everyone off because literally here. So here's where I'm at though now in my in where I'm at. Let's now I've been in the I've been to that place. Yeah, people need to know that exists because I was in that alone for a little bit. And I was like, is anybody else feeling this crazy? Like I've, the stress was like, am I going to get an ulcer? And I'm not even kidding. Like at the cost of, is this going to be at the cost of my health? And so now I'm getting to a place where I'm like, okay, if this doesn't work, which I never do this, like I don't give myself a plan B, but I do what I do have to do is go, can you live with worst case scenario? Yes. And so I have to go visit that. And I'm like, well, you know, if I'm being really honest, like my life was feeling uncomfortable because it was too easy. Like you even said it yourself, like you become really good at, I was so good at things that actually I'm not challenged at all. Yeah. And I did an exercise of a couple years ago and it was like, I wrote down like what actually makes me happy and challenge was like one or two. Yeah. And  and when I'm not challenged, I don't feel like very fulfilled or happy because challenge is learning, challenges growth, challenges forward movement, it's progress. And even though everyone listening to this thinks that you are trying to get an easier life, I woke up in an easy life for quite a few years, and it was the most depressed and anxious I've ever been. Because I just didn't have that pull in that thing that pulled me out of bed every day. It feeds you. You know, when I had a therapist years ago, and I was talking about entrepreneurship and just like what I was going through then, and she said, well, you know, because of your traumatic childhood, which we all have to some extent, let's be honest, she said, you're actually really well equipped to handle a lot more stress than the average person. Have you heard this or read any about this? I haven't read it, but I put it together. Hi. I was like, I think because I went door to door and preached about the Bible and got rejected with shotguns, that I'm actually like, oh, that's cute. You're like, I'm good. Yeah. You said no without a shotgun? Cool. This is so much better than I'm used to. Yeah. So I think I'm just like predisposed to that. You for sure. I do think it's a gift when I went through. I think it's a really great thing. But I also think it is important to talk about the flip side, right? So yes, it's harder. Yes, there's more at stake. Yes, there's so much more to lose. Worst case, you'd be fine. Let's admit it, you would. But the other thing is the good things about it. I am so clear on who I am now and exactly what I'm creating. There's no wishy-washy. I make decisions easily. I know where to put the money. This is not my first time at the business rodeo. So if worst case scenario happens, I know exactly how I would come out of it. I protect my time more fiercely. I negotiate way better, right? Funny story. So I divorced and remarried. But when we were running a business before, my ex-husband, the SoCal Clans with my ex-husband. Oh, yeah. OK. And he used to get on to me all the time because he's like, you have the worst negotiating skills. Like you've got to negotiate. You've got to like tell them you're not going to pay that they need to deliver on this time. And then, Lori, when we got divorced and we were going through that whole thing, he said to me one day, he goes, you're so much better at negotiation now. He's like, dang it. Yeah. He's like, damn, I wish I had to coach you. So he trained his opponent. Yeah. So I'm master negotiator now, right? Yeah. And it's just, I know, I know what matters. I know what my standards are. And so there are a lot of ways it's easier now. Mm hmm. Sense. Oh, yeah. For anyone that doesn't know me, I have started a lot of businesses. And I will tell you that every single one came with so many worries and so many fears, it can be really terrifying because there are so many questions that you don't have the answer to. What if no one listens to my podcast? What if nobody buys my products? And I am so grateful that I have started all of them, especially Glossy, and that I believed in the launch of my products because despite all the fears and hesitations, it also helps when you have a partner like Shopify on your side. And Shopify is what I use for Glossy. So you can get started with your own design studio with hundreds of ready to use templates. Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store that matches your brand style. Accelerate your efficiency, whether you're uploading new products or trying to improve existing ones. Shopify is packed with helpful AI tools that write product descriptions, page headlines, and even enhance your product photography. And what if I get stuck? Shopify is always around to share advice with their award winning 24 seven customer service. It's time to turn those what ifs into with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1 per month trial today at Shopify.com slash happy. Go to Shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. If you're just starting your business or you're looking for a really good foundation in your business, start with Northwest Registered Agent and get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch and protect your business all in one place. Build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow a business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the US with over 1,500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you in your business every step of the way. Build your business identity fast with Northwest Registered Agent and get access to thousands of free resources, forms and step by step guides without even creating an account. Sign up for a free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more all at no cost. Don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest Registered Agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. Are you ready to take your business's marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and CRM platform built to help you connect with customers, boost engagement and grow your business smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all your customer interactions in one place. Nurture leads with their built-in CRM, reach your audience through email and SMS and keep them coming back with powerful automations. But here's where it gets really exciting. Meet Ora, Brevo's AI assistant. Ora helps you craft smarter campaigns by suggesting personalized content, optimizing send times and even analyzing performance data to help you improve your strategy in real time. It's like having a marketing expert on your team 24-7. And of course, Brevo offers advanced analytics, seamless integrations and AI-driven personalization, everything you need to create multi-channel campaigns that hit the mark every time. Get started for free today or use code HAPPY 50 to save 50% on starter and standard plans for the first three months of an annual subscription. Just head to www.brevo.com forward slash happy and take your marketing further with Brevo and Ora. What would you say to the person who is, I mean, in their, I guess it doesn't matter, the woman who thinks she wants to start. Did you have any questions that you asked yourself or things that you tuned into to be like, because there's the kind of the all in moment where you have to be really self-evaluating and asking a lot of questions. Mine took like a year to fully decide. What were some of the things that you went through to get yourself to the 51 plus percent? Yeah. So mine was not, I immediately thought it was crazy. I immediately said, I have to do something about this. Immediately I thought skincare, okay, to find this business immediately. I thought that. And then immediately I was like, that's the demyst idea you've ever, there's just no, it's a hard pass. Because like you said, I was comfortable. I was, I did not need to do this, right? That you knew was coming. Yeah. And I knew because I had been in the physical products. Remember, and I said, I'll never do this again. I said that, Laurie, I said it. And so I really resisted. I did. And the universe has a really funny way when you're meant to do something of saying you're doing it, whether you like it or not, you're doing it. And so little things would was happening. I was really anxious. Didn't know why I was really unhappy and unfulfilled. And I would see the businesses doing well, and that was great. But something was missing. And I would see ads about skincare and I would constantly see what was wrong with them. And so it was a gradual process of looking at and evaluating. Um, and that went fairly quickly, but it took eight years to launch the product. Part of that was changing what the product was. Part of that was manufacturers that didn't work out, formulators, chemists, everything that didn't that we tried that didn't work. Part of it was that. But the other part was me dragging my feet, waiting, wanting to be reassured, you know, just having to step into a brand new identity that was physically uncomfortable for me. Like right before we launched, I remember you talked about like physical things before and the stress and the anxiety. I was having heart palpitations. Now I came from the health and nutrition and fitness industry, you know, similar to you. And I thought I'm going to have a heart attack. This is destroying my health. And I went and had a scan of my heart and I was like, this is going to be it. They're going to say you can't do it. And my doctor was like, nope, 100% clear, zero blockage. And I was like, what? So it's just a mental thing. And so it really was just working every day on rewriting the stories, embracing the new identity one foot in front of the other and then doing everything before I was ready. Let's talk about the actual, if you can share some of the, you know, you had to rewrite an identity. What was that identity for you? Like what was the fear that took the eight years? And then even around, if you can go back to thinking about like going into the doctor, why do you think that you were under that stress? Like what were the actual thoughts that were going through and how did you work through that? Well, I was known as a lot of things. A founder of this really successful health coaching school, a best selling author, a celebrity nutritionist. I was the official nutritionist for revenge body with Chloe Kardashian for all three seasons and had worked with a ton of big names had done every TV show, been in Forbes, been in Vogue, done all of the things, lot of identities. But this identity of being a skincare founder wasn't one of them. Right. And a lot of it was my ego. Cause I thought, well, what if I'm not good at this and what if I fail? And then what will they say? You know, kind of like what you talked about earlier. And I'm a person who I don't give a fuck what people think about me. Right. And I've been that way for a while. I wasn't always that way. Like it was used to be really insecure. Used to be a people pleaser. So this really messed with my head. Right. But I didn't care what people thought because I was so sure of who I was. But now that I'm switching my identity, all of a sudden that came back. And if I fail, I mean, really, like I'm known for coming from extreme poverty, taking a bath in a creek because we didn't have running water to making over a hundred million dollars. And what if I lose it all? You know, like what? What? And that was really hard to stomach. That was very scary. I was all caught up in this old identity of being good. Oh, I mean, it's an ego death. I am. Oh my God. I mean, I'm literally fully this company has made me go through multiple for sure. I'm fully in one right now. Same. Fully. Same. I'm waking up in the middle of the night just like, but it's all it's all ego. But aren't isn't a little OK, same. Yeah. Still having the heart palpitations still having them every day. I think it's all going to end. Yeah, going to be broke and living in, you know, an apartment and whatever. But aren't you also a little bit excited? Very. Right. It's just when you're in the eye of the storm sometimes and I know the eye of the storm can sometimes they can last long. Sometimes they can be really short. Sometimes they can come and go. The thing that I think I want people to know is if you're going to do something big, you're going to be here. I've been here before. You have been here before. Many times. Like I woke up last night and I'm like, oh, here it is. OK, been here before. Yeah. OK, how do we, you know, what are we thinking in our head right now? Are we thinking worst case scenario? OK, how about one of the things that's really been helping me is I'm like, OK, how about if everything works out? OK, how about how would I be feeling in my body right now? If I really believed God had the plan already. Yeah. And I like noticed I just like totally let go and I was like, oh, interesting. And of course, then you tense up again five minutes later. And then you say it again and you go through that process. And like these are such I already sitting across from you already feel like I know so much about you just from everything that you've said. And also I recognize so much of myself in you. Yeah. And we don't get to know the full potential of the undeniable women that we are both here to be and that we are striving to be and that by the end of our life, we want to look back and say we did it. We don't get to meet her or become her without these moments. Amen. And it's it's like that's what I have to keep remembering is an easy life. I just then I just put what I did and, you know, I'm happy with the challenges in the past and now everything else is just kind of reflecting back at what I did. Yeah. And I don't want that. Yeah. I want to always be wrapped up in what I'm doing. I talk about this with my husband a lot. I don't I don't want to be the football player who peaked in high school. And now that's all they talk about with their friends about how they went to the state championship. Do you know what I mean? For sure. Yeah. My husband and I talk about this a lot. And the reason I bring up excitement earlier is in those moments that night. Why is it always like three o'clock in the morning? Three thirty. I'll wake up and it's like, well, did this thing get sent out or something like shit? Oh, so then I do some shots of no, I don't. I thought about it, but I haven't got to that point yet. But I think for me, it is constantly rewriting the story and it's flipping the script to where I look at all the things I'm really excited about. You're like, yes, these things may be true, but what if, like you said, what if the best thing happens? And I see the excitement for the woman getting the product for remembering who the fuck she is and being like, yes, 40, 50, 60. What a number, you know? And I think about the confidence and the power and what she'll do in the world because of that and the lives that she'll touch because of that. And then I get, you know, I get selfish and I think I can't wait to be in Forbes for this product. I can't wait to, you know, have the money and take care of my daughter and just have this life set up for her because the intention is very much to sell the company we're building it to sell. And so I think about the exciting parts. And I'm just learning to rewrite the stories and to just play. Like when I was younger and more inexperienced, I thought all these negative thoughts were just horrible and I would try to stop them. And I realized that we all have this storyteller in us. Like I named mine Rosemary. Rosemary's baby, you know, literally the devil. So she's Rosemary and Rosemary, she'll say the craziest shit to me at three in the morning. I'm telling you, but I just talked to her and I say, Rosemary, listen, I know you've been through some shit. We've been through some shit together, but things are actually okay now. I'm feeling pretty good about this. So I want to just let you go. And I know you're here to come and look out for me and keep me from doing the crazy shit, but I got this now. So thank you. And you have to stop. Yeah. Get some sleep. You've got to stop. Right. And so it's just more of this playing and connecting with that other part of me that scared little girl. He's afraid of losing it all and going back to the dumpster days, you know, and I'm finding that to be comforting. Yeah. I think, you know, you're just bringing some things up for me that people, even around who've had some trauma and like you said, everybody has had it. And we're also all humans. So we're deeply obviously wired for survival. And so when you're coming out of a situation where your family was survival, but they weren't survival, where you're actually fleeing from what should be your survival. And I feel like you and I probably got really good with people. And what happens is then you think that people liking you as your survival. Yes. And so when your reputation is at stake, now I'm unwinding, I'm untangling the necklace as one of my really close friends says of like my belief that if people don't like me, it's like my survival is threatened deeply. Yeah. And so I think that's what I'm on. That's the identity I'm untangling right now is that I've worked so hard to build up a reputation where I'll be safe because if my reputation is high, then my safety is high. Yeah. And so I'm all in on something that could take my reputation down for a hot second. I don't fully believe that. Yeah. Some people will be disappointed, you know, if that's something that would happen, but so many people don't even notice. Yeah. Do you know how many friends I've had whose companies have tanked or they've lost millions of dollars and it's, it's like everyone forgets it. Yeah. Especially men. I'm like, I read so many biographies where I'm reading Burn the Boats right now, but I think it's Mark Higgins. Yeah. And he's like, yeah. So I lost $260 million. And then I started this other company and now he's like a billionaire. And I'm like, but tell me more about when you were losing the money. You gave me more money. That's what I want to know. You yourself, who gave you more? How did you come back? Like, yeah, important things or women are never going to go for it. Yeah. So I actually love this conversation because I think they need, I think more of us need to know, I think women are not going for it and we're not getting the confidence now because we think we have to win on this one. Yeah. I agree. And men do not feel that way. They're like, it might not be this one. It might be my third one, but somehow someone's going to give me even more money. And I'm like, how can I get a like a brain transplant from whatever you have going on up there? Yeah. And I do think it is like detaching a little bit. I think we're so attached, like detaching a bit from like what we're doing and knowing it's important and that it's a dream and we can go for it, but kind of detaching from this like belief that we're not going to be good, worthy or okay if somebody fails. It's so good. I think it also is getting clear on what you're attached to. Right. So yours is people liking you. Yeah. I'm just thinking about this now because I don't, I've never said this before. Um, mine is status slash respect. Cause it's the one thing I didn't. Yeah. I didn't hide that. You know, I was made fun of and bullied and because of the way I looked and dressed and smelled all the things. Yeah. That's really important to me. So if I fail and people don't respect me, shatters my identity and the money, you know, cause that was the other thing. I think I know my biggest fear more than even losing respect is losing money. It's losing everything. Again, not that I really believe this like you said earlier, but it's that. That's, I think it just drives me in some might say a very unhealthy way. But I just want to ever go back there. I think there's just something in the mindset of people who come from poverty, who will do whatever it takes. Never go back. Yeah. And there's not a, I'm actually good. Now I have enough. It's never enough. Yeah. Which is crazy and doesn't feel good to say out loud, but it's true. Yeah. I think that's just people aren't saying it because it's a big driver to never go back for sure. Yes. I might, my parents went through bankruptcy when I was a kid and I was like, yes, I feel that deeply. Okay. I want to hear about the undeniable audiobook. Yeah. People are loving it. Yeah. And then also within that you talk about the living brand. Yeah. And we were just saying like it's January 2026. It is a very different time. I watched every, we were, we work with a lot of entrepreneurs. We have multiple businesses. Everything changed last year. Everything. It's changed. It's very different right now. So let's talk about living brand first year audiobook though. Yeah. Yeah. The audiobook is called undeniable and I made it free because I just think people need it and it's, it's a different take on what most people are doing. So I saw that too. Also had a lot of friends who said I had my worst year ever. The world changed. Yeah. Of course business changed. Like of course it did. And a lot of people are struggling. You know, now there's chat GPT. Nobody wants to buy a course anymore when they can get it for free on YouTube. Or chat GPT or whatever. And so I think it's a very different world that we live in. And I hear people talking about building a personal brand. And I think, yes, that can be true. But what I've always done is built a living brand. And it's a very different concept. And I realized as I'm talking to friends just like you who were going through this that people don't do it this way. And so I thought, OK, let me put this all together and show people how to win. Because again, I've made over a hundred million dollars and I still have less than 40,000 followers on Instagram. Right. So it's not about being undeniable and viral and world famous. It's about being undeniable to the right people. And how do you find that? And how do you stand out? And so when we talk about a personal brand, we're talking about you. Right. We're talking about Lori and how she's smart. And she's funny. And she has this knowledge and she brings these things to the table and she sells things based on her. She monetizes herself and uses her audience to do that. And that's great. But you hit a limit with that. And now you're trading dollars for hours and hours for dollars and all of the things. And so a living brand is different. A living brand is where you actually become proof of your transformation. Like a personal brand, it is who we are, but we also create it. Right. The colors, we pick the logo, we pick that I help X do Y. So that Z statements. But a living brand is where you are literally living proof of your transformation. Right. And that's what people buy because they see you living it and they know you can give it to them. So the way this came about for me is I started over 20 years ago in the nutrition business. I'd gone through a crazy health struggle, found my own way through it, thought I want to help other people with this. But when it came time to brand myself as a nutritionist or nutrition coach, I lived in Los Angeles and there was a nutritionist on every corner. And I tried to price myself competitively. I got the credentials after my name. I try to write the fancy bio and third person. People would take me seriously. Right. And it didn't work. And I was struggling and I was broke and I was like, shit, what do I do? How do you stand out? And I think a lot of people today are going through that. And so I had a trainer friend and he called me one day and he said, hey, I'm with a client of mine, just this really wealthy client. And I she's looking for a nutritionist. She's talked to a lot of people, hasn't found anyone that she liked. I told her about you and your story. I showed her your website so she could see you and what you look like, whatever. And she wants to meet. Can you come and meet with her? I was like, yes. Like literally anytime, any place. Yeah. And so I go there and it's one of those really nice buildings on Wilshire. And I walk in and the concierge was there and he takes me up on the elevator. It opens on her floor. Right. And I get out and I rehash my story to her, just tell her. And she said, that's exactly what I've been through. You've done it. I want you to help me. And I was like, great. And she said, amazing, you're hired. Where's your office? I didn't have one. I didn't have an office. Yeah. I was like, I was meeting people at the park or at a Starbucks. Lori, I was the worst. And so I said, oh, I actually don't work that way. I think you come up with something. Brilliant. Yeah. So I don't work that way. I said, I actually do this. I come to you and that way I can see your kitchen and your supplements and how you're living and it's highly personalized. And she said, I love that. Is that an extra cost? And I said, no, it's included in your rate. Fucking I know. I'm literally making this shit up as I go. And she said, great, well, what's your rate? Oh, I know. Like just give me five minutes. But I look around and I'm like, if I tell her, she's going to think I'm a joke. Because I've been trying to compete at the lowest rate. We compete on price. That's a quick race to the bottom. And so I forexed it and told her and she said, amazing, can you come tomorrow? I was like, I can. So later I'll make this short. And later my friend called and he said that was great. Like I have other clients that would hire you. And then he said, like, what do you call this? Like, what is the how do I describe it? Because you do it differently. And I remembered walking into the building wanting to be on that. And I said, concierge nutrition just made that shit up. The point is I was a living brand. I became proof of my transformation and I told her my story and that's why she wanted it. But then I created a category of one. I made up this term called concierge nutrition. Yeah. And I was the only one doing it. And I positioned it for people that I wanted to work with. People who could pay me, who could pay me really well, who wanted the thing that most people didn't have access to, right? And who wanted that special high touch service of me coming to them in a city like Los Angeles and it crushed it. And so that's the difference between a personal brand and a living brand. It's creating this category of one where no one competes with you. Now, the way this plays out is that method of nutrition that I created. I coined that transformation on nutrition and then later created the Institute of Transformation and Nutrition and that's my health coaching school. So that's what's funded everything. I don't work in that school very much on a day to day basis and haven't in years. So a personal brand, you're monetizing you, a living brand. You're just the living proof that you can get the results. And then you have this method, this IP or this product that can then be sold independently of you. I love that. It's scalable. Does that make sense? So some of the things that I've been most successful in is because I'm like, well, that's what I did. I was the living proof of this network marketing company that I used. And then I got other people. I got the clients who then became more proof. And it just took off of a life of its own. Truly is what ended up happening because it was so in me. It was like something so like how your skincare is now. It's just who you are. It's in you. It's what you're creating. Totally. How important do you think? Because I'm really seeing this all over now with the brands that are doing well. Is they do name their things like they kind of name all of the different methods that they do or they name these in ways that are very clear and concise. And it says what they are and it's not cute, meaning like concierge nutrition is cute, but it's also so clear what it is. Yeah, it's like going to be personalized. It's going to be top level and it's going to feel like it's coming to you. Whatever you need. It's always important to be clear over clever. Clear over cute. Like I see a lot of things I see like champagne clients. I'm like, do they buy champagne? Do you meet up and drink champagne? Do they pay you to drink? I don't know what that means, right? It's really hard to distill that. So I think naming is super important. I think it's really important to be clear. I also think that this idea of trying to be better is a quick race to the bottom. You cannot keep trying to compete to be better. You have to be different. And that's one thing that I see is that I see people creating personal brands and you can't create a personal brand. You discover a personal brand, right? It's just in you. It's who you are. But when people create these personal brands instead of being a living brand, they just end up looking like everybody else. Everyone's using chat GPT. Everyone sounds the same. Everyone picks up on the latest term of the moment and they all start to use it. It's all the same language. They dress the same. They look the same and that sameness just makes you invisible, right? Which is undeniable. It's like you go from invisible to impossible to ignore. So, yeah, it's just a much bigger opportunity that people aren't latching onto. So how do we tell me just a little bit about the process? So you're like, you know, if you're creating a personal brand that looks very much like you're picking your colors, you're choosing what you're going to talk about. Oh, you keep on. We keep saving these reels because.  and all of the things, how do we create from within, rather than consuming? Well, that's exactly it. You create from within, right? So I'll give you a couple more examples, because I just think they illustrate it so well. So I was speaking at a closed group, women entrepreneurs, I guess about a year and a half, two years ago. And I spoke about how to create a certification, because people at courses aren't working. I want to create a certification. I'm really good at it. I've done it now for many years. I've made millions of dollars doing it. It's a turnkey process for me. So I spoke about it. I gave them the steps, and I said, if you want, I can help you do it. And somebody said, how much? And I threw out a number that made sense to me. I closed $250,000 in an hour with no sales page, and the program wasn't even named. Not because, like, I'm not a sales person, but I'm not a sales person. I'm not a sales person, but because, like, I'm just amazing or they were desperate. But because I was living proof, I am certifications. It's what I'm known for. It's what I'm done. So people want proximity to someone who's done the thing. Like, you're the expert on it, right? So I'm coming to you. An example is, you know, Kylie Jenner decided one day that she wanted lips. So she didn't get lip filler. She got lip filler. Right, exactly. She did the thing. And people are like, that's amazing. What colors? How do you line them? This is great. So she launched a lip kit and it sold out because of course it did because this is what she was known for. Kim Kardashian and love them or hate them. Yeah. You can't deny them. For sure. Which is the core underlying of being undeniable. Like, love or hate, you can't deny. And so Kim was always, it was her figure that put her front and center, right? Her shape. She would get photographed with her spanks showing and she didn't make any secrets about that. So when she launched skims, people were like, of course. Yeah, of course she was. Yeah, of course. So just to pose that against something like same family, Kendall, right? Kendall Jenner launches a tequila company. She wasn't known for tequila. Like we didn't see her throwing back shots. I mean, look at her. She looks amazing. Like she would never drink, right? The sales haven't been near what the lip kits or skims, right? It's a very different thing. And so that's a key difference and a key illustration of being a living brand. Like Jennifer Lopez creating a drink company, like a spirits company, just tanked because she had always spoken out against drinking. So it's like, wait, doesn't, do you see what I mean? For sure. You have to be living proof of the thing that you're great at. And some people don't even know what that is. And so they go out and try to create a business instead of just becoming the thing that they do effortlessly. Oh my gosh. Are there in the book, is there exercises that you do or is there ways to figure out what that is? Because some people really, they have great things about them. Even me sometimes I'm like, wait, what am I great at? Oh gosh, because you do it. Yeah. You don't realize people would want that from you. Because it's just a part of you. Or even if you do think they want it, you're like, man, man seems too easy, right? Like I've been, I've treated my skin like it's an Olympic sport. For years, right? And it looks that way. Thank you. Like it's flawless. I'm like, it's a lot of time and money. It's my skincare. Actually a lot of it is. But I would be around friends and they would just want that. And I would be teaching business or, you know, the important stuff. They're just staring at your skin. And they'd be like, what do you, like what primer do you, whatever. And they're like, I know you're talking about something else, but I can't stop staring at your face. I was like, well, it's this ingredient. It's this ingredient. And then you do this thing. But that was so easy for me, right? And so then the birthday kicked everything off and I was like, okay, clearly I'm going to do this. So then I did it thinking, okay, but will they actually buy it? And then we sold out our first run in under 48 hours. So it's like, so affirming in the best way. I was so nervous. Like I was so scared. We opened cart and I was like, sweet Jesus, don't fail me now. Like people, people, you don't know, even though she has this house, you don't know if you're going to get four sales, 400, forth that you don't, there's no way to tell you can do, you can do the list building, you can do a wait list. And you still don't know. But that's the other part, right? And why I didn't take it seriously, because people would say your skin looks great. If you bought it, if you had a product, I'd buy it. So then when I created the product, I was like, would you really exactly actually though? Cause it comes easy to me, but would you actually pay for it? And they said, yeah, yeah, yeah. And so you don't know until the cart opens. And then when they do, you're like, oh, and then you're like, I've been making things so hard. Oh, yeah. I could have done this from the beginning. Yeah. You know? So yeah. Okay. So tell us more about where we can get the product. But even like, I just want to dive deeper because I want you to remind, like I, I'm using it right now. I love it, but I love learning more so I can make sure I keep using it. Okay. So I'm killing my, I'm killing my zombies. And what else is that doing? Can I use it as a moisturizer? I know I asked you that because I don't like, I'm not really a serum girl. I told you that like I'll try them and I'm like, I don't really love it. This one's sticky. This one doesn't feel very hydrating. It just feels like water. But I really love yours cause it almost can, it almost feels like it's a really light moisturizer to me. Hopefully that's okay to say, but that's what it's doing. Yeah. So remind me why I need to be using this every day. Yeah. So, and that's a lot of what you're saying is exactly what we designed it for. And we also designed it for busy women cause I don't know about you, but I had like, again, Olympic skin over here. Right. So like 12 step skincare routine. And so we wanted to make it really simple. So the first thing that we wanted to do was get rid of the zombie cells. Okay. Great. We did that. Then we wanted to add in ingredients that moisturize because as you age, your skin starts to get drier. Everything starts to get drier. And so we wanted to put in some different molecular levels of hyaluronic acid. Okay. Pull in the moisture and lock it in. We also know that your barrier starts to be destroyed as you get older, collagen starts to break down. So we put in barrier support for that to lock in all the moisture to protect that glow. Right. And then some really functional things like as you age and really at any age, but especially as you age, your skin gets drier and starts to kind of sloth off and that can cause adult acne. So you put a salicylic acid in. So essentially it is a four in one product replacement. Yeah. And we formulated it so they all work together, which is really key because if you get different products from different lines or even the same line, they're not manufactured to work together. So they're not balanced. So a lot of times you can actually do more harm than good with different ingredients that you're pairing because you don't know how they interact with each other and on your skin. Okay. Right. So that's why we formulated it to really be an all in one. We have a makeup artist who are using it as a primer for makeup, moisturizing, like you said, is a big thing for our customers. Yeah. So that's the glow that comes from within, which is this unique blend of oils that we put in to really soothe the skin is another reason. So. Well, I'm so excited because I am. I'm an easy skincare girl. Like it's got to be easy. Yeah, same. Oh my gosh. I get all the same. So many other complicated things in my life and you know, I'm like really into body and fitness that I'm like this has to be easy. Yeah. And it's also very clean, which we don't talk about because I feel like that's just table stakes now, but it's very, very clean. You can put it through the, you know, ingredients database for clean cosmetics and we come out on top. So you don't have to worry about toxins or we made it very safe for hormones. So if people are on hormone replacement therapies or again at any age, it doesn't interfere with that. So we made sure to really test all of the angles and think about the bigger picture when it comes to your whole person. I love it. It feels really good. The bottle is beautiful. It even looks beautiful. Like the product, the actual product is beautiful. It's just a really, I will say it's I get so much skincare stuff because when I go to events and just my closet and we have a lot of. We work with a lot of people. So they give us a lot of stuff. Yeah. I will say like I have been using yours and I really love it. And it looks beautiful under my makeup. So I'm grateful. So you guys put this all in the show notes so that you can I've linked the product below so you can find it super easily and that you can go follow. But thank you so much for coming on the show. Thanks for having me. Yeah, such a great conversation. I feel like we have so much background and comments. So I appreciate you. Yeah, thanks for having me. I appreciate you. Absolutely.