Get ready to hear about the deals from our sponsors. This episode of Earn Your Happy is sponsored in part by SY El Neutra, LinkedIn, Talent Solutions, Open Phone, and Shopify. And we have got awesome deals for you. SLY is saving on eSIMS even more. Get a global or regional plan and travel with the same eim. Get an exclusive 15% off discount on sale eim data plans. Go to s.com/happy. Download the SY app and use code happy at the checkout plan. El Nutra kickstart a health plan that truly works. Get 15% off sitewide plus a $40 bonus gift with a subscription to the 5day nutrition program. Claim your offer now at prolonlife.com/happy. LinkedIn talent solutions. Find out why more than 2.5 million small businesses use LinkedIn for hiring today. Find your next great hire on LinkedIn. Post your job for free at linkedin.comqualifiedfree. Terms and conditions apply. And open phone. Open phone is the number one business phone system. And build stronger customer relationships and respond faster with shared numbers, AI, and automation. Get 20% off for your first six months when you go to openphone.com/earn. And finally, Shopify. Shopify is the global commerce platform that helps you grow your business. Sign up for $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/happy. It is so normal to feel freaked out by the things that you want to do. Life comes with a range of emotions and feelings for a reason. It's because you are supposed to be dancing in them and experiencing them and not rejecting them. So, it's okay to not feel okay. Hey everyone, welcome back to the podcast. It's time for another quickie because there's always time to fit in inspiration. And I am getting ready right now actually for backtoback masterminds. One of them is one that I'm going to with a bunch of women that we actually put together. Oh my gosh, I think it's been like two years now. And talk about creating what you wish existed. Lindsay Schwarz and I, who's one of my best friends, she and I were sitting around like we always do yapping probably some wine involved. Maybe a martini for me, a bees knees, and maybe some maybe some rosé for her most likely. And we were talking about how we just really want more intimate highlevel friendships, like women that feel intimidating to hang out with. And somehow the two of us talking about it together feels so much better. You know how you like you have your girlfriend that you like feel like you have superpowers around. I literally feel like I'm freaking 10 ft tall and could do anything when I'm around her because I don't even know why. Like it's probably delusional, but she just like pumps me up, man. I just like get so much confidence around her. And that's when you know you've got a great friend is when you feel like you can literally do anything, especially together. So I was like, "Ooh, okay." Okay. So, I feel much more confident asking these people to get together if we ask together cuz then it's like mutual destruction. It's like mutual rejection if you get rejected. It's like, was it me? Was it you? Was it both of us? Doesn't matter. Like, we don't need to know cuz we're together and we're fine. And so, that's that's kind of how it started is we were like, "Okay, who would we want to ask?" And you know, there's a million people we'd love to ask, but who do we kind of know? Who do we kind of already have relationships with? who do we feel like would be some, you know, someone who could really really uplevel us? And like I said, there's a ton of people, but we had to we had to start somewhere. And also, we wanted to keep the group small because whenever the groups have gotten big, which I love, man. I I wish there could be a bazillion people in it, but I never get to drop in with people. And that was a really big thing for me. That was one of the things that I didn't want when I wanted to start a group was I didn't want it to be so big that I never really got to know people because the group was huge. Anyway, that's the first mastermind that I'm going to tomorrow morning. And then the second one, so I come home, I come back, first mastermind's in Santa Barbara and then I come back to host the elite entrepreneurs mastermind with Chris Monday through Thursday. And Chris has had that now for eight years. This is the first year that I am joining. I think it's been 8 years, seven. Oh my god, it might be. I think it is eight years. This is the first year that I am hosting with him. And I wanted to share that like for both of these masterminds and for anything big and worthwhile doing in life, like I still get butterflies. I still get nervous. Like I feel like even walking into the mastermind that is quite literally our own that we filled that people come to for obviously the group and for us and to learn and all the things I still get intimidated because I think it's just natural to not only get intimidated by knowing that you want to perform and be your best for these people. Like let me tell you, when you create something that you really really get excited about that you know is going to make a a big impact and level people up, it levels you up in the process. So, not only do these people come and grow, but I grow exponentially from the room, from them, from preparing for it, from thinking about it, from wanting to teach the best lessons, from wanting to be fully present, from wanting to make people feel important and special with each and every interaction, from trying to remember names of everyone. Like, you will level up. And this will cause you to feel some anxiety. This will cause you to feel some doubt. This will cause you to to be like, "Oh my god, I pray that this delivers on everything." And it will for everyone. Meaning, especially if you if you're doing this and you're in the same situation, especially if you have those butterflies and anxiety, it probably means that it's keeping you really sharp and you're not going to miss things. And so that is the reminder that I want with this podcast today for you guys is to always know that it is so normal to feel freaked out by the things that you want to do. In fact, I would argue that the things that you want to do could bring even more pressure and nerves because even with this big like with this mastermind that we're so freaking excited about and that we have like dreamt of having this successful of a track record and mastermind and have these elite entrepreneurs who are seven and eight figure earners. like this is mindblowing that we all get together and get to watch businesses really grow. Maybe it's um a foundational year for you where you're really internally working on your team, working in your business, like you are, you know, revamping everything. You're getting your infrastructure just totally dialed in or you already have that, you've had that really foundational year and now you're ready to scale. And so it's beyond thrilling to be a part of these things. It's beyond thrilling to be in these rooms, but also it's intimidating for everyone because we're all like, you know, we're walking in like in trench coats with no clothes on underneath. No, we're not actually doing that, by the way, but that's how it feels. And we're all like, look at me exposing ourselves and our businesses. Like, oh my god, it's like exposing your whole soul. That's what it feels like. Look at my here's here's where I'm at. Here's my numbers. Here's what's going on. because you don't get to grow if you don't say where you're really at in that is scary. So, if we're walking into these rooms and we're like, "Yeah, I'm not nervous." But you're staying tight lipped and you're not saying where you're at and you're like, "Everything's good. Everything's great." You're going to leave that year or that thing or that event or that moment or that phone call or that opportunity in an elevator, whatever it is, with a mentor. You're going to leave unchanged. So yes, we should feel nervous because we're about to go and do some things that put us on display that make us nervous. But it is the rooms that you want to be in that make you feel that way. So nothing worth doing will usually feel good. And I think that that is the whole thing about life is like normalizing that feeling good is not the norm. It's just not like even if you love your life, you're probably growing in multiple ways. You're probably someone who really works out all the time. You're probably someone who helps a lot of different people. And that probably doesn't feel great. I'm not saying that your life sucks. I'm not saying you are depressed. I'm saying that good like feeling happy every day is not something we should be striving for. Okay. Okay, so something that Chris and I are always talking about is how to really separate our business hours from the hours that we're off. And it's a really hard thing to do when you're a business owner because your phone is where everything is operated. So you might have some downtime and you're feeling good and all of a sudden you get something that throws you off because it's workrelated and you just weren't in that mode. And let me tell you, Open Phone is the number one business phone system that is going to help you separate your personal life from your growing business. You guys, this is so important to learn to do. And for just $15 a month, the cost of a few coffees, you get complete transparency and visibility into everything happening with your business phone number. Open Phone works through an app on your phone or computer, and integrates with HubSpot and hundreds of other systems. They use AI powered call transcripts and summaries, so you'll have a summary of your phone call with action items as soon as you hang up. And if you miss a call, automated messages are sent directly to your customer, meaning you're never going to miss an opportunity to engage with them. They're going to feel thought about. It's affordable and easy to use. Whether you're a one person operation and need help managing calls automatically or have a large team and need better tools for efficient collaboration, Open Phone is a nobrainer. Right now, Open Phone is offering 20% off your first six months when you go to openphone.com/earn. That's op ho ne.com/earn for 20% off six months. openphone.com/earn. And if you have existing numbers with another service, open will port them over at no extra charge. So, if you're growing a business like I am, you probably have a lot of calls booked every single month with different people learning how to grow and scale your business in different ways. And I had that call today with someone who really understands Tik Tok shop. And one of the cool things that I'm so grateful for is that I went with Shopify because there's always an easy integration with any type of marketing platform that I want to use. Whether it's an affiliate software or whether it's something like Tik Tok shop, Shopify easily integrates with them. So, it's not a massive headache when I want to go try new things in my company. So you guys can also upgrade your business and get the same checkout that we use with Shopify. You can sign up for your $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/happy. That's all lowercase. Go to shopify.com/happy to upgrade your selling today. Shopify.com/happy. I'm telling you, it's one of my favorite platforms because it's so easy. It's streamlined and I actually understand it. I get excited to log into my Shopify every single day and look at all of the data on my customer and in my company. You guys go check it out. I think feeling fulfilled when your head hits the pillow. I think feeling like you had quality relationships that day and conversations that day. I feel like feeling like you did quality work feels really good. But I don't think that going for this euphoric happy is where we should put all of our energy because I think we're going to be sorely disappointed if we think that we are supposed to feel that way all of the time because life comes with a range of emotions and feelings for a reason. It's because you are supposed to be dancing in them and experiencing them and not rejecting them. So it's okay to not feel okay. It's okay to not feel okay as long as you are feeling like you're doing some of the things that you really want to be doing and showing up that the way that you want to be showing up. So you guys, I am sending you so much love. And also, of course, I have to tell you that you can use the code happy to get 25% off of Glossy, which you guys know is my absolute pride and joy that I'm obsessed with that I have to take two to three of every single day, especially right now because I'm going into these masterminds and I need to stay feeling super good, high vibe, hydrated. I want to get all of my um amazing minerals. I want to get all of my magnesium, especially my probiotic during this and my zinc for immunity and my, like I said, magnesium, but for also just sleep and feeling good. Just feeling good. So, go to getlosy.com and use code happy. Speaking of happy, we want to use code happy for this. We want to use code happy for 25% off, you guys. Okay, until next time. Earn your happy. Bye, everyone.