 I love when women are like, I don't know, all of a sudden I just can't do that thing anymore that I did for my family. I can't give my career everything, I can't lose myself. There's a woman who basically like snapped one day and went to her phone and was like, I'm starting a We Do Not Care Club. And she was like, here are all the things I don't care about anymore, and I'm putting the world on notice that I won't be doing this. We love her already. And I was like, oh my God, I can neurochemically explain that. If that's you, that is normal. We all know something is happening to us in our 40s, and we all know anybody who's in their late 30s, early 40s, 40s period, and of course 50s, but 40s I think is just this like, I think there's this expectation that you're supposed to have it all together and you should feel happy. And all of a sudden we're all finding ourselves in this position of like, wait, I don't know if anything I've built is actually like working for me. I'm not sure if this, I'm watching a lot of friends go, I'm not sure if this marriage is working for me, leaving a lot of marriages, leaving a lot of jobs, trying to figure out what their new purpose is. Like it is very much like a time of reassessment. Yes. And trying to figure out where you fit again. And I think this is such an empowering conversation, because if you know you're meant for leadership, you can also go, where can I go and step in and use this wisdom that I know that I have. Exactly. Yeah. You just nailed it. And what made me so why, and this was why I was like, I have to write this book and connect all these dots is that so many women fear becoming invisible. Totally. So I used to have women in my clinic, like I would ask them their age and they're like, oh, I'm not going to tell you. And I'm like, okay, like, well, that's not going to help me. I know, I know. I'm like, why, like what is going on that makes you not want to like, because they're so and they were like career women that didn't want people to know their age, because God forbid they wouldn't be relevant. Right. So, so you've got that. I want to touch on the marriage thing, because when we put this book together, I had a couple of collaborative writers. And one of the things I kept saying is, I don't want this to be a divorce book. Right. We hear so much right now about the gray divorce. It's like a super popular thing in the zeitgeist. But what's happening is women are doing exactly what you just said, where they're like, wait a second, I built this life in a certain way. And I don't like that anymore. I don't want the life that I build. I want it to be this way. And I'll use myself as an example. My kids are 25 and 23. Our house was the house that everybody hung out at. So fun. So fun. Right. And I loved having all the kids around and the kitchen was always messy. A lot of purpose and identity. A lot of purpose and identity. When I hit my late 40s, all of a sudden I was like, I can't take the kitchen dirty. I can't take the kids making noise at 10 o'clock at night. Like I started to change my preferences. And at first I would tell my son, my daughter was off to college. I would tell my son and husband and they were like, I don't know who you are. Like you used to love having everybody over. I'm like, I don't love it so much anymore. And so we had to have a discussion about that. I can't wake up to the dirty kitchen. We had to have a discussion about that. And then that morphed into all of a sudden I started craving solitude. And so I had to go to my husband and be like, I think I want to go on vacation by myself. I think I need to go spend a weekend by myself. And he at first was like, what is going on? Totally. And I was like, I don't know. I need to do something different because this very extroverted family life that we have is no longer matching me. And so, but we had a conversation around it. And in age like a girl, I actually wrote an appendix to men because I think that's the more moment that women are like, this marriage doesn't fit anymore. But if we bring our husbands into the conversation and explain why, and if our husbands understand why we're going through this transformation, then all of a sudden a new marriage can emerge from a new version of the marriage. And that's really important to you. Yeah, that's so powerful to bring. I mean, thankfully, I learned early on to like bring my husband into a lot of things and even family in order for those conversations to work. But a lot of people don't don't know how to do that, especially when you're going through something that feels hard like that. That's right. Like you must have felt in the beginning like, Oh my God, why do I need solitude? Like sometimes you're like, do I want to be away from them? Is it because we're not, you know, meshing anymore? We're not interested in each other. Again, this is so powerful and important because all of a sudden people could be throwing things away that if you just have some hard conversations around them, it's could be even more beautiful on the other side. Yeah, you know, it's interesting. Two of my closest friends left their marriages during this time. And I spent a lot of time with them, wondering, asking them and trying to understand why. And both of them said, if my husband had understood what I was going through, I didn't want to leave. But I was changing. And in that change, he wasn't happy about that. He liked the old version. He liked the way our marriage was, but the marriage didn't fit me anymore. Yeah. So you have on one level that what my husband and I have done is I started looking at Julie Gottman's work and I started looking at Esther Astaire Perrell's work. And Astaire says something that really hit me. She said, most adults will fall in love with two to three people in their adult life. Some that will be with two to three different people and others that will be two to three will be with the same person. And so my husband and I started calling the marriage we had before kids, marriage 1.0. We're like marriage with kids is marriage 2.0. And the version that we're creating is empty nesters now is marriage 3.0. So instead of leaving the marriage, I've been like, can we reinvent this where it fits now better for the person I've become? And when I wrote Age Like a Girl, I actually isolated myself. I got a Airbnb in Santa Cruz, California, and for four months I lived by myself writing this book. It was so enjoyable. I have never had that much time to myself. Took a little bit of convincing to let my husband know, I'm not leaving you. I'm just needing to go in and anchor to myself and find myself. And honestly, the marriage is better because of that micro break like that. For sure. And you probably just got to like, I mean, you get to like dig so deeply into something that feels you're so passionate about and know that needs to come out. And I feel like sometimes when we get interruptions of that and if people don't understand, you don't even mean to get resentful of things. But if we're not doing what you're saying where you're like actually taking like standing up for yourself and doing the things that you want after years and years of probably living for other people. That's right. I think this time, exactly what you're saying is it's just going to amplify what's not working if you don't start standing up for yourself. So like having these hard conversations that aren't hard once you start having them and then become regular things. So let's kind of tell me what you're finding with women right now who you're giving this information to. It's like, hey, you are changing. Yeah, actually getting more powerful. You are like, you know, you're going to stop people pleasing. How do we not go and like blow up our lives with this information and just kind of start informing maybe people around us and start integrating our desires back into our life? Yeah, that's a good question. So let me let me try to break it down. So I think the first thing that women have to understand is that we have been conditioned by and for lack of better words, I'm just going to say a patriarchal culture. And by patriarch, I mean power over. So in the book, I quote a feminist psychologist who started to look at girls in the 80s and she wanted to see when girls started to pull away from their authentic voice. And what she found is if she asked a girl and a boy a very specific question at nine that the boy and the girl will tell you exactly what they want. Let's use the example of food. If you ask a boy and a girl at nine, what do you want to eat? They both will tell you if you ask them both at 11, the boy will tell you, but the girl might might waver a little bit by the time puberty hits and she's 13. You ask that same question. The boy will tell you exactly what he wants. And the girl will say, I don't know what are you eating? And what Carol Gilligan discovered was that the culture started to train girls, especially around those teenage years when estrogen is coming in, that you are worthy when you are selfless. When you give your power and you're over to other people, when you do what other people want, not what you want. This tracks. Right? Thank you. Does that track for you? Oh, yeah. When I first learned. I know the exact ages. Yeah. I was like, Carol's work. I was like, oh my God, I was a teenager and I was, I was the kid. I was who she was. Exactly. She asked me what I wanted to eat and I couldn't tell her. Yeah, exactly. But I started to look at my own, my own teenage years and realizing that there was this real switch from who I was as a girl, which is why age like a girl is a really cool. I mean, we called it that because it's like a girl is my brand. Yeah. But really what I'm hoping people do is understand who they were before puberty hit. So, and then when I became a teenager, I started doing everything for love that every adult wanted the boys wanted. You know, anybody around me, if they said you should act or perform this way and you will be, they don't say it in the sense that you'll be loved. We start wrapping. We pick up on that, right? For sure. Yes. Like we wrap ourselves up and we're like, you know, if I'm a certain size, if I don't ruffle for anybody's feathers. If I, you know, I'm constantly pleasing you. Will you love me? And I think we have different degrees of that. So the first thing is we have to understand we've been conditioned to be worthy when we serve everybody else but ourselves. And that happened when estrogen came in. When estrogen goes away, we all of a sudden don't have those same desire to start to please everybody else. You said it when we sat down. I love when women are like, I don't know, all of a sudden I just can't do that thing anymore than I did for my family. Or I can't give my career everything. I can't lose myself to my career. I actually have to have a personal life now. Or family dynamics change where all of a sudden you're like, I'm not going to let my sibling run over me anymore. I'm going to actually start to speak up for myself. So the first thing to understand is that is normal. Have you seen the We Do Not Care Club that is like all over social media? No, I haven't seen it. So there's one woman. No, I'll see it now. Yeah, you'll see it. Yeah, probably our phones. Exactly. There's a woman who basically like snapped one day and went to her phone and was like, I'm starting a We Do Not Care Club. And she was like, here are all the things I don't care about anymore. And I'm just putting the, she literally says, I'm putting the world on notice that I won't be doing those things anymore. We love her already. Right, exactly. And I was like, oh my God, I can neurochemically explain that. So what I hope all the women that are listening is if that's you, that is normal. And we have to open this conversation up that you were meant to drop the exhausting people pleasing ways. You were meant to start to live for yourself and not for everybody else. That is what's going on. The brain rewiring that's happening during this time is setting you up for freedom. And you finally get to stand and speak your truth. Now, that might not work so well in a marriage. What happens to your career? I mean, that's why we have to have conversations about this and we need to bring this to the forefront so that we can start to see, oh, that woman is doing that because she's neurochemically shifted. Through this menopausal journey, not because she's becoming mean or angry. We don't like our women angry in this culture. But what I want women to know is that is normal and you are meant to speak your truth now. Look at like Jane Fonda. If you start to look at women in their 60s, 70s and 80s, that is our most productive years. And you know, Jane Fonda, she's always, she's still out doing amazing things. Love her. Yeah. And one of my favorite quotes, and this is not to get political, but Michelle Obama got so much flack when she, a couple of years ago for not showing up at certain traditional events that an ex first lady would show up. Yeah. And everybody was like, oh my God, are you leaving Barak? And she's like, no, I'm actually just doing things for myself now. So when you start to see this, you start to see that so many women go to the other side of menopause and they start living life on their terms. I feel like it's our get out of free out of jail free card because our brain no longer can hold back our own opinions because with the loss of estrogen, those neurons pruned away that kept you and people pleasing and new neurons are forming that are making you more of an independent thinker. So it's helpful to know because once you know what's going on, I think you can make less kind of snap decisions. That's right. You can look at it for what it is and go, okay, well, I can turn the ship. I don't have to just like shed everything immediately. Yeah. And you can if you want, for sure, but you have to know there's probably going to be some like relational repercussions. That's right. Or you can like sit down, talk, look at how you could change some different things in your career. I mean, even right now, I've been having I've been starting to have these conversations just on the podcast because, you know, menopause is perimenopause and hormones is such a hot topic right now. I'm like learning about learning about this has been really empowering to me because if I can kind of see what's coming and start to know it and I'm already starting to like feel these ways of just, you know, telling you, telling Mindy when she sat down, like I just am feeling this very almost like this very audacious version of me that is like so opposite of who I used to be. Yeah. Like, oh, I wouldn't have, you know, I will dress the way I think will keep me in like in the tribe and I will speak the way that will keep me in. And I will talk about God in the way that will keep me in or not talk about God in the way that. Yeah. It's just all of the things that I actually stood for it was like, no, we'll keep it all in a closet until I know what is safe and no one's going to know anything. And I think learning about all of these things now lets me go. Okay, if I know this is like how I'm starting to feel and what's coming, I would start kind of like turning the ship of my career. Yeah. How would I start really looking at assessing when I'm in these different like at these different events? Do I still belong here? Do I still have being like, fuck that event. Those girls are like, like, that's not there's there's phases for all of these different things. And I think it's like, that's maybe the wisdom that comes from it is going. Wow, there are there are such beautiful phases to life. And if we can understand the ones we're in, yes, you can make the most of it. That is so well said. And thank you for transparency too. And this is one thing I'm trying to do with this book is we all need to share the journey with each other because then it normalizes it. Totally. 2026 is the year that you launch your business. It's the year that you've become the boss. You become the leader that idea that you have that has been eating at you forever that just will not leave you alone is going to come to life. Maybe it's something that someone tells you you should always sell or a store you've already designed in your head. And with Shopify 2026 is when you finally make it happen. Shopify gives you everything you need to sell online and in person. Millions of entrepreneurs have already made the sleep from household name to first time business owners just getting started. You guys, I use Shopify for Glossy and I remember when they sent me my little shopping bag celebrating my 10,000 sales and I literally cried because I was so scared to take the leap and I'm so glad that I did and that I use Shopify. It gives you all the tools to easily build your dream store. You can choose from hundreds of beautiful templates that you can customize to match your brand set up as fast with Shopify's built in AI tools that write product descriptions and headlines and help you edit photos. So marketing is built into you can create email and social campaigns that reach customers wherever they scroll. So as you grow, Shopify grows with you. You can handle more orders, expand to new markets and do it all from the same dashboard in 2026. Stop waiting and start selling with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com slash happy. Go to shopify.com slash happy that Shopify.com slash happy. Hear your first chitching this new year with Shopify by your side. There are so many challenges to business that I don't want starting to be one of them for you. And when you want more when you're starting a business, you need Northwest registered agent because you get access to thousands of free guides, tools and legal forms to help you launch your business. And it's all in one place. You can build your complete business identity with Northwest today. Northwest registered agent has been helping small business owners and entrepreneurs launch and grow business for nearly 30 years. They're the largest registered agent and LLC service in the U.S. with over 1500 corporate guides, real people who know your local laws and can help you and your business every step of the way. You can sign up for free account to begin managing your business hub with lawyer drafted operating agreements, bylaws, resolutions, membership certificates, bills of sale and more at no cost. Northwest makes life easy for business owners. They don't just help you form your business. They give you the free tools you need after you form it like operating agreements, meeting minutes and thousands of how to guides that explain the complicated ins and outs of running a business. And let me tell you this is life changing because I had no idea how much went into this. So don't wait, protect your privacy, build your brand and get your complete business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free and start building something amazing. Get more with Northwest registered agent at www.northwestregisteredagent.com forward slash earn free. What you just described as and I'm just going to call it the menstruating version of you even though I know you still have a cycle, but let's go back to like when we were actively you're probably at your age considered peri-manipausal. Yeah. So but we estrogen kept us tethered to people pleasing it really like it's that simple. It kept us tethered to having to outsource who we were authentically meant to be. And when estrogen goes away, we start to see glimmers of ourselves and what who we are meant to be. And that is really scary because how do you create that conversation in your family, your marriage or work? You have to recognize yourself first, which if I look at where you're at now that you know this when you start to do behaviors that might seem unusual for your husband. Instead of that creating a fight. Now what you can say is like, look, I'm getting deeper into menopause and menopause is this moment where I'm starting to really understand what I want, not what everybody else wanted for me. Yeah. And that is a much better conversation in a loving relationship than the, you know, couples fighting and going, you used to do this and now you don't do that. So we have to understand that you're literally hearing your authentic voice as you move into this and who you really want to be before we started pleasing the culture. Which you guys this is so when I when I think of what I remember like 10 years ago, I wrote a post maybe was it 10 years ago, maybe seven years ago. But I had I had written I'd like sat down and I'm like, I feel like I need to tell people this was like this moment where looking back, I was so young. But it's like to me that felt still like a very young age looking back. But at the moment it felt old and I felt like I was starting to be like looked over by society and especially coming from the background. I came out in fitness and I was a cover model and like, you know, that you're very tied to your, your badge. And so like breaking that I and I knew I would need to break that it's kind of like I was very aware of like, yeah, you're going to need to find a lot more purpose than this or you're going to have a very rough like experience in your life. And so built up a lot of purpose but still had this moment of like, wow, I feel like as you get into your late 30s, there is like this conversation around women start to like age out. Like that that saying of like, oh, you're aged out or some people start commenting that and you're like, what does that mean? Like, oh, you're done. You're done. And I had a moment of feeling done for a second. And then I, you know, like just started really digging really deep about like, wait, what is all this wisdom that we do have? And I think that this is so important for women to understand that that wisdom is literally just getting started. Exactly. That's exactly it. Access at all that. Right. That thing is so well set. Like if you're if and this is why when we look at perimenopause, we talk about the brain fog and irritability and the rage. Yeah. Yes. Part of that is hormone replacement therapy might be what you need, but it's not. Don't lose the moment there because your rage might be that you're really angry because you have not been able to stand in your own power. You haven't been able to speak your own truth or like you were you were like in a culture that you got paid for how you look. Yeah. And so now you're like, I don't want to play that game anymore. But then you're left without an identity, which is huge. And so then the rage shows up, the resentment shows up, the irritability shows up until we have conversations about, wait a second, that was supposed to happen. You are now moving into the next phase of your life where you get to finally think and behave the way you want to behave. I had a really cool. Well, it wasn't cool in the moment, but it's always the best thing later in the moment. You're like, oh, yeah. So I tell the story in the book. I was living in the Palisades when the fires hit and I grew up in Malibu and I had raised my family and had my practice in Northern California and I had moved back to LA and was going to make that my home now. My husband and I were going to be looking at maybe half time living in Northern California, half time in LA. And I was already really exhausted from launching fast like a girl and eat like a girl. And I just wanted to kind of settle into the Palisades home and write and just chill out for a while. And then the fire is hit and I evacuated the Palisades the morning of the fires with Sunset Boulevard completely on fire. I don't know if you saw all the pieces of the news, but palm trees were on fire falling on top of cars. I was in that mess. Wow. And then I got to a hotel in Santa Monica and five hours later I had to evacuate from there. And then the next day I went to Lisa Billiou's house in West Hollywood Hills and we had to evacuate from there. So 36, 48 hours of running from fire and I broke. And at the same time, and this is this is what we do as women at the same time, I was leading 100,000 people through a three day water fast. Oh my God. So I had people all over the world in the middle of a water fast. So here I am literally leaving my Canyon with everything on fire and I'm saying to my husband, I just need to get to a parking lot so that I can lead. I'll get on the call in an hour. Yeah. Wow. And he's like, honey, you need to get safe. Yeah, handle the call. Oh my God. But it's like, yeah, isn't that what we do as women were like, I'm sorry. I might be like, like my world's on fire. Yeah, let me make sure you guys are all good. Exactly. Yeah. So I missed the call that day, but then I that was a Tuesday and then Wednesday and Thursday I let everybody through I was at Lisa's house. And on Friday when the last call happened, I said to this group of 100,000 people, I was like, I'm just going to be really honest with you all. I'm not okay. And I have not been okay for a really long time. I'm completely burnt out. I can't find myself. And what I want you to know is I don't want you all to worry about me because I'll find okay. But I just need to publicly announce I'm not okay. And I feel like a lot of women are like that. And in the chat, if you feel like you're not okay. Oh, my God, wow, the chat just blew up and so many women were like, I'm not okay. I'm not okay. Thank you for giving me permission to say I'm not okay. Makes me want to cry. It was so freeing. And then, you know what I did? I actually called my parents the next day who I have on a pedestal and I'm still wanting to please. And I was like, Hey, y'all, I need you know, I'm not okay. And, but don't worry about me. I'm going to find okay, but I need to start to heal myself now. And then I went to my adult children and I called both of them independently and I'm like, I just want you to know I'm not okay, but I'm going to find okay. I'm going to isolate myself for a while. I need to heal myself. And you know what my son said to me? He was 21 and he said, you know what you need, mom? You need to reset. I was like, I do. I do. I really do. You got plans? I did. But my point in sharing the story is there was something about like, I need to put down the facade that I've got it all handled. Yeah. And that's what happens to us when we go through this menopausal experience is we're being given the opportunity to put that down and to say, I'm actually going to live life by my rules now. And when we look at the suicide rates, I think that happened to those women when they went to kill themselves. They didn't know the door out and they were feeling like they couldn't put the mask on anymore. And when I look at the divorce rates, I think a lot of women enter in merit into marriage with one version of them, but somewhere down the marriage line, there are different version now. And that's why this book is so important to me is we have to bring these conversations out and allow women to change. We let teenagers change. Yeah. Like, you know, a girl goes from like a 10 year old and she's like your best friend. And then at 14, you look at her wrong and she wants to, you know, walk out of the room and we go, oh, that's, you know, that's part of the teenage process. But we don't give menopausal women the same grace. Hmm. Okay, I hope this book sells millions and millions and millions because imagine what would happen if women in their 40s, 50s and 60s actually started speaking more wisdom, like found it. Yep. Like, you need to bring, okay, idea, you need to literally started out like a grandma tribe, but we you can join it as soon as you're 40. That's a great idea. The only problem is a lot of baby grandma. Yeah, a baby grandma. Because a lot of people, we really wrestled with the grandmother hypothesis because a lot of, you know, there's a real trend for women to not have kids right now. I don't have kids. I'll be a grandma. Right. And a lot of women. Yeah. So, you know, we played with different versions. I share in the book, I studied Clarissa Pincola Estes' work and she wrote Women Who Run With the Wolves. And she wrote another book called Dangerous Women, which is one of my favorite. And she has a concept called the crone. And so many of us think of the crone as like, you're old and you're ugly and you're like witchy and you could push you away. But actually what crone means is crown. And so it's like, this is a time to put our crown on and actually to stand up and be who we really want to be. And I agree. We need to come together in that and give each other permission to change and lift each other up. I share in the book that when I went through this transformation, a lot of my friends are five and 10 years older than me. And it was so...  disorienting to feel like my identity as a human was changing. And when I went to my friends who were older than me, the most helpful statements they made were, Mindy, this is your initiation into you. I can't tell you how you do it. Wow, that's powerful. It's an amazing friend. And they were like, I can't tell you how to do it, but I can stand next to you as you do it and support you through the process. So if we create a grandmother tribe, that's what I envision this is like all women coming together and letting each other experience the transformation into the most authentic version of ourselves. And that to me, I mean, a billion women right now are in menopods, a billion women. Like imagine if a billion women stood up and finally told their truth. Like what would the world look like if we were truly authentically true to ourselves? It blows my mind. It does blow my mind. Well, I feel like you're going to start cracking some stuff open here. I hope. So exciting. Yeah. And I always say like, you know, a great question to ask an author is, why do you write a book? And for me, I write a book to open conversations. So with Fast and the Girl, we open the conversation up of, wait, what else should women be cycling? I started to watch that happen. People were like, oh, should I cycle my biohacks? Should I cycle my supplements? What else should I cycle? Yeah. And with age like a girl, I really want to open up this idea of like, this is our opportunity to be who we always wanted to be. And what does that look like? And how does that affect marriages? And, you know, I know you have a big entrepreneurial following. Like, how does that affect our work? I don't know if you see this in your community. But I know for me, I'm not interested in working seven days a week anymore. No, I definitely see that. Like, but as an entrepreneur. Right. We just signed up for Monday through Friday. Totally. I see a huge shift in women going, okay, I got to figure out how to work when I feel better, when you feel good. That's right. I know you can't just work when you're motivated, but starting to think like, when, when does this really work for me? Right. You're the best work out of you. Yeah. And when you're in your forties, you're got like, getting glimmers of this. But here's the great news is when you get like, I'm 56 and I've been post-menopausal for three years. And each year I go deeper and deeper into it. It gets easier and easier to stand up for myself. I literally just had this conversation with my husband yesterday who's CEO of our business. And I said, here's what I'll tell you. I'm willing to give the business four more weeks, launching this book into the world, working seven days a week, getting on planes and doing interviews like this, which are enjoyable, but they take you away. They take a lot. They take a lot out of you. And when I come home, starting in January, after the book has been released, I'm going back to working two days a week. So that the rest of the time I can finally do what I want to do. I've given myself over to my practice. I've given myself over to my marriage, to my family, to my family of origin. Like I've been a great steward of all those things at the expense of myself. And I'm like, now I'm not doing that anymore. And that feels natural to say. Yeah. And I think many women would say that. And I hear you sort of at the beginnings of the rumblings of that. Totally. And I think having the realization too that like, you're going to tap out and burn out. And you won't get, you know, I'm watching you created three bucks in a shorter period of time, but you will have to like going away and taking time is the only way to access more creativity and access more wisdom. Like doing, getting burnt out or, you know, doing all the things that everyone else wants you to do. It's like it cuts off the wisdom from everything. Yes. Julie Gottman, I was sitting with her in a meeting back in April and we were talking about resentment and she said in a marriage, and I think this applies to our businesses as well, we become resentful when we say yes to the things we really want to say. Oh yeah. Right. Oh yeah. And think about that with our own businesses is that we say yes, because we're like, I got to do it for the business. I got to do it for the growth. But then we actually become resentful for our own career. And so that's what starts to shift as we go into the art, our post-menopausal years. And hopefully with this new wisdom that we're all gaining from books like mine. And I mean, there's a lot of great books out there sort of speaking this truth right now is that we can actually reinvent ourselves and our businesses to work for us and work smarter, not harder and actually talk about the things we want to talk about and talk about the things that light us up, not what the algorithm wants us to talk about. Free yourself. Yes. Free yourself. Free your energy. Exactly. Be with the people you want to be with. Exactly. Do the things you want to do. Yeah. It's very possible. It just takes those conversations. I mean, I think awareness is where it all begins. Yeah. And I think that's what you're, well, I know that's what you're doing with this book. So I'm so excited. I'm so excited for everyone to read it so we can get it where all books are sold. Yep. You can get it anywhere. It'll be out and about in the world. Age like a girl. Yep. And I will put everything in the show notes for you guys. All you have to do is just scroll down on this and you can see all of the things and we'll connect where to follow you and all that fun stuff too. So thank you so much for coming on again. Thank you, Laurie. I love talking to you. Oh, I always love your energy and you're so much fun and energetic and hilarious and it's just like such a good conversation with you. So thank you so much. Yeah. Thank you. And I love that as my little girl was ridiculed for her humor. And now I get to use it to my advantage. There's a classic example of like how many of us were like shamed for some behavior. And so I smile when you say that. So thank you. Humor, Sebastian. It's my favorite. It's my favorite thing. Exactly. Thank you again so much.