This podcast is sponsored by the following sponsors. The Real Real. Buy and sell luxury clothing, bags, and more on The Real Real. Get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. Shopify, the e-commerce platform I trust for Glossy. Sign up for your $1 a month trial period at shopify.com/happy. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/earn Airbnb. Start making money by listing your home on Airbnb with the support of an experienced co-host. Find a co-host airbnb.com/host. Get Notion mail for free right now at notion.com/earn. And try the inbox that thinks like you. That's all lowercase letters. Notion.com to get notion mail for free right now. I'm sure we both have seen so many people that have built businesses that have like done well and yet totally burnt them out. And like I think human design is one example of like how can you build a thing that like not only does well but also feels really good. And that kind of applies to every part of our lives. Like how can you parent in a way that feels sustainable? How can you show up in relationships where you can like honor those needs that you have? I think it just helps us know like how can we really honor our authenticity wherever we are in whatever we're doing. Hey everyone, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Today on the show, I have Aaron Claire Jones. She's the world's leading expert in human design. She's actually the first person I ever found out my human design with and I explored my chart with. And ever since then, it's been a massive help in everything I do and how I relate to people. She's helped hundreds of thousands of people understand themselves better, overcome obstacles, and find their flow in work, life, and love. She's been featured in Forbes, L, Vogue, Allure, Nylon, and more. And I'm so excited for this conversation because the more I specifically learn about human design, the more I feel like I can really relate to the people around me. And in this conversation, she shares the five different human design types. And Aaron has a special discount code for you to get your own human design blueprint at the end of this podcast. And you can also go to humanesignb blueprint.com and use code happy for a discount on your personalized human design blueprint. I'm telling you guys, this is going to rock your world, change your life. We dive a lot into my own design, but I think you're going to be able to really figure out not only your own, but see how this could work for you. So, let's get started. Erin, welcome back to the Earn Your Happy podcast. I'm so excited to have you on. I'm so happy to be here. It's been a while. It has been a while. It was um back in my house in Santa Monica, so it's been a hot second. Wow. I'm so happy to be here. Oh, I'm I'm thrilled because you know you are the human design queen and my first experience with human design was with you. Uh, like first it was the internet, but then it was really with you getting to deep dive and we had a group of like family and friends kind of do a session with you together, which was so much fun getting to learn about everybody. And it really I think that really was the beginning of even just this conversation within people in my close circle and family to understand each other more. And so that was so much fun. And now you have a new book out called How Do You Choose? What a great title for what you do. Like really diving into choosing with your unique design. And if you guys don't know what I'm talking about, I'm going to have Aaron explain this in in just a minute, but I know whenever anyone has written a book, I like to just chat on that for a hot second because the journey of getting called so clearly to a book is because you really do have a message that you're willing to, you know, fight for and like stand on that hill and like shout to everyone because Aaron and I were just chatting before this, you guys, like when you decide to write a book That is a challenge. Like you're not an author before you're an author and you have to become this person that you've never been before. You have to get so insanely disciplined and dialed in and clear and then you have to turn into the marketer for a year. So it's like you're an author for a year to two years and then you're a marketer for a year and then you never stop marketing your book. So I want to know what are some things that were unexpected that you learned about yourself on this journey? Wow. Well, I would say one lesson for me, and I don't know what it was like when you wrote your book, but like I kind of had this vision that I could like write the book and like run my business and I would be like just great at managing it all, but the book was like a far more immersive process than I imagined. It felt like over the past 18 months, like 90% of my energy has gone to the book. I just didn't feel like I could actually distribute in all the ways that I wanted to. So, I'm so excited to be for it to be out. And I'm also really like looking forward to diving back into my business in a new way. So, I don't think I really anticipated that. I think I also, to your point, like I felt like I was so ready to be done with the writing because I was like, I can't wait to share. But boy, has the marketing been exhausting. Um, it's been amazing. And now that I'm kind of nearing the end of it, I'm like, I really look forward to the day, which is today, which is now, that like the book is out in the world. that can like take on a life of its own, you know, where like I will keep marketing and sharing it, but it also feels like now it's like in the hands of people and they can like give it to the people they love and it can just like move from there. So like I'm really looking forward to that journey. But I will also say the last piece that has been surprising is that you know I've been teaching the system now for 10 years which is crazy and and I feel like I was surprised by how much the book has helped me. You know, I think that I have ended up reading and rereading, as you know, 1,000 times. And like every time I read a new chapter, I'd be like, "Oh my god, like I see why this friendship is feeling hard in my life, or I see why I'm having this miscommunication with my husband, or I see why my daughter is like struggling in this way." I felt like returning to the information over and over again just brought me clarity over and over again. And like, I so want the book to be that for everyone. And it was really such a wild experience to actually experience that myself even though I wrote the freaking chapters. Wow. Yeah. It's it's crazy that just the editing process and the going back through that is discipline within itself. I remember having to be like, "Oh my god, you just pick it back up, read it again, put fresh eyes on like, wow, it is like now when I hold books, I have such a new respect for that takes to get out in the world." So, I love that you did this and and let me just tell you, if you thought you knew what you taught before, you know it more now. Yeah. Oh my god. Let Let's dive in because we use human design, I feel like, in everything we do. I use it in all my conversations with my girlfriends. So, let's just start there for anyone who's new to the conversation, what it is. So, human design is a mystical assessment. It's based on your time, date, and place of birth. And it reveals how you are uniquely wired to operate in every part of your life from friendship to relationships to career to parenting to business. It really gives us permission and the tools to really do things in a way that feels authentic and aligned for us. I think so often we see what others are doing and think that it might work for us and sometimes it does but often it doesn't. And humaniz reminds us like this is how you're wired to make decisions. This is like how you're wired to like engage socially or have meetings or show up in friendship or any of the things. And the last piece that I would say is that I find human design to be equal parts mystical and practical. It's obviously mystical and that it comes from our birth information. But I also find it isn't so insanely practical. It doesn't just give us all this juicy information that makes us feel very seen. It gives us all these very tangible practical tools that we can integrate into our everyday. And that really was my focus with this book. Do you find that you use it for a lot of business people? Like who's been your main clientele? Well, now it's been so many people, you know. I would say that when I first started it was focused almost exclusively on business, but now it's like, you know, we have like 45,000 people that have their guides. So, it's it's hard to narrow it down, but I would say that it tends to be like anyone that is kind of at a crossroads where they're just like, I need help with this thing, whether it's romantic relationship or a parenting challenge or a business challenge, and they're looking for insight. But I would say that it's broadened like I think that the the interest in like the team interest and the CEO and executives like that audience has grown in a really big way because I think that there's just like an increased openness to any system that will help them do things better and I think human design has such an impact on business and teams because it really helps them understand each other that I've seen interest there grow in a pretty dramatic way. Okay. So you've seen this integrated into a lot of teams like mainstream. Yes. Yeah. I mean I think that like I would say like I've given talks at a lot of like mainstream companies to teams within you know I think that like it is an interesting thing to integrate like I don't even though some people like integrate human design and hiring and things like that. That's not often what I do. It's more around once you've kind of like built a team sitting with them and helping them understand how they work best because you can just be so precise. You can be like, "Hey, you know, instead of coming to Lori with like a super open-ended question, like it might be useful to present options, you know, like some people might love like a lot of collaborative meetings and brainstorming words. Others like might like really minimal meetings. You know, some people might kind of need to be invited in to share. Some people might have more energy than others. So like I feel like there's often so much misunderstanding in teams and also in romantic relationships when we expect someone to be like us and we're really disappointed that they're different. And I think human design just gives us a language to be like they're wired differently and these are all the ways that we can support them. So I find in team dynamics that's so insanely helpful because it helps you know how to kind of like really leverage somebody's unique gifts. Oh god for sure. There there's so much that I remember learning about specifically my brother-in-law that we work with because we are the two of us are so different that it actually helped me understand and get along with them even better. We get along great in life, but in work, because we're so opposite, it can feel like we're pushing up against, you know, each other's differing opinions. And I feel like we've been able to work so much better since me understanding how he looks at things is not critical. It's because he really wants to make sure everything is going to work out great. So, it's so it brings so much compassion. You know, I even tell a story in the book of like a couple that was trying to decide whether or not to move to New York City. And one of them was like instantly knew, like she had instant clarity, which her design was like she's meant to be fast and she was like, "God, my husband's so slow. He's waffling. He's so indecisive." And when we looked at his way of making decisions, he was meant to give himself a full month before he reaches truth. So what she was perceiving as like indecisiveness was very much his process of finding his way to what he wanted to do. And so I think that like it's just one example of so many that we can like interpret these differences as like them being wrong or us being wrong when it's just that we're different. Oh my god. Okay. So, we're going to dive into the design, then we're going to talk about my design and you guys will kind of see how this all works in the world and how it's helped me with decision- making. And this is great because I haven't dove in in a while, like really since you. So, I'm really excited because I feel like I've needed an update and we'll see how I've made decisions in my life. Totally. and whether it's aligned with your design. Exactly. We'll see in front of everyone. Um, okay. So, let's talk about the different designs and what they are. Okay. So, in human design at the highest level, there are five different types. You know, this is a really important piece and it's just the first piece. Those types are manifesting generators, generators, reflectors, projectors, and manifesttors. You can look yours up at humanesignbloopprint.com. If you don't know your precise time of birth, I would use the closest approximate you know. I will begin with you, our generator. So, generators in human design have boundless energy when they feel genuinely satisfied and excited by what they're doing. When they're lit up by what they're doing, they have this capacity to kind of go, go, go and really bring ideas to life in such a powerful way. Obviously, you have demonstrated that with your life. I think generators can sometimes struggle with boundaries because they have such natural capacity. People can like pile a lot of things onto them. They might feel they should do everything. And so really kind of getting clear on what they feel genuinely available for. Also, what tends to bring generators the most satisfaction is like fully expending your energy. Often an ideal day is one where you kind of wake up energized, kind of use up your energy throughout the day, whether it's working on your business, your podcast, exercise, you know, being with your partner, and then you kind of drop into bed delightfully spent. You're like, I left it all on the field. For sure. Do you feel that? Oh my god, that's 100% me. Yeah. If I don't use it all, I can feel a little like Yeah. wired still. Totally. And like sometimes generators have to like do a workout late at night or like go on a walk or do something, you know? I think often when I'm trying to sense where a generator is at in their life will often kind of check in about how they feel at night. Um because that often is really reflective of of their alignment in general. And then I would say lastly, as a generator, you are somebody who's very naturally magnetic. You are not really meant to chase after opportunities or kind of come with ideas out of thin air. You're meant to kind of see what shows up in your world and kind of naturally sparks you. Mhm. I feel that. Okay. So, then we've got manifesting generators. Manifesting generators also have all this boundless energy when they're genuinely excited, but they tend to be quite multi-passionate. You know, these are my clients that are like I'm a coach. You know, I'm also like a lawyer on the side, also like starting a dance company, like considering opening a juice like company. They're just like they do so many things and so often they've been made to feel scattered or like they're doing too much when they actually need that level of variety and freshness. They're also super fast. You know, once they've clarity an idea is right, they're often the fastest one to make it happen. So, they can often be disappointed in others inefficiency when it's really not about somebody else being incompetent, but just, you know, somebody else having different gifts and they too are kind of meant to let things come to them and kind of see what sparks their gut response. This my husband I believe I remember I think I was trying to remember. Yeah. So again like so multi-passionate in such a beautiful way but I think often they have been made to feel scattered like they're doing too much you know and and that's just that's their gift being like so multi-hyenate in that way um there are also projectors projectors are very natural leaders guides teachers advisors coaches really good at kind of asking the right questions really good at stewarding other people's energy they're so naturally wise about other people and very sensitive to others their energy can really eb and flow so a big lesson for us as projectors I'm saying us because I am one is really allowing space and rest and pause into our days and really disentangling our worth from how hard we work and how much we do. You know, we don't have the same thing as you. It's like we've got to use it all up to like feel rest well. Like it's good to kind of build and rest throughout the day. And then as projectors, we're really here to be invited in. So really considering where in our lives we feel the most kind of invited in and recognized for our gifts beyond how much we can do. Then we've got manifestors. These are kind of the people that are here to disrupt, innovate, trailblaze, you know, they really are so good at getting new ideas started. Their gift is not doing all the doing to keep the idea alive, but really getting it rolling, getting the ball rolling. These are people that crave freedom. Freedom to do what they want, when they want, how they want. They are not really here to be managed or guided or told what to do. And their energy is very bursty. They can be like on fire for a couple weeks and then kind of have a couple weeks where they kind of pull back and rest. to really building a life in an ideal world that they can really honor those cycles and they are here to make the first move whether it comes to dating or business when an urge arises within them they're really meant to follow it and then the final type is a reflector this is the rarest type these people are incredibly sensitive to their environment always kind of taking in and amplifying the energy that they're around so really being quite ruthless about where they spend time and who they spend time with is really essential and these are people that are very fluid like different seasons of life different people different environments pull at different parts of them. So their job is not to try to be just one thing, but honor whatever feels like them that day, knowing it's all them. And they're incredibly wise, very kind of objective in their perspective and how they see things. So they thrive in positions where that perspective is kind of what they are really valued for and their perspective is really invited in. When you tell people these, do most people say, "Yeah, that sounds like me." But do they get confused because they also feel like other parts? You know, are you wrong? Are you for sure? Just cuz sometimes I'm like, am I a manifesting generator or do most people say, "Yeah, that's me." A fit. Well, I would say that it depends. Like I think there's so much nuance underneath our type. I just did a session for somebody last week in LA and she didn't know her birth time, but like when I met her, I had a very clear sense of what I thought she might be. Okay. And and she listened to all five and she was like 100% manifesttor and which was what I thought and it was so fun to see. But like I guess what I would say for you is like you are a generator. you have all this kind of like steady energy, this powerful commitment, but you also do have an aspect of your design. This is beyond you being a manifesting generator that you have like a very fluid identity. So, you also are meant to express your purpose in a majillion different ways. So, like I would imagine you kind of would resonate with that multi-passionate piece. And I would just say the difference for you as a generator is that it might not look like, you know, doing a bajillion things every day, but like, you know, one day you really focus on this and then the next day you really focus on this because there's such a level of depth in your design. So, it's not about doing not doing many things, but being a little bit more strategic around like giving yourself the space to go really go in. Oh, yeah. That's I mean that is what I've been learning. The reason that's cool to hear and you guys will understand as you're starting to see like how helpful it is to even hear this is the thing that I have done this year and really started at the end of last year is to really take specific days to dive in or I feel so incomplete that I actually get frustrated and my head hits the pillow and I get very upset with myself to the point where I'm like angry and then it creates like just a you know to total incoherence in my entire life. So, I I love hearing that and it just what human design is over and over, which you'll continue to hear and if you work with Aaron and you go see your designer when you read this book, it's such confirmation of things you already knew instead of being like, "Oh, I'm a weirdo." Or, "Oh, I I'm extra. I need this time to create blah blah. I need more time." Whatever. Yeah, you may need more time. And I think the more that we lean into it, the more magic comes. Like the more you get to see what you're capable of doing. And also, you just feel so much better. There's not so much disruption and like lack of feeling a connection even with yourself and with your creator, whatever you believe. Uh I feel like that's what you can really lean into and that's why everybody should read this book. Okay, let's uh let's continue. Well, I love that I love that you said that because I do think I just want to kind of reinforce that that I feel like the people that are most skeptical tend to really fall in love with you in a design for that reason because it feels like what I articulate to them is not this foreign concept. It's like they know it. They're like, "Oh god, I feel this. I've felt it my entire life, but nobody's put it into words." Yeah. So, it does kind of do that for people where they're like, "I know this and I haven't really allowed it and now I have permission to allow it." For sure. Yeah. permission to just lean in and keep creating what you need for yourself to feel better. Because if anything else, I think that we, you know, in our lives, if we weren't putting human design language to it, there's already a language of this that you're speaking that you don't even realize. And it's just like, I want to feel better. I want to feel more me. I want to feel more expressed. And I think human design allows you to lean into how you're going to feel better, feel more aligned, and feel more expressed. That's exactly right. And like again, I think I'm sure we both have seen so many people that have built businesses that have like done well and yet totally burnt them out. And like I think human design is one example of like how can you build a thing that like not only does well but also feels really good. And that kind of applies to every part of our lives. Like how can you parent in a way that feels sustainable? Like how can you show up in relationships where you can like honor those needs that you have? So I think it just helps us know like how can we really honor our authenticity wherever we are in whatever we're doing. Totally. So, should we dive into what my human design says about my work? Yeah, I love that. So, okay. So, you as a generator, you know, I think that we've talked about this piece already, but I would just say that like I would think about like what are the parts of your work? And obviously, I know you do many things that like feel the most satisfying like what are the things that you like on the other side of doing them, you're like, "God, that feel like feels so good to have done." And like I would make sure to kind of carve out space to do that thing every day because like I said like when you are really lit up your energy is boundless. You lit up your team. You're so magnetic. But when you're doing a lot of things that like you don't enjoy which is pretty inevitable in the early stages of building a thing you know it's like how can you make sure you kind of carve out some of that other space and kind of are able to do that because it will give you more energy to do everything else. Oh my gosh. I mean it makes total sense right now because in the beginning you are like you are in so many things you don't necessarily want to be in. So, what would you say to somebody who, you know, what would you say to me who literally still has to be in so many things right now? Cuz we're working on it, but I am pushing so hard right now through a lot of really tough stuff and looking for the days where I'm like, "Oh my god, when do I get to be creative? When do I get to be creative?" Yeah. So, you know, something I talk about in the book is kind of the need to be like primarily satisfied. I feel like there's a lot of generator talk out there like you've got to be lit up by everything you do which is just like often not feasible. So it's like I would say for you when there is you're in a moment of like this is hard and I'm building something and this is not easy. Like again, how can you carve out like I would say like an hour or whatever it is like in the morning? I feel like you honestly already do this, but like carve out some space for yourself where like I'm going to do a thing I enjoy just because or like I'm going to like stack the tasks that really feel like will feel the best I've done at the top of the day so that like it will help me power through all the things that I don't enjoy. And like when it is possible to kind of delegate and hand those things off, giving yourself full permission to do that. And also I would say another thing for you is like you are somebody that responds well to specificity to specific questions. So like an example of that would be like do you want to do this thing or this one? Do you want to like is the timing right for this? And so like I would say if there's also any uncertainty around where you're putting your energy or how you're approaching it, I would have somebody ask you really specific questions around the issues you're facing to make sure you really have the energy for what you're doing. Does that make sense? Totally. Yeah. for decision making in business. Does that does design help with that? Like what does that look like? What do you tell people if they're having, you know, trouble making decisions? Okay, if you're like me and your inbox is stressing you out and you need to spend less time there and more time in your business actually moving the needle, bringing money in, I'm about to change your life. Notion Mail is the inbox that thinks like you. Automated, personalized, and flexible to finally work the way you work. With AI that learns what matters to you, it can organize your inbox, label messages, draft replies, and even schedule meetings. No manual sorting required, you guys. It has AI organized inbox. You can tell notion AI what's important to you. And it's going to automatically label them and sort them so that they arrive in the way that you want. Custom views for focus. Split your inbox into custom views like topics, urgencies, senders, or what you want to do to stay distractionfree from those emails that you don't want to give your attention to. You can fly through emails with something called snippets. It's a one-click email template where you can do different intros, you can do follow-ups. This is perfect for my podcast, you guys, because I get over 30 inquiries in my inbox a day. So, I can automate all of that. It can even include attachments and scheduling links. You can write beautiful emails faster. Get notion mail for free right now at notion.com/earn. And try the inbox that thinks like you. That's all lowercase letters. Notion.com/earn to get notion mail for free right now. When you use our link, you're supporting our show, you guys. Notion.com/earn. When I first started Glossy, I was so overwhelmed. I felt like I had to do everything on my own because you do. and your to-do list just keeps mounting. But let me tell you, when you're starting off with something new, it just seems like that list is growing and growing and growing. And it can quickly overrun your life. So, you have to start learning to find the right tools that can not only help you out, but simplify everything. And that is a game changer. And let me tell you, for millions of businesses, that tool is Shopify. And I am included in those numbers. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world. than 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started and I'm going to add mine to the list, Gloy. Get started with your own design studio. With hundreds of readytouse templates, Shopify helps you build a beautiful online store to match your brand style. And you guys, I love my website so much that's on Shopify. Go and check it out. Also, Shopify is your e-commerce expert with world-class expertise in everything from managing inventory to international shipping to processing returns and beyond. If you're ready to sell, you're ready for Shopify. Turn your big business idea into chachching with Shopify on your side. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/happy. Go to shopify.com/happy.ify.com/happy. I'm so excited to share that this podcast is sponsored by The Real Real, the best place to shop authenticated luxury bags, clothing, watches, and so much more. Personally, I love finding unique elevated pieces that feel like me, and the Real Real is one of my favorite places to discover them. Whether I'm looking for a one-of-a-kind Zimmerman dress or a classic YSL bag, I know I'm getting something super special and I'm getting it at a great value. The Real Real is attainable luxury that upgrades your personal style. With up to 90% off retail, you can finally have the pieces you've been dreaming of from brands like Gucci, Fendi, Prada, and so many others. Unlike other resale sites, everything The Real Real sells is authenticated in person by luxury and fashion experts. The Real Real is the go-to place for your next special piece. Need a dress for a fancy wedding? The perfect vacation sandals? Ready to invest in a new bag to add to your collection? Find exactly what you're looking for that no one else has at The Real Real. The Real Real is the world's largest and most trusted resource for authenticated luxury resale. With thousands of new arrivals daily, no one does resale like The Real Real. And now get $25 off your first purchase when you go to the realreal.com/happy. That's the realreal.com/happy to get your $25 off. Start shopping now at the realreal.com/happy. So, everybody has a different way of choosing. I would say in your design, you are what we call an emotional authority. So, if you look over your chart again at humanesignbloopprint.com, you'll see your type. We talked about that. You'll also see your authority. And so, for example, for Lori, your authority is around the fact that as as gut and instinctual as you are in your choices, you are meant to really give yourself a beat before you say yes. M. So, I would actually recommend for you like pay attention to your first instinct and then check back in a day or two later and see if that instinct is still strong. You're also somebody who's got like a very powerful, very active mind. So, I can imagine it's really easy to logic your way into or out of basically any choice, anything, anything. It's like it is for sure a gift of yours. And, you know, I would say really kind of returning to your gut in terms of again like as much as I can see why I should or should not do this thing, like what is the visceral feeling underneath it? Do you feel like a lot of your business decisions are driven by gut or do you feel like they do you get a little bit lost in what you think you should do? Um, I can get lost because I can pitch myself that it could be good in so many ways. So, I can get a little lost. Gut does feel like it plays a big role. I'm not I can get lost in the decisions that I've already decided to put on the good side. Does that make sense? I'm pretty clear right away if it's not for me, but there's so many things that do still feel that it could be right that those are the ones I get lost in. Yeah. And I think like when you feel like you are lost in that way, I would honestly have somebody close to you like say your husband just be like, do you want to do this? Like is the timing right? And be like, what is the visual response that comes before my mind even has a chance to get in the way? I have a thing I want to share about the business, but I'm curious like is there any kind of decision that you are looking to make right now that you don't yet have clarity around? Not really honestly in this particular moment. Um I think I feel really clear. I'm Yeah, I think I feel clear for a while there. I was like how big do I want to go with my company? Um and that felt unclear, but I feel I feel very clear now what I want to do. Like that's great. Yeah. Yeah. And and I would that you Yeah. And I would just say like in those moments when you are having a hard time choosing that's like a really good time to have somebody ask you those questions. Like I can't tell you how often I sit with people and they like kind of talk around a potential option for like 20 minutes and then they're like do you want to do it? They're like no. So like the answer is actually incredibly clear. They just haven't been asked in a way that actually drops them into their knowing. And I would watch out for you and your voice to hear the moments where you're like, I think that I should do this because it might lead to this thing or this thing might happen, which is very disconnected from the gut versus the moments when you're like, I'm doing this thing just because it feels right. I don't quite know why or how it will look, but like it just feels so deeply correct. So, you know, and this is Lor's way of choosing other people are meant to kind of talk things out. Some people can trust their immediate instinct, but I think that we are making decisions all day every day. So obviously knowing how to make them in a way that feels really true to us makes the biggest difference. Oh, you know what? There I mean there is one I'll see if I'll leave this in Aaron, but like honestly I feel like I could go back and forth from hour to hour on if we should have kids or not. Like because we we tried in my late um 30s quite a bit like u rounds of IVF and you know at the time I was super excited. Now I'm 44 and I'm like I can tell myself why I want them but like it is so unclear. It's actually I've never been on I've never not been able to make a decision and this is the only one. Wow. Okay. Can we try? Yeah, let's try it. Okay. So my encouragement is just do your best to just like shake it out and just see like what is the immediate response like? Is it a pull towards or is it kind of push away? So, if I'm to ask, do you feel like you want to have kids? My future feels like I want them, but my present says that sounds like a hassle and very challenging. So, I think that like one thing to really kind of disentangle here is like to me it felt like the no was coming from like all the things you might envision that come along with it. Yeah. Versus just like does this thing feel right? Yeah, that's interesting. Okay. You know, and then and then I was to ask another question which is like does the timing feel right to do it. The answer is the timing will never feel right because I will always be this busy. That is definitely true with kids, you know. Um, but I think, you know, so it sounds like the answer is not entirely clear, but like I do think what I what I hear there again is like the no is a little bit more based in like all the ideas, whereas it feels like the yes is actually more of like and again it's it sounds like it's always a full-bodied yes yet, but it does feel like it's a little bit more of like I do want this. It just sounds complicated because totally if I was to summarize it, that's what I would say. like I know I will feel deep regret if I don't do it but then you know the personal development part of in the way that my brain thinks and I'm sure the way you know you've talked to so many people and especially according to what my design is I can pitch myself that I'll still be more than okay and I'll find a lot of other purpose but I also there's just a part of me that's like but what is life you know so That's interesting. Well, also a question that I usually encourage generators to ask themselves and it's usually not relevant to kids, but I do think it's relevant here is like like what would feel satisfying to have done, you know, and I usually pitch that on like a day-to-day basis, like you know, to kind of begin your day being like what are the three things I could do that would like feel satisfying to have done? Some of those things might be really fun. Some of those things might suck, but like they leave you feeling like oh god that felt gratifying. I think it extends to kids too. It's like, yeah, it might be super hard and really complicated, but like would it do you think it'd feel satisfying to have done it? Like I feel like what I'm hearing from you is like the answer might be potentially yes to that, you know, and that's a thing to consider. That's a great question just for anybody who's who is making decisions right now too. Hopefully that helps them because hearing satisfying is such so different than even fulfilled. Fulfilled's a really great word as well. Um but like you know you try to picture this is such a big question for so many people and it's becoming a more normalized question because so many more women are not having children um more people are not having children and it's like at the end of my life will my businesses have felt satisfying enough for me and I think that answer is no like I think it will be that a family will be like that deep satisfaction of like oh I came I actually came here for this too you know so that's good that was helpful. Yeah. No, I think that your reflections are really beautiful around that. And I think, you know, it extends it it speaks to the fact that in human design, we all have signals that reveal whether we're on or off track or just signals of alignment or signals that like a thing needs to change. And so for you, that signal of alignment, this is true for manifesting generators, too, is satisfaction. It is like the way that I'm expending my energy feels rewarding, you know, and when things are off track, which is inevitable and will arise for all of us, for you it's frustration. there's like a little bit of a dissatisfaction or resentment in the way that you're using your energy and frustration, it's of course going to have like arise in all the moments. But when it's showing up very persistently, whether it's with a team member or an aspect of your business or your husband, it basically is an invitation to step back and be like, how can I engage with this this thing differently? This is actually frustration is I think one of the key words I remembered from the first time we worked together. And you know, I thought that was how everybody felt, like that was their main like emotion for when things weren't going right, but it's not. And but for me, it truly is like a and I I remember explaining it to you as like a toddler having an inner temper tantrum, like just trying to be like, "This is not how I want this to be going. This is not how I wanted to spend my day. This is not how I wanted to express. This is not what I want to be working on. I don't feel satisfied. I don't feel good about myself. It can actually make me feel like really mad at myself, you know? Totally. Because like as a generator, like you're gifted. It's like very powerful, precious energy to make things happen. And when it feels like that is not being used properly or like in the right way, it can just be like gh it can like feel so bad. So again, like satisfaction is just that reminder like I'm using my energy in a way that feels really good, that feels really rewarding. To give you an example of another one, um, for me, when something is out of alignment, it shows up as bitterness. Oh, very different. See, I don't even relate to that. I know. Isn't that wild? It's so cool. It is so cool because it feels very simple and yet so distinct. I think bitterness is off in this sense of like I don't feel recognized. I don't feel appreciated. I don't feel invited in to share. Like I'm putting all this stuff in and nothing's happening. For me to be on track and align is to feel successful. And like of course financial success is one manifestation of that, but far more than that, it's that feeling of like I feel so seen and recognized and appreciated for who I am and what I bring to the table, whether it's in my marriage or my friendship or my job. And so for me, when like I start to feel bitter is that kind of like nudge or that whisper that like something needs to change here. What's another one? So I'll give you the other one. So for manifesttors to be off track is anger. And that and and that kind of is like a more disempowered feeling. It's like I don't have the freedom to do what I want, when I want, how I want. I feel controlled. And for them to be on track, which I love, is peace. And that really is that inherent freedom of like I can do what I want. I can like initiate new ideas when I want. I can like, you know, go on trips where I can take time to myself like without guilt. Like the freedom to do it when they want to. And then the final one is for reflectors. And to be off track is disappointment, which is often trying to be a thing that they're not. Trying to kind of subscribe to others patterns or way of doing things. and to be on track which must be my most favorite even though it's not my own is surprise which is kind of just this like sense of like wonder of like marveling at how things are happening what's happening what they feel express what they feel inspired to share so you know it's it's fun to kind of watch all the ways that that shows up in people's lives oh my god they're so different and I can as you're talking of course we can see different family members and different friends what is what was manifesting generally was that frustration as well it was frustration and satisfaction But manifesting generators also have a little bit of the anger and peace. I was just gonna say Chris I was like Chris has an anger. You know he got it too. Manifesting generators are double in that way. Yeah. Yeah. I can see the frustration in him and the anger. Definitely. For sure. That's that's how it shows up. We're so the same in so many ways but also couldn't be more different. Yeah. And it's it's fun to kind of see like the little nuances. Like I just was talking to somebody earlier like she and her husband are both projectors but like they're radically different projectors. So again, this is just so nuanced. The other piece I want to make sure to share about your design because I just think you embody it so beautifully. I also know that your book was about this is like we have a part of our design called profile and I love that it's part of our chart. It looks kind of like a fraction looking number. So you are 46. The four in your profile is around the fact that like you are just somebody who like is so meant to be immersed in community. Like your opportunities are all meant to come through the people that you know. You are somebody that does best work does best working with friends, working with people that you know, working with people that you're like I just like want to spend time with you. Like you're not really somebody who's like meant to work with all these strangers or people where it's like you clock in, clock out. Like there's got to be like a real connection. And I even remember my experience with you. Like I was on your podcast many years ago and like your first impulse was like I'm going to connect you to her. I want you to be on her podcast. Like the magic of fours is that like opportunities come for them through their community, but they're also such magical connectors and so influential in their community. That's so interesting. So when people are not again when people aren't on that's when that what we were just talking about is expressed when they're not doing that thing. So, and and I feel that same way like if I'm feeling off or things aren't going well, that's when we should lean into what did you just share? What is that called? The fraction number and that's with the profile. I think it's a great time to lean into that for you to like lean into your relationships. And this is not around the fact that like you've got to be a big networker. It's more around like if your opportunities come through the people that you know, how can you really curate the people around you that feel most aligned? Because that's what will birth aligned opportunities. You know, if you're kind of in a lot of friendships that no longer feel true to you, like it's going to be hard for that to really, you know, be how it's meant to be. Um, yeah. It's interesting because right I'm I'm needing to create new opportunities in my company and because I spent so much time creating relationships that were more aligned with the business choices that I was making you know over the past 10 years which is great. A lot of opportunities came because I worked really hard on beautiful relationships in the event space in the book world in the personal development world. And now what I'm finding is I like feel so deeply I have to really create new relationships in you know the female founder world in the founder world men women anyone who has a product people who understand this industry because I don't think that I have I must connect the two but I haven't necessarily connected the two that I'm like I know I have opportunities that come by way of that so I have to start switching like gears into creating those relationship ship. So, that's huge to know like it's not just about focusing on meeting those people because you want to meet them or you want to learn from them, but really it is going to be how opportunities are created. It is. And like you do have a bit of a reflector vibe in your design and and that you're like incredibly sensitive to your physical space and you really amplify the energy that you're around. So, I think a good question to ask yourself is like if I'm going to amplify the energy I'm around, like what energy do I want to amplify? you know, is it around being around more founders, more people building products, whatever the thing is, like you are going to like magnetize so much when you're in that space. So, it's like, how can I put myself in those spaces more because like once I'm in it, so much happens. Oh, I I don't know if I remember that the reflector part, but that makes so much sense because I'm actually obsessed with creating platforms that amplify people. Yeah, totally. And you feel spaces so deeply. I'm so excited to share this. You guys know I never shy away from big scary leaps, those super messy, what the heck am I doing moments and this is Small Business just kicked off a new season and it's all about risk. You know, I'm obsessed with this topic because that's what it takes. The host Andrea Marquez takes us behind the scenes with fearless founders who turn their maybe later ideas into heck yes, let's go adventures. These episodes have it all. They have raw stories of grit, honest advice, and so much inspiration. I got full body goosebumps listening. I was nodding along thinking this is exactly the kind of fuel we all need when chasing our big dreams. So, if you need that extra push to go after your own hell yes vision, you have to check this out. Go follow this is Small Business on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you listen, I can't wait for you to hear it. The hardest part about starting a business is often getting started. Build your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Starting your business should be simple. Get more when you start your business with Northwest Registered Agent. Your entire business identity in just 10 clicks and 10 minutes. Northwest Registered Agent has been helping businesses launch and grow for nearly 30 years. If you want to build your business while keeping your personal information secure, Northwest is the partner you need. In just 10 clicks and 10 minutes, they'll form your business, create a custom website, and set up your local presence wherever you need it. Form your business for just $39 plus state fees. Backed by real business experts with decades of experience. Protect your identity and keep your home address private by using Northwest Address on your information documents. Don't wait. Protect your privacy. Build your brand and set up your business in just 10 clicks in 10 minutes. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/earn and start building something amazing. Get more with northwestregistered agent at northwestregisteredagent.com/earn. A few years back, Chris and I decided to go on this incredible European vacation, and we were so looking forward to it. We were really excited, but we were also really nervous. Now, the nerves only came because we were going to be gone for 30 days. You guys, I have never done a vacation over 10 days. And I'm pretty sure I worked on that vacation as well. So, going on a 30-day long European vacation where I could be totally disconnected, not by my choice, just gave me a little bit of anxiety. Now, looking back, I am so grateful that we got to go all over Spain. We went all over Greece because I got so much perspective on my business and so many creative ideas. And while we're on trips like that that are so needed, I also love the idea of our home getting to be a space for someone else's getaway from their everyday schedule while making a little extra cash. And maybe some of you heard that we were gone for 30 days and thought, "How in the world could I ever do that?" Well, now Airbnb has a co-host network that can help with hosting details for you. So, while you're away, you could be making money on your home. So, with the co-host network, you can hire quality local co-host to support you with everything from creating your listing to managing reservations, messaging guests, and more. Find a co-host at airbnb.com/host. The other part of your profile I wanted to make sure to share about because I think you're in such a beautiful time for it. You also have a six in your profile. So if y'all are listening and you've looked up your profile and you are 62 63 46 or 36, this should also be applicable to you. It means that you're somebody who is a very natural role model, a very natural teacher. And you're a role model not because you're like I'm the boss, listen to me. You're a role model because like you're just embodying it. Like you're just living it. You're like learning the lessons. like you being so authentically you really inspires others to be authentically them. But there are a couple pieces that I want to make sure to mention. One is that like you're somebody who really needs to kind of step back and take a higher perspective on things. So like I always say like if you're super in the weeds of your business all the time. It can be really easy to get quite pessimistic. So giving yourself the space to kind of pull back and see things is the thing that kind of helps you regain your natural optimism. M mhm. The other piece is that you are somebody who's meant to live your life in three phases. Do you remember this piece? Mm-m. Okay. So, the first three 30 years of your life was meant to be a time of like tremendous trial and error. It was just like how many things can I throw against the wall. Like it's a time of experimentation, not a time to figure everything out. 30 to 50, the moment you're in now, is a time where things might become a lot clearer. You're kind of very clear on like what's worth the investment, what's not. You're still experimenting, but probably a little bit less intensely. You might find that you're really kind of processing all the things that you've been through, learned. You are somebody who's meant to hit your prime when you turn 50. Isn't that the best? I have the same thing. Best news ever. Ever. And like it's just like meant to keep getting better and better and better. Like you are technically in this moment in your life where you're kind of on the roof like observing it all. And like 50 is when you're kind of like ready to come off the roof and you're like here I am like here to shine and ready to go and like and and again you become such an embodied source of wisdom. And I think that when I work with people that are over 50 with this profile, like when they speak, their words have such gravity. Like they speak and everyone's like, "What is this person saying?" So like, and and I would say why it's such a cool phase that you're in is that I feel like when I sit with people, which I often do, that are in their 40s with a six in their profile, like they're in this like really wild transitional time where it feels like they are just becoming increasingly intolerant to anything that's not like fully fully aligned. And so like I often watch like a lot of things change in their life in those moments because I feel like in some ways they're preparing whether it's consciously or not to like be like I really am here to guide and be a role model for others. So like what do I need to change in my own life to kind of be in full integrity in every single area. I love that. That is really I feel like the the years that I'm stepping into for sure is what is getting in the way of me doing the things that I really enjoy the most that make me feel the most me like where I feel the most satisfied where Because, you know, I think the cool part about getting older too is it's not selfish to do that at all. When I feel the best, when I am most satisfied, everyone around me thrives and I'm clear on that. I teach them how to make money or I make them money or I um am able to help them or I'm able to get them clear when I am not in a good place. Like all of that, all of that is not working. And I think that, you know, I could have never said this in my 30s, but I'm super aware of what I do for people. And if I don't like it's it I think that's why it feels like the stakes are even higher to make sure that I'm doing what I'm here to do. And when I'm not I get really frustrated like Yeah. Well, I'm so glad you said that because I feel like generators often underestimate the impact of their energy on others specifically how they feel about their work and how they're using their energy. Like when you are lit up by what you're doing, like your energy is so magnetic and like such a light and basically powers and lifts up everybody around you. And when you are frustrated like your energy is sluggish and like people feel that and I say in the book I'm like nothing beats being around a lit up generator because it's true like when they are lit up like we all benefit. I'm married to a generator when he's like excited. It's just like we're all like buzzing and bubbly and so like I'm so glad you're so aware of that because I feel like a lot of generators I work with like don't quite realize that and still think it's selfish but it's like actually the most generous thing they can do. It can move people like it it's so into the like into their whatever they're supposed to be doing. And I just that is so powerful and it's like that that would be the sweet spot if I could be in that all the time. I'm not I'm not there yet at all. Like I still get very very caught up and in the weeds and all the things. So I need I need to read your book again. But one thing that I um Oh, first I want to dive into this because I am neurotic about spaces to the point where I feel like I have a tick. Like it's meant to be. It freaks my husband out. Like now he since we did the human design thing together, but I had like kind of forgotten about it, but he'll mention it sometimes. Like to the point where we'll be in the house and he'll move something and I'm like, "You literally cannot move that chair there. I feel it." Like it it stops the flow of energy for me. and he's like, "You're so weird." And I'm like, "You have to move that lamp back over or you have to push this thing over." Or we'll go to a restaurant. We just went to a restaurant last week and I was sitting on the opposite side and there was something about the window and the lighting that was driving me crazy. And I was like, I I am so sorry, but I have to sit on the other side of this table. And he's like, "You drive me absolutely crazy with this." Now, when I'm with friends, I totally just deal with all of the [\h__\h] and I I'm quiet as much as I can because I just don't want to be that person. I don't. And even if it was like some of my friends are fine with it and there's a lot that I do, but my with my husband, it's like whatever. I'm going to get my way because I just feel better and I want to fully enjoy this dinner 100% not 80%. But it is so real. I can't even tell you. Oh, yeah. I just love that you say that because I yeah I don't know if we talked about this the last time but like you are somebody who being in the right space changes everything for you and I mean that in the small and big ways like being in a home that you love living in a city that you love like going to a restaurant and being at a table you actually like going into a hotel and not liking it like giving yourself permission to go like you are meant to be so meticulous about your surroundings and so high maintenance about your surroundings um and and high maintenance like not in an annoying way but in a way that you're really sensitive and it's so important for the people around you to know that and Like again, like they're getting the best out of you. Like if you go to a restaurant with Chris and you're like, I don't like this table, like it's actually going to be hard to like drop into and have like the best experience. So like the vibe makes such a big difference. So I would say for you, I love that you are as meticulous as you are because it you take it in in a really big way and it really impacts you. This was cool to learn because for anybody listening who does events, you might have this in your chart as well because um you know this has blessed me with events because I truly know like the reason why people tell us our events are some of their favorite events is because I think my husband has a bit of this too. Like we feel it like the room has to be on, the room has to look good. We, you know, we always look for natural lighting. We like to set the tables up a certain way. like it has to have a certain flow to it. Like events like I can feel the energy of the people in the back of the room. Like every single experience in every single spot I have to like I'm aware of what's going on and how it's feeling. And sometimes I feel like I go to events and I'm like oh I don't think this person has that. That's totally that's okay. But you know to be able to like look at what you have some people might be listening to this and be like that is so high maintenance. But it has served me so deeply. If you come to my events, you will appreciate that I have this in my design. I mean, honestly, it's such a gift. My husband has this and I love being around people that have this because like there's just such an attention to space that is like for me like I love the vibe of a space. I'm very attuned to that, but like I just don't have the same awareness of like what needs to happen. And like it's been it's so nice to be around people that have this because like it just makes everything feel better. Oh my gosh. And I promise you, like we'll always be at the best hotels. We'll be at the best tables. You're going to have the best experience because I literally can't tolerate the other stuff. I used to be able to, but not anymore. I'm like, "No, no, we only do this once." And I want to feel good in every like I work so hard. I want to feel good in every moment. So now I really do try to just like even if I'm with girlfriends, I'll just like be so kind to, you know, maybe a hostess or whoever. like I will ask for specifically what will create a better experience for all of us. So I love that. Um and then another thing that you talked about was I've always felt really picky about like why do I need to be in a certain area? Do I really need to be by water or am I just being like a psychopath? Because I think I told you I I don't remember this. No, I think we talked after that or I think you did our design uh before this, but you had told me that I always need to live near near water and I'm like I actually know this, but I moved to the desert and it was the worst experience of my entire life. Like I actually felt no it was so good for personal development and all of the things and being like how can you know you look for something amazing today? I did all the things. I'm so deeply into personal development. I journaled. I, you know, saw the the the people who could try to help me that I just I literally did everything. Aaron, it was like I couldn't drop in. Like I don't know how to explain this. I always say this to my husband. I said, I have no other way to tell you except I felt like I was living on a movie set. It wasn't real. I couldn't get grounded and I felt like I was burning up. Like I my skin was so dry. I my eyes were dry for the you know we were there like half the year for like 3 years and I couldn't get grounded. It felt like I was waiting and that I was in a simulation. That is so wild. You know I think the idea we all have like optimal environments in human years as shores. I think that like the idea with the environment is that like our environment is like where we kind of meet the least resistance and have the most flow. And so it also kind of makes sense that in an environment that did that wasn't aligned and wasn't correct like it felt impossible to get into any kind of flow. Mhm. Like it felt like it was just a pause. Yeah. A that's what it felt like. It felt like a pause and I couldn't understand why I couldn't like feel like I could get started there. I absolutely was still able to move business forward. What was so surprising is that there is an incredible community there of women and my best friend lived there and yet I still just was like I have to get out. I need to leave. I'm not supposed to be here. And so that was really shocking to me because I thought and actually like moved into my dream house there. Like it was it was all the things. But I was willing like if Chris would have said we're leaving tomorrow, I would have been like great, let's go. Isn't that insane? So, I do think there's a lot to be said about where where you actually live locationwise. But I do want to share with anyone who feels like if they're not in the right spot in their life, like I was still very much able to move things forward. I got the most valuable lessons out of that of like sometimes life is on a pause. Whether it's you don't want to live somewhere or that you just had a baby and you're in a different moment in your life or whether you know you had to go move with your husband because he took a job or your partner, those seasons can really teach us a lot. And it it really did. It taught me a lot. So yeah. And I think it's also like so powerful that you also decided to leave because I feel like sometimes it's like a sunk cost thing where it's like we've already done it. We're here. It's so much to go. But like I think that it's Yeah, it's it's nice to hear that you're like and still we're allowed to leave, you know, and still this isn't right. And like yeah, you being in the right space and and you're right, it doesn't have to make sense. It likely won't. The quality of the space is not about like the nicest place. It's about the place that just like is there and you feel possibility, you feel ease, you feel like belonging. You're like this is the place for me. Yes, totally. Do you have any of that in yours or what what's one of yours that's quirky? My Well, so I have many quirky things. I would say my environment in human design is called kitchens, which is not about like living in a kitchen obviously, but it's about the value of being in spaces where it feels like things are happening, where it feels like you're part of something. And you know, I lived in New York City for a long time and moved to the woods in 2021. So, I kind of moved totally out of that environment. So, I think it's been really important for me to kind of find ways when I need that stimulation to just like be part of things, you know, whether it's like a coffee shop or a co-working space or traveling, whatever the thing is, like knowing how and when to access it. The one that I thought was quirky is around my eating. It goes into our digestion and mine is called nervous, which basically means like it's really good for me to eat, but like I'm stimulated by a lot of other things. So like weirdly like eating while standing up or like while walking or like going for walks before or after before and after I eat is good for me which like I totally always felt and also felt like totally like this is so strange and so human design was just so validating that I was like that's perfectly fine. Wow. So it even goes into like how you should eat. It honestly goes into all the things. It's not probably the piece I would recommend diving into at first because there's so many more kind of like tactical day-to-day things. But yeah, it is human design is so endless in the amount of information it can offer us. Yeah, you guys can already see how learning this with your partner like you're going to get the book and just want all of your friends to read it. So just buy multiple copies because you're going to feel so alone in your conversation if you don't. Yeah, I had Yeah, it's so fun because our friends now like, you know, we'll meet for like a a girlfriend date or like a mastermind or something and it's like, okay, just upfront, what are you and you know, what are you? What do you need? Who are you? Like it's it's so helpful. So, do all of your friends like do all of your friends know this and understand this? You know, it's so funny. I would say a lot of my friends in New York City did, but like I have since I moved to the Hudson Valley. I mean, I would say most of my friends up here don't know their design, you know? And like it's it's so interesting cuz I think there was a version of myself where I like had to know everybody. Yeah. You know, and like I also feel like in this version right now, it's like I let it come when it comes, you know, and like then they'll be like, "Okay, I looked it up. I'm a manifesttor." But like I definitely just don't force it now. Um but you can probably already tell what they are. I can sense with her usually but also I will say that like it is such a game changer in friendships you know it's like it has it has changed my life in terms of knowing how to interact with my partner with my kids with my parents with people that I work with and so I think when people are ready for it it's like so fun you know but I as as a projector who's meant to be invited in I try not to force it until people ask yeah I love that also also just force it I'm just kidding okay so what do you want um people to get from this book or what do you think they're going to get? You know, I think my dream why I wrote this book is that this book is not a human design textbook. This book is not like I'm going to walk you through every intricacy of the chart because honestly it's impossible. I have offerings around that. It's more around like how can you practically use this in your life? How can you use it to get out of stuckness and in a flow in your career? How can you use it to better understand a partner or a child or friend? How can you use it to make decisions that feel easeful and more aligned? like it's meant to be a resource that you come back to again and again. You know, I sat with somebody yesterday who has it like on our bedside table because she's like, I just like need these reminders all the time. And so this book is very much like a practical exploration of how you can use your human design to change your life. And it's meant to be, you know, a resource that you don't just read once. And I think to your point, like my real dream is that people just read the chapters about the people they care about most because it is such a game changer and really knowing how to interact with them. That's so great. Well, I am going to make sure that the book is linked below for you guys. It's out now. You can go and grab it. Trust me, it will be not only enlightening, but so entertaining. It's like it it's so much fun. It's one of the most fun, connective, enlightening things that you can do. And it's easy. It's not It's not too complex. Um, you know, we've done this with our family. We've done this with our employees. And it's it has been useful every single time. I want to do it with everyone that I know. I pretty much ask what everybody is once I get to know them. Oh, good. So, I'm totally that girl. But, we will uh put the link to the book below. Go and grab it. Grab one for your bestie cuz like I said, you're literally not going to not want to know what they are. I know. Going to change the game for them. Um, but you also have the blueprint, which is what we just went through for me. So, it's the really, really indepth version of what you are. So, I know that we were going to give a discount code if you could share about that. Yeah. So, we offer kind of hyperpersonalized guides all about your unique design. Just so you know how custom they are. There are 400,000 possible variations of the guide, which is crazy. And you can use the discount code happy and that's at humanesignbloopprint.com. And we also offer human education if you want to dive into everything. And that discount code will apply to that as well. You're so amazing. Thank you for doing that. And you guys, I highly recommend it. Um, again, get family, friends, blueprint, just people who people who you're close with. I think we did this on like a Saturday uh with a group of friends. Like we all just got our blueprints and it was the most fun thing ever. So it could be a really cool activity that you do. You know, I'm all about those experiences, Erin. So I'm grateful for you and you guys go and check everything out. Erin, what's your handle on Instagram? Aaron Claire Jones and Human Design Blueprint. All right. Awesome. We will connect that as well. And until next time, everyone, earn your happy. Bye-bye.