Think about your selfimage like it is the core of an onion and there are all these layers outside of it. You can try to change the outside layers like your habits for example. But if you are trying to change a habit and you haven't changed your self-image first that is why you keep failing. You haven't changed your self-image yet. You have not changed how you see yourself yet. That is what magnetized certain opportunities and people towards me. That is how I have been able to feel confident in certain decisions that I make. It's because that self-image came first before the thing manifested. Mimi, welcome to the Earn Your Happy podcast. Thank you so much for coming on the show. Thank you for having me, Lori. I'm so happy to be here. You know, we were just chatting before this and I told you this is perfect timing for my life and perfect timing for the podcast listeners because I think the last like three or four solo episodes that I've done are all about visualization, manifesting, and I don't necessarily have tools for them. So, this is the most perfect timing because you are kind of the queen of helping people create what they want in their lives. We're going to deep dive today, you guys. Like, we're not just going to talk about manifesting, visualization, meditation, all the tools and tricks, but you're going to walk away with like actual tangible activations and we're going to talk about that. So, Mimi, how you know, if you could share a little bit about what you do right now, what your app is that I'm so excited about and then just what got you into that in the beginning? Absolutely. So, my journey started about a decade ago. I was getting really into personal development after going through a pretty tough period in my life. I was at a point where I didn't really recognize myself when I was looking in the mirror. I had a deep amount of self-hatred. I hated how I looked, how I felt. I didn't like who I was becoming. And that's when I found personal development. And it really did save me at the time. So, I became addicted to it because the more work that I did on myself, the more that I read about how my potential is limitless in this world, the more that I researched how we could actually be the creator of our lives, that we are 100% responsible for our lives. And here's why, you know, when when I looked into the neuroscience behind how visualization worked and how you can actually train your brain to be different, your thoughts to be different. The more that I dived into this work, the better I felt, right? So I went from being very unhappy in every aspect of my life. There was nothing really going for me at that time. And then I did the work and and I got really into this personal development work about a decade ago. So that's kind of the beginning stages. I I dived into it. I became kind of obsessed with it for people listening because I think like what what does that where exactly emotionally were you at? Like what were you feeling every day? Was there something specifically that was going on that was like holy [\h__\h] like this needs to change? Like I have to change my reality. What did that look like for you? A lot of shame and anxiety and selfhatred. Um I was living paycheck to paycheck. I at one point had like under $10 in my bank account. I was trying to hustle, trying to make my dreams a reality. I wanted more. I wanted a bigger life. And there was this feeling of stuckness because I knew deep down that I could create something different for myself, but I just wasn't doing it. And I kept doing the things that I knew were bad for me. Drinking a lot, doing drugs, you know, not treating myself with respect. I also just had deep confidence issues. I felt very unsure of myself. I allowed other people to really just dictate a lot in my life. And um I didn't feel healthy from a physical standpoint. I was like 30 lbs heavier and just didn't like how I felt in my body. Felt very puffy all the time. I didn't have any relationship. I had never had a relationship at that point in my life. And I was, you know, really yearning for love in my life. I felt very alone. the friends that I had didn't feel real. Kind of every area, you know, to be totally honest with you. Um was was not great. I also was struggling with eating disorder and and just really not liking myself through and through. So, I was numbing out. I was on my phone a lot. I was numbing out with food. I was numbing out with drinking and drugs. I just, you know, was in this place where nothing was going right. And so I I went through this radical change and it started like I mentioned reading books, you know, just absorbing everything that I could about this work and seeing that light at the end of the tunnel. And and I always had that that voice deep inside of me that I believe every single person has. Everyone listening has that little voice of what if, you know, what if life could be better? What if I could experience more? What if I could actually do that thing and live this type of existence? my one chance at life, my one opportunity on on this beautiful earth as a human. You know how like what if I could actually live this amazing existence? So that voice got louder and louder the more clear I got, the less numb that I felt. And this just happened gradually with me starting to prioritize myself more. And listen, it wasn't this overnight. I had a an epiphany and I changed. It wasn't that because if it was going to be that, I would have waited forever. It had to be these small incremental changes every day, right? But the longer that I went through this journey, the more that I saw what was working and what I actually saw tangible results from and what was not working, the things that I would do. And I'm like, I don't feel any different. Nothing is changing. So, I think um due to my obsession with trying to find shortcuts and trying to get things done quickly and you know, I'm very impatient just as a person. I think that benefited me in the sense because I actually started to to figure out what worked in transformation in total life transformation and um what didn't work. So, you know, I gathered all the information that I absorbed from, you know, those mentors, those books, those seminars, those, you know, all of those unlimited pieces of, you know, educational content that I consumed online at the time. And I still have a very, you know, hu huge interest in in, you know, the the science of it all, the neuroscience of it all, the quantum physics theories to support, you know, all of this manifestation work. I'm very interested in all of it. And I actually just released a book a couple months ago with Hay House called Activate Your Future Self. And that is so much research that I've gathered over the years in one book. So I'm I'm kind of obsessed with understanding why and figuring out the best easiest way to get there. So long story short, I started doing all the things, okay? I did what all those specialists, mentors, teachers told me to do to change my life. And a lot of it started to, you know, really work. Uh slowly but surely. I started journaling more. I started, you know, clearing up my friendship circle and realizing I'm an average of of the five people I surround myself with most. I started to go out less, drink less, and be more introspective and spend a lot more time alone. And journaling was actually a big part of this at the time. And then I, you know, tried to meditate. That was one of the things everyone says that you should do is meditate. And I just couldn't stick to it. That was the one thing that I felt a lot of resistance um with this meditation. And listen, I know meditation is good for you if you want to calm your nervous system and clear your thoughts and feel at peace and that's great, but that's not really what I was seeking at the time. What I was seeking is something energizing, something invigorating, something that made me feel that that morsel of inspiration when I'd listen to that little gut feeling inside of me. It'd come in a fleeting moment and it fall away and that inspiration would dwindle. I wanted to bottle up that feeling of like inspiration and excitement towards my future. And I wasn't really getting that with meditation. I also felt it was very hard to sit and close my eyes for 20 minutes and sit still and you know try to clear my head. Like I wasn't it didn't make sense to me. Why am I trying to do this? I'm trying to radically transform my life. This is what I'm trying to do here. I'm trying to get out of being broke. I'm trying to improve my relationship with myself. you know, like find love, like be my best self, you know, create a successful career for myself. I didn't see how calming my mind was going to help me get there. But then I was reading a lot about visualization and about how, you know, our brains are are able to be rewired. Neuropathways are able to be, you know, reset. And so I wanted to get the benefits of an audio that would help me feel a certain way and rewire my mind. And once I, you know, decided, you know what, meditation is just not working for me. I intuitively took out my phone one day, and this was about 8 years ago. I took out my phone and I opened the voice memo app on my phone and I recorded my first, little did I know it was going to be called an activation, but I recorded my first activation on my voice memos. And this was a visualization focus, motivational audio describing my future, getting myself into the energy of my future self mixed with, you know, just deep inspirational words. And then I'd also layer in music. I brought that audio to Garage Band. And I started getting obsessed with inspirational cinematic music because we all know that music just has a way at changing our state, right? So, I started to layer in this inspiring music and then I'd create like five of these and then I get bored of them and I wanted to create more. So, I literally had a library of dozens of these because you kind of get bored of them quickly. You want to just listen to new fresh content sometimes. But, I listen to these audios in everyday moments. Okay? I was This is just my personal transformation tool. I didn't really share with anyone. I'd listen to these audios when I was on the bus going to one of my four jobs at the time. I would listen to these audios cooking dinner in my tiny 200 foot apartment studio apartment. I would listen to these audios, you know, in the morning when I was getting ready. And I'm telling you, Lori, the if you're looking at this like a graph, the bell curve of how quickly my life started to transform when I started listening to these activations, it was insane. It was like this exponential growth. And I had been working on myself for a couple years, you know, before that point before I started activating. But but really the stark difference was just surreal. And then years later, I decided, you know, I'm just going to share a few of these, make them more general, and share them with the world. And that's kind of how I'm where I am today. You know, I I launched activations out four years ago, and it's been insane the growth that we've seen. I've never done any traditional marketing. It's been word of mouth, people telling people they've tried it and it changed their lives. We have like tens of thousands of success stories. So, it's definitely been something I think a lot of us needed, something that we could have its back, a new type of audio that's cinematic, that's motivational, that makes you feel like you're the main character in your own movie. And that's when I created Activations. And you can't really find anything like it anywhere else. Oh my god. We have a scary similar story. Um, like scary. So, well, I I you know, when I was younger, I was really into just Yeah. all the things, alcohol, drugs, really bad friendship circle. And I kind of started doing the same thing, books, courses, lectures. I went to an event in 2014 by Jack Canfield and he taught us how to do that, record our own activate, like an activation, but a visualization. You just success with Jack Canfield. My first personal development book that I read was the success principles. Yeah, I went to that event. So, I went to train the trainer. So, it was a three-week training and this really started this journey of you guys, I can attest to everything she's saying. And, you know, while I've done this for programs and recorded some for myself, I I love that you've gone all in because the world needs it more than ever because it is truly what changed my life as well. So, I can I can sit here and say everything she's saying is so important because I I had started trying to do the same thing. Like I started meditating and while I hit a really good streak for about a year, like 20 minutes a day, I got certified in transcendental meditation. I just I'm a mover. Like I'm a runner. I'm super active. I've been a fitness girl my entire life. And so for me, it wasn't until I actually I started running, you know, three, four times a week and I'd run for like six miles three or four times a week and I would listen to like a lecture or that's when I like did the Jack Canfield thing and would record some different things and play it back to myself and I feel like that is when I just get you just get lit up like it gets into your cells. I believe moving with a quote unquote meditation and why I love you're doing activations is truly we'll talk about that particular word as well. But when people have asked what has changed my life, it is because I go out and I move with something in my ears where I am picturing my life specifically on something. And so I know we're going to talk about so many things, but this is why I love your app so much is because you got really really specific about different activities. It's like listen to this uh you know activation while you're cleaning your house for X Y and Z. And so it's we're going to I'll talk about exact titles, but you get so specific with every little moment in your life. you can be listening to these different things. And I am like I'm just going to preach for a minute because it's like we need to be putting these thoughts in our head as much as possible because otherwise the world, social media, you know, Netflix, like whatever you're watching, it's going to try to get you down. It's going to try to sidetrack you. It's going to try to break your energy, pull you out of that energy. It is not easy to stay in that high vibration. And since I've really been doing this, even in the last month again, I'm back in it because I got a little bit away from it, I am like a [\h__\h] magnet. Like truly, yes, I think you need to plug this in. And so that brings me to my question. Like let's really get into like activations like what exactly are they? Why are they different from meditations, you know, from just like sitting there? What does it actually do? what's what's kind of the science behind it? Yeah, absolutely. So, activations are a new type of audio that I've developed. They're not a podcast, not a meditation, not just music. It's a new category of sound. And this category of sound is personal development, manifestation, visualization turned all the way up in and packaged in a way that makes it so accessible. You know, I'm a big habit stacker. I'm like always doing five things at a time. And that's actually originally why I couldn't stick to meditation because I was trying to think of a hundred things and I thought I was failing at that. But little did I know that was actually one of the gifts that I have is I'm able to, you know, do a ton of things at once and think in a different way. And when I started to just lean in to that benefiting me and not being something I should be ashamed of, everything started to change. So traditional meditation is about calming the mind. And then you have visualization which is just a term you know you can do visualization while you're writing and journaling and visualization you can do anywhere anytime but activations really brings and heightens this visualization you know brain rewiring component alongside the very powerful music that we use and this changes your energy changes your state very quickly all together into an activation. So activations are the opposite to meditation. They're energizing. You listen while you're running errands, while you're doing your makeup in the morning, while you're walking. The walking activations are my absolute favorite. The cooking ones, you know, there's a jazzy activation for while you're cooking after a long day when you just want to reconnect to your best self. Every every activation in the app, and we have over 700 activations in the app at this point, every single one is designed to have you change your state by the end of it. So you feel the results quickly with me in meditation. You know, I definitely see how meditation over time like you did it for a year. I'm sure over time you see a big difference, but I never saw a difference immediately. It was and I'm impatient. Remember like I wanted the quick change. So activation immediate like it makes you feel different immediately and that is largely in part 50% of the equation other than the guided visualization and words that we use in the audios 50% of the equation is the music that we use I use and I've sourced globally some of the best TV and movie composers that there are I'm talking people that are like the next Han Zimmer you know like serious incredible incredible artists that literally design and create this music to make you feel like you are transforming. And this is instructing your brain subconsciously telling yourself, I am in the midst of a transformation. I am becoming my future self. I am already my future self. When you listen to this music, all it takes is just one activation to change your state like crazy. You actually feel like the main character of your life. And it doesn't take any extra time. This is simple. It's almost effortless just to listen in the background. And I even say that even if you're not consciously listening to the words, it's still getting into your subconscious. And the quality of these, I think, also sticks out when it comes to an audio platform. I'm quite a perfectionist when it comes to creating these audios. As I've mentioned, I'm sourcing these, you know, amazing composers globally around the world. one of my audio engineers and I spend a lot of time putting together the tracks and and putting together the visualizations and the moment that a song drops, saying a certain word to make you feel a certain way. I am very obsessed with this cinematic experience. And I think that also is one of the big things that makes us stand apart. Everything has to feel cinematic. I want everyone listening to feel like they're the main character in their life. I can get into the science behind why this helps you transform as well, but I'll stop there and, you know, just say that you use activations like you listen to a podcast. Like when I'm in the mood to listen to a podcast, I listen to a podcast. I'm in the mood to learn and actually like be quite engaged, you know, in my brain. Like I want to learn something. I want to tangibly hear, you know, conversation, right? And then I listen to music when I'm in a certain mood, too. Maybe I just don't want any voice and I just want something to tune out to. Maybe it's a certain workout and I just really need to tune out. And then I listen to an audio book when I'm in another mood. And then I listen to an activation when I'm in the mood to shift my energy and feel really alive and invigorated. And that could be in any moment of the day. If I didn't have time to journal one morning because I like to journal a lot. I'll listen to an activation while I'm getting ready and then I feel the same results if not more. So this is really something that you can use with your day. You can have it stacking. You don't have to carve out time from your day. We're already all so busy. So, a lot of our users just use this in their daily life. They listen to one in the background once a day, three times a week, and they feel the shift, and it's really created a notable difference in tens of thousands of women's lives. I think one of the biggest things that you said that is the easiest thing that people can do and whether you're listening to this and you're like uh I don't know if that works it it works because what happens is when you are deciding what you're going to be thinking about for the day that is what you're focused on and that's what you start seeing like you're going to start seeing possibility rather than if I wake up and I'm thinking of what I need to do that day and what's going wrong and what is scary about the I literally get more of that if if I have a big to-do list in my head. Guess how I'm going to feel all day. Like I'm never going to get it done. And that's the energy that I'm in is like this pressure, this like there's not enough time. How am I going to get this done? Oh my gosh, the world is so scary. Like this is how this is generally what I would say majority of the population is walking around with. And they wonder why they have no energy to make anything happen. Because if your brain is focused on negative things, like your energy is so low because I used to do this to my my clients in the gym, Mimi, which is like so perfect for you to know that this is like so awesome and this works. So, I would be like asking my when I owned a gym, I would have them like be curling something heavy. I would have them with like an uncomfortable weight and I'd be like, "Okay, I want you to think the most positive thought like something awesome in your life, like something that's going to happen, something amazing while you're curling that weight." And I'm like, "How's it feel?" They're like, "Pretty good. I mean, it's really heavy." But then I would say, "Okay, I want you to think of something super sad, something really negative, something." And they would stop lifting. They're like, "I can't even lift this. Like, I feel so down." Like, they're like, "I literally feel like I can't even lift this anymore." And I'm like, that is literally the power of our thoughts. Like you can either feel like things are very doable, very tolerable, or when you're thinking negative, nothing in your life is going to feel tolerable. And that's why if you don't have people or friends in your life, like I didn't in the beginning, I paid for them. Whether it was a lecture, an app, an event or podcast, whatever, an audio book, I was like, I need other people to be filling in my brain right now while I am choosing, you know, if I was left up to my own devices, I'm choosing negative thoughts. So, this is why you guys, it's so cool. Like this morning, um, while I was putting my makeup on, Mimi, I listened to set goals for your day and feel inspired and, um, which is one of our activations. And what I loved is that you were asking me like getting me intentionally into a place of like what would be like the most important thing for me to do today essentially like what would move the needle the most for like what I want. I was like that's such a great intentional question that I think we forget to ask ourselves because we get so caught up in like the mundane and things we have to do. So this is the type of thing you guys that you'll be experiencing if you do it. It's just questions we should be asking oursel and kind of like that refocusing. So, who do you who do you think activations are really for? Well, a lot of our users are in a place in their life where they might be going through a transition or they're feeling stuck. A lot of our users come when they're feeling stuck, like they feel like, you know, there's more to some area of their life. Listen, we have some users that come and try to, you know, change a complete 180 every aspect of their life, but we also have users that live a pretty good life and they're pretty grateful for the life that they live, but they just want to feel more alive every day or they just want to feel a bit more connected to themselves or they just want to be a bit happier in their day-to-day life. We have a lot of success stories with people that have used the app and some of my favorites are actually in my book, but I can share one of them with you. So, we have this one um woman named Ally that was using the app and she is a teacher, middle school teacher, and she, you know, had been pretty much making the same amount of money for years now. And, you know, teachers don't get paid enough. You know, she was not making a ton of money, and she was pretty stressed about the amount that she was making. So, she wanted to create more wealth in her life. and she actually heard me on a podcast a couple years ago cuz I do a lot of these and um she decided you know what I am going to just listen to these activations and take advantage of the twoe trial and I'm just going to go all in. You know what do I have to lose? So, she downloaded the app, went to the website to download the app, and I know just before I finish this story, you have a special link if everyone here wants to try the app um for 2 weeks completely free, plus a massive discount on the yearly if you want to stay subscribed. So, that's activations.com/happy. And by the way, we can only offer discounts on the website, not the app store. So, go to the website first to get the trial and then you can download the app after. But um so Ally basically did the same thing. She heard me on a podcast, went to the website, signed up, got the twoe free trial, went to the app store, downloaded the app, and then she just started listening probably once a day or 5 days a week. You know, she would just listen to these activations. A lot of the time it was the money focused ones. We have a lot of manifesting money and wealth and getting into your abundant energy activations. This is a really big category in the app because money is one of those things that you can really tune into with a new frequency and we can get into that later and the actual science behind how our bofields the energy inside and around us actually attract like energy and um how we can become the type of person that actually has a certain level of wealth that experiences wealth in a different way with our self-image. So going back to the point though, so Ally, she was listening to these activations in this two week free trial and she started feeling very different after listening just in the background of her life. I think she listened in the car while she was driving to to work. I think she'd listen to the anytime category then and maybe at night, you know, while she was getting ready for bed and it was just very casual. She didn't think much of it. It wasn't, you know, big deal. But she would listen to these, okay? And soon enough, she got this crazy random offer. Okay, one of her old students came to her with this like consulting gig and she basically doubled her income just from this one opportunity. And she doesn't think it's a coincidence that it was because she started doing this work and really tuning in and resetting her frequency. And to say the least, she's been subscribed for many years and she will be a forever subscriber. Um, she also just said that she felt completely different, you know, after using this for two weeks. And at the end of the day, you know, we live one life. We want to feel good. Our lives are are, you know, we feel like they're so long and big and and they are, but the reality is that our life is actually made up of the moment that we're in right now. In this exact moment, we are not experiencing the past or the future. We're only ever living in the moment. So, the quality of those moments is everything. So even if you know Ally didn't manifest this crazy opportunity that doubled her income that year, you know, she she says that she still loves to use this because it just makes her feel good, you know. So I love that you listened to the getting ready one this morning. It just changes your state. I'm I'm feel so passionate about this because for so long I felt so lost and for so long I felt like a shell of myself and I felt really sad that I wasn't reaching my potential in life and it really scared me to wake up one morning when I'm you know 85 years old and look back on my life and feel regret because that like connection with how short life is really started to get to me at that that point in my life and it really started to scare me. So, you know, really just doing everything I could to tune into that potential to create the life of my dreams and to now hear how this work has helped so many people feel the same. Like that's the biggest why for me, Lori. Honestly, it's like we should all have the gift of feeling good every day. I just want to feel good. This is what this work is about. It's about feeling good and creating a beautiful future for yourself. And that shift internally really exudes externally with your energy, your bio field. I write about this in my book. We all have biofields or energy fields some people call them that span 3 to six meters around us. And this is measured by science. Like you can measure bofields and our biofields are made up of energy and it comes from us. We are the source of this energy. And there are so many things to prove that this work works. That this work of of changing your beliefs of of really putting yourself out there and listening to new things and thinking new thoughts and designing a new self-image. There is literally proof everywhere that this works. I like to say this quote. I don't know where where it's from. I haven't been able to source it, but I heard it somewhere. And it says something like, you know, spiritualists will call it law of attraction, Christians will call it prayer, atheists will call it the placebo effect, scientists will call it quantum physics. It's literally the same thing in different languages. And personally, you know, I don't know exactly what I even believe in. I'm I'm kind of open to all potentials, but all I know is that there is the truth in between all of that, the same thing in different languages. And I've seen firsthand how it's transformed my life and thousands of others of lives that I've I've seen kind of through this work over time. And it's it's a really good time to start now. You know, I I feel like if we're even breaking it down at like the most basic level for like skeptical people, you know, which I think most people who listen to my podcast aren't, but for anybody who's just like, "Okay, how does this work?" You know, I want you to think about a time when you have been in a room and someone walks in and they're just like super outgoing. They're looking up. Their body language is super open. Their arms aren't crossed. They look like they want to talk to you. They're armed with questions that are amazing or a story. Like they're just you're like, "Whoa, how do some people just have it?" Like, you know, a woman walks in and you're like, "Whoa, what is that?" What that is is someone who's done a lot of work to feel confident, to feel certain, to like be exuding that energy. And on the most basic level, even talking about like if you were an employer, you know, I'm now an employer, it's like I want to work with the person who's enthusiastic, who's looking up, who's open, who has that great energy, who's like confident in what they do. And this is all work that is done by what we're talking about. Like you have to be thinking of what you want. You have to be thinking of who you want to be. You have to be visualizing that future self. And if we had to pick who we wanted to hang out with, who we wanted to hire, who we wanted in our circles, we would pick the people who are doing work like this mentally. Like they're not thinking negative thoughts. They're not of what they don't want in their life. So, this is really helping you become that person who quote unquote becomes a magnet and you're like, "Oh, why do they want to work with these people?" That's why. And the biggest thing is actually the the trick to all of this and simplifying the art of transformation. It all comes down to being the person you want to be now before the things that you want materialize into real world actual experiences. So the the whole, you know, basis behind the work that I do, the work that I teach, activations, it's all about training your self-image to be different. It's all about reprogramming your identity to be the future self now. That is all that it is. These activations help you live your future now. They help you step into your future self in this exact moment in time. And when you do that, everything in your life starts to change because it all starts when your self-image, your identity changes. Think about your self-image like it is the core of an onion and there are all these layers outside of it. You can try to change the outside layers like your habits for example, but if you have are trying to change a habit and you haven't changed your self-image first, that is why you keep failing and not being and you're not being consistent with that habit because you haven't gone to the root yet. You haven't changed your self-image yet. You have not changed how you see yourself yet. And that's what so many people get wrong. And that's why personal development and transformation gets so over complicated. I wish more people knew this. It's all about just changing your self-image first. And I can give a very simple example. You know, if you see yourself as the type of person who lives in a very fit, healthy body, okay, let's say, you know, for me, I used to hate working out. Now I love to go to my Pilates classes and I love to take care of my body. really really see myself as the type of person that lives in a body that is happy and healthy and looks and feels a certain way to be totally honest. So for me when I book in you know my Pilates class or decide to eat something healthy at a restaurant it comes naturally to me. There's no resistance in my mind thinking oh I really like you know sometimes of course I don't feel as inspired or motivated but my baseline is like oh yeah this is just what I do. It's how I treat myself. It's who I am, right? And the same thing would happen. I'm not a runner, but if I wanted to be, I would change my self-image first before starting to be a runner. You know, a runner would feel weird in the morning when they don't run. Like, you feel weird when you don't do that thing. Whereas someone who does not identify as a runner feels like it's really hard to go put your running shoes on in the morning and go for a run. The same thing goes when it comes to finances and career. I have seen firsthand what your self-image can do to your income. And let me tell you, it is everything. It is literally everything. I walk into a room now and I feel very confident in the level of success that I've achieved. And therefore, even before I achieved this level, by the way, I embodied this essence. And that is what created more of that into my life. That is what, you know, magnetized certain opportunities and people towards me. That is how I have been able to feel confident in certain decisions that I make and hiring certain people and in making these big moves. It's because that self-image came first before the thing manifested. So the self-image is massive. And if we want to stay on the topic of simplifying and transformation, I can tell you my two-step process to transformation. Yeah, go for it. So I again I like the quick route. I like the shortcut. I like change to be effortless. You know, listen, I am the type of person that wants the quick route that wants it now that is impatient. And this is what I have found to be true. If you want to condense any personal development book you've ever read or any, you know, esoteric book you've read, any scientific book you have read about personal transformation, it comes down to these two steps. The first step is clarity. To create your dream life, you must get crystal clear on who your future self is. You must get crystal clear on her frequency, on how it feels to be her energetically in your body. You need to know what it's like to be her now. Just in your body, physically, energetically, because your energy becomes a magnet to what it exudes, right? So clarity is number one. And the step number two is becoming. You must then become your future self in everyday moments, in the boring, mundane moments in your life. When you're waiting in line at the grocery store, when you're walking your dog in the morning, you need to just consistently show up as her. Show up as her in her energy. And that is exactly precisely what activations help you do. They help you rewire your brain in these everyday moments. be your future self in your five minute walk with your dog in the morning, when you're putting on your makeup, you know, when you're getting ready to go out, like in those everyday little moments when you are embodying your future self energy, you're taking advantage of classical conditioning. We've all heard of the Pavlov dog theory. Pavlov rings the bell, the dog salivates. Classical conditioning, pairing a new thought or a new action with a certain thought and putting them together and getting a visceral response in your body. So you can actually do that when you listen to activations. That's what they're designed to do. It's literally designed to hack transformation and it is so amazing that this exists because it makes it more effortless and more simple than ever before. So that is the trick. Clarity number one, you have to get clear first. You if you don't know where you're going, you just stop everything and start getting clear. That is all you need to do is step one. And step two is become your future self in everyday moments. And that is the trick. And I'm telling you, when I use this combination in areas of my life, things happen fast. Things happen so fast. My life, this success that I've experienced shouldn't have happened, Lori. And I pinch myself every day looking at this life. It shouldn't have happened. I'm 28 years old. I have a business worth 40, $50 million. I am living my dream life. I am I have two homes. I live between London and the Bahamas. I am in a beautiful relationship and I'm getting married next month. I feel like I have it all. My health is there. The people that I love, you know, are I have beautiful relationships with. I I genuinely feel like this life shouldn't have has it shouldn't have happened. It it was all too crazy, too quick. And all I did that was consistent in this time was do this work. I changed my self-image. I chose that I was going to be this type of person. I came from that place of not having anything, of not having that support from family. I come from two struggling artists parents. I love them. Bless them. But I didn't come for money. I created this fully myself. And I am dedicated for the rest of my life teaching people, you know, how to do the same thing cuz I'm not special. It shouldn't have happened to me. Anyone can do this. Anyone can create this dream life. And it starts with your energy. And it's so accessible. You don't even need to download activations if you don't want to. I don't don't do it if you don't want to. Do it yourself. Commit to yourself every day. Start journaling, writing down, getting clear on what you want. You can record your own voice memos. If you feel like it gets repetitive or boring or you want something that's already done for you, then you can try the twoe free trial. But you don't need to download the app to see these results. You can just do it yourself and try and put yourself first and and really just start to cultivate that relationship with yourself. And yeah, I think I've been going on a tangent for a while. I think what's so great about it, too, is I'm just thinking about, you know, when I I've now done like oh my gosh, I I think I've over 1400 episodes 1,400 episodes of this podcast and I've gotten to talk to the most incredible successful people. And you know, a lot of the people who I would say like really became unstoppable and just had insane businesses, they had somebody who breathed life into them. Like they they eventually got a mentor or or you know, some of them had parents who were just like, you know, telling them every single day what was possible and like breathing life into them. And I think for those of us who maybe did not have that, this is a version of that. Like you need something that breathes life into you every day and reminds you of who the [\h__\h] you are literally. And um and I'm so passionate about that, Mimi. Like I I literally put out a secret podcast like with that saying like everything like literally everything you're saying because you have to have something that you can cling on to that you can go to every single day to go and breathe life into you. And what I love about your app is that you have so many different like I was actually blown away. I was like this girl has been recording like does has she done anything else besides record these activations? There's 700 right over. Yeah, there is a lot. That's pretty much all I do. Um yeah, but you my passion. But listen, as a business owner, I I don't like doing the operational stuff. Like I I'm more of like the visionary. Like I like to create. I'm more c like I don't like I so I hire amazing people to do the rest. Um and at the beginning listen I didn't I wasn't able to hire the people to do the rest. So I had to go through times where I didn't like what I was doing and that's okay too. It's part of the process. But yes, the the recording is my art. It is literally and the the creation of these activations because I do them for myself. That's the thing. I create them for myself. I listen to these every day. So selfishly I want them to be perfect. You know what I mean? Um, but I want to reiterate something here because I know I mentioned, you know, the transformation that I've seen, especially financially in my life, but I'm thinking about how what who I'm speaking to right now and the audience I'm speaking to. I know there are a lot of insanely motivated women listening to this podcast. But I also just want to say that, you know, a successful life doesn't necessarily mean having tens of millions of dollars. If that's what you want, just know that you can create it. For me, financial a huge abundance was very important because I experienced a lot of lack and fear around money when I was growing up. You know, there there was a lot of lack um you know, my parents had to remortgage the house a cajillion times. Like we had a lot of lack around money. There were, you know, bankruptcies in the family. I felt very unstable. So, for me, money was actually a big motivator why I got into all of this work. But now, after creating all of this, I've realized it it also isn't everything. Like yes, money is amazing, but you're also, you know, you can create this amazing life with with just a beautiful, glorious, delicious life with love and happiness and friends and just enough to live the life you want to live. So every single person's clarity of what their future self life has will be different. I'm sharing mine, but we have people that have used activations that that really don't care as much about that. They care about other things. They care about their relationship with themsel. They care about the relationship they have with others helping, you know, the world in different ways. So, everyone will have their why, you know, and I just wanted to kind of reiterate that cuz sometimes I feel a bit weird talking about, you know, like where this transformation that I've had financially. And I just I want to make sure that everyone realizes that like whatever you want, you can have. It doesn't but you don't need to want the same things other people want. Totally. Well, I love money and talking about money on here. So, okay. Well, you're not going to know who we're talking to. Everyone who wants just a shitload of money is welcome on this podcast. Um, I have the same background. My parents went bankrupt. My husband and I lost our homes, lost our cars. We were $300,000 in debt. It became very clear to me that it was my duty to learn how to make a ton of money and share with how I could do that. And also, everyone is just like you said, everyone is also welcome. I have so many friends who are like, you know what, I'm so happy now that I'm making less money and that my family life is just I'm like way more in it. I get that. I I get that. And I can't say I'll be here forever. I might be in a totally different place in 5 years. I have no clue. I just know we all have different purposes, you know, such different purposes at different times in our life and we can have multiple purposes. So, I love that and your your app is so inclusive of that. Let's touch. You've you've already touched a lot on the science actually, but is there anything that you're like I literally have to share this because it was crazy when I learned it. Oh, okay. So, I'm kind of obsessed with this and you're going to love this, too. I'm I've gone through phases over the past decade of like going into, you know, I started with the Jack Canfields of the world. Like, love him. The basics, the principles, the fundamentals, very easy to read, you know, feelgood bite-size personal development. Then I got into the Joe Dispensza a bit more spiritual and you know and then I got into you know I went through before the Joe Despensza phase I went through a big Tony Robbins phase and I I've literally gone through all the phases but now we're having the same life by the way it's great. Well we are very connected I guess without even realizing it. Um well I'm excited to introduce you to our mutual next phase now. Um thank you so much. Let's go. Have you heard of uh the Russian quantum physicist Vadim Zeland? No. So please let's go. Let's go. So basically he wrote a book called reality trans surfing. It is literally like this like for everyone listening on audio I am holding my hands like very wide right now like the biggest book in the world. And it was translated from Russian to English. Wow. And he you cannot find him anywhere. He's not online. He's just like in Russia somewhere living in a completely different universe but like literally has the codes to u quantum physics these quantum physics theories that he has proven to be true you know um in his own life and and his work and um so quantum physics there are unlimited theories right we there's so many things that we don't know because we are very simple humans still at this point in evolution and we you know don't we don't even there's so many things in quantum physics that confuses the world, right? Like we people don't understand um so many of these theories like why certain things happen and this is where you see like particles are attracted by like particles and you know you see um when you observe a particle it behaves differently. There are certain things that are just very strange. Um and also you can't just like delete energy. So energy has to transfer somewhere. That's why a lot of people think that there is an afterlife after death because how can your energy, your soul like just disappear like it has to transition, right? So there are a lot of people, you know, that have created theories based on what they found because quantum physics is still pretty up in the air. Anyway, I'm obsessed with this guy Vadim Zelen's theory on how to manifest and create the life that you desire with quantum physics. It's basically his version of how the world works. You know, we all think the world works in one way. He thinks it works in another way based on this quantum physics theory. And I have seen so many similarities to what he teaches, to what Dr. Joe teaches, to what Jack Canfield teaches, to what, you know, Tony Robbins teaches to what all of these, you know, big names in personal development. It there's so many commonalities just like I was talking before about how, you know, Christians will call it prayer, atheists will call it placebo effect, you know, it's all the, you know, different the same thing in different words, right? So anyway, there is something in Vim Zelen's book. He calls them lifelines. So essentially he states that there are unlimited parallel realities slash lifelines that exist at any given moment. Okay? In any given moment, there are unlimited realities. So there is a lifeline where you and I are in person doing this podcast. There is a lifeline where I have blonde hair and you have brown hair. There is a lifeline where you're married to Brad Pitt, you know, like there is literally a lifeline. Any possibility in the entire world that you could ever imagine exists at any given moment and past and present and future all exist at the same time. Anyway, so going back to the lifeline theory, timeline, lifeline, some people call it quantum jumping. Anyway, he just calls them lifelines. And what I have interpreted from his work is that you can essentially select the lifeline that you want to live in any moment with a snap of a finger. And you can select it by connecting your energy with it by elevating your frequency to match the very specific frequency of that lifeline that you desire. And I have seen firsthand how like I've actually experienced jumping from lifeline to lifeline. I don't want to get too woo woo here cuz listen, I'm I'm a little woo. Like I'm a little spiritual, but I'm very grounded in like the pragmatic approach. Like I'm I like proof. I like the science. So a part of me does obviously like to explore other options, but I have firsthand experienced this and and I've done it three times with like the same activation on the app. The first time was when I was approving it after it was created by my audio engineers and I was listening to it while I was walking and I literally shifted lifelines and I felt everything looked different, colors looked different around me and ever since those specific moments in the past, let's say year, I've done it three or four times. It was always while listening to a walking activation specifically and I can tell you which one. So, one of the ones that I was just referring to when I was walking and approving it, it's called Embody Magnetic Manifestation Energy. That one on the app, I think it's an anytime or walking activation. And um so that was one of them. And then the other ones that I've had shifted lifelines with. Um I don't know if you've tried the targeted visualization category. Um there's one uh there's a whole manifest money like specific visualization category. If you go to the explore page, then targeted visualizations. go to the manifest money category and you can see here like there is literally manifest everything from $1,000 all the way to a hundred million and everything in between. So 1,000 5,000 10,000 50,000 blah blah blah you know going up to a hundred million. So I have been listening to these this is my new kind of recent hyperfixation on the app because I go through phases where I just listen to the same one a thousand times until I'm sick of it. But essentially the manifest specific amount of money ones I've shifted lifelines with so many times like I genuinely feel and everything around me looks so different and I've heard from other users too that they have felt the same when they know about Vidium's work. Anyway, so the shifting lifelines thing, it's crazy cuz he states that you know to to select that you need to move towards your desires and use you know it's like the law of assumption. expect it to happen. Be so rooted in this new self-image that you just expect it to happen. And a lot of his work is pretty complicated. Like it's kind of hard to understand. And the book is so big and it's translated from Russian. A lot of the work I've actually in my own way has I've explained in my book, Activate Your Future Self. So for everyone listening, go buy Vidim's book for sure. But if you want something that you can also read that's a bit more tangible that maybe says it in a way that's a bit more western that you could probably understand a bit more check out my book Activate Your Future Self. But anyway, it was just so fascinating because he's my new like his work is so complex and so interesting and it just really confirms everything that I've learned in every other kind of area over the years. This makes so much sense to me because I'm thinking about if you can't go into the scenarios where like truly what you're saying like jumping lifelines that's what they're called right lifeline or timelines like a lot of people call it then being able to imagine yourself doing it I believe is the same. So I, you know, for everybody who watches our Chris and I's life, we we kind of swear by these, we just have never titled it like jumping lifelines, but like getting in the rooms and if you can't get in the rooms, which I couldn't do in the beginning. I couldn't afford it. Meaning getting in the rooms like masterminds or getting to hang out with people who have the life that you want. I literally recently got to go spend a weekend with someone whose life literally blew my mind. Like I I came back so different from one weekend. meaning I feel like I jumped literally like 10 quote unquote lifelines. So if you can't do that yet, which by the way, if you do these things, you'll get to a place where you are physically in their presence where it can amplify it as well, then you need to be listening to it and you need to be picturing it and you need to feel it so much that that's how that's going to happen. The only reason it happened for me is because I let myself in the weekend feel it tangibly and picture myself also in that life as well. and really experience it. So you guys, the beginning phase of getting those experiences is imagining these experiences and trying to make them as real in your body as possible, which is what this entire app is about, is trying to keep you in that frequency more and more and more and more throughout the day. So my last question for you, what do you do when you feel stuck? Okay, so I didn't touch on this, but this is the whole third part of my book. It's called the maintaining category of my book. We have clarity becoming and maintaining is the third part. So the whole part of maintaining is having a quick bounceback rate. Okay. So I coined this term bounceback rate years ago. This is you know years and years ago. And um essentially I realized that to create your dream life, it's not about perfection. I've never had one perfect day where I woke up at 5:00 a.m. and didn't procrastinate and had my green juice and ate organic and didn't mindlessly scroll on social media and was perfect. Like the perfection doesn't exist. Okay, so I remember the beginning of my journey. I would be so tough on myself if I just slipped up a tiny bit that I would actually just ruin my progress for a week or two or months, you know, until I bounced back to feeling good again, to feeling like my best self again. And then I realized that there is no human being on earth that ever is perfect. You know, the beautiful, you know, successful people that we see on, you know, the front of magazine covers, like they didn't get where they are by being perfect. they got to where they are by having a quick bounce back rate, you know, and you know, whether it's the health and body aesthetics that you're looking for. If you have a cookie, what it's no big deal. But if you have the whole box because you've shamed yourself and you think that you're going to restart on Monday because humans, we have this penchant for clean slates and it really really ruins us, then you're going to be so much f further behind. And so I realized that it wasn't about perfection. And it was about a quick bounce back rate because if you focus on your bounce back rate, you're going to bounce back real fast. If you focus on perfection, you're going to feel like you are stuck and frozen until you find your next moment of inspiration or the next Monday or the first of the month. So, you need to focus on your bounce back rate on how quickly you can bounce back after falling off the bandwagon of feeling like your best self. And when I first started my journey, it would take me months to bounce back. But now it happens in seconds because I know perfection is not the goal. It's a quick bounce back rate. Oh my god. Amen. My husband and I um we call it a comeback rate and we talk to all of our entrepreneurs about it because it's like you that is the most important in sports in fitness. The comeback rate is about um you know they always say in in sports they say you never look back like it's what's the next play. So when you fail you never they don't even focus on the failure unless they're analyzing it for data to get better later. When you're in the game, which that's what we're in, you say, "Next, what's the next play? What's the next play?" Like, there isn't even a moment where you think about the past. We I analyze this with my husband all the time because he loves football and it'll be you'll be watching a rookie and they'll mess up and they'll get stuck because they're thinking about how they screwed up in the last play and you'll watch a really seasoned athlete and they just clap their hands and they rally the team around and they don't care that they just failed. they don't get stuck there. Like I love watching sports to see who's in their head and who's got that, you know, who's, like you said, the bounce back. Like, who's only focused on how fast are they going to come back from what just happened? You guys, vital. I'm so obsessed with this. Okay, so any last words? If you're listening right now and you want to change your life, focus on your self-image. Focus on becoming your future self in everyday moments. It doesn't need to be this complicated, hard thing to change an aspect or every aspect of your life. You can really simplify it down and do what actually works, which is changing your energy, changing your self-image by doing things like journaling, like listening to activations, like connecting with yourself and getting out of these numbing patterns of over scrolling on social media, getting out of distraction and focusing for just a moment on your future. You can create it. If I can, anyone can. and you live one life. So, you might as well create the most beautiful life possible because what the work you put in now, you're going to reap the benefits 10fold later. I'm a big believer in the investor's mentality towards life. Not just investing in the stock market, but investing in every aspect of your life, doing and committing now and just taking that next step, voting for your future self. And if you've, you know, been convinced over this episode to try activations, I urge you to. We offer a twoe free trial and a money back guarantee. So, even if you forget to cancel and you hate it, you'll get your money back. I'm not here just to take money and run. I I really just genuinely know that this product will change your life and you can take advantage of the twoe free trial. We wanted it to be two whole weeks because in two weeks you can see a massive change in your life. So, if it doesn't make you feel a different in 2 weeks, just cancel it. But I know that if you stay committed to it, you will actually feel a huge difference. And not just feel a difference, you're going to see a difference physically in your life, materially, in your life. And if you want to use uh Lor's link, you can just go to activations.com/happy. And on there, you can actually see Lor's top five activations. Um the team's going to put that together on the website, so you can see which ones are her favorite. you can get a twoe free trial and you can sign up with a massive discount on the yearly subscription. So, all I'll say is try it out and uh you might really change your life. Mimi, I'm so grateful. Um you guys, everything is down below. Uh so, we made it super super easy for real. You if you guys have listened to my podcast for the eight years it's been on, you know that this is exactly the stuff that I swear by. And now we have a tool with pretty much any scenario that you can possibly think of is on there that you're trying to imagine or work through. I mean whether it's, you know, public speaking, whether it's creating a certain dollar amount, like it is so specific, you guys. You're going to love it. Mimi, you're incredible. I'm so grateful to you and I love your passion. I love your energy. So, thank you so much for coming on the show. Thank you so much, Lori. I really appreciate you having me on. Yes. You guys go make sure you download it. At least give the twoe trial a shot and go give her a follow as well. So in next until next time everyone earn your happy. Bye-bye.