In this video, I'm going to do a very rapid review of the difference between accuracy versus precision. This will be a very quick video, but by the end of this video, I'll simplify this topic into one or two pneumonics, and you'll get every single question right if you ever see this show up on your exam. So, we've got two terms that we're dealing with. One is accuracy, and one is precision. And first pneummonic, first part of learning this the easy way is to change the way you think about these words. So instead of saying accuracy, I want you to say accuracy. So we're just changing that second letter to a V. And precision will be the same, but we're going to focus on the first two letters of each of these words. Accuracy and precision. AV for accuracy and PR for precision. And the reason that we do that is because sometimes on your exams on USMLE COMMLEX or whatever other exam you're taking instead of using the term accuracy the test writer might use the term validity and instead of using the term precision the test writer might use the term reliability. And I don't want you to get confused or thrown off when you see those interchangeable terms. You need to know that they mean the same thing. So the reason we think of accuracy is so that you know if you see the one that begins with A or the one that begins with V, we're dealing with the same term. And likewise, if you see precision, which begins with P, or reliability, which begins with R, we're dealing with the same term. So by knowing the first two letters refer to the same term, you can interchange these terms when you see them on your exam and not lose the free point. So that's the first pneummonic, accuracy and precision. Now let's talk about what these terms mean. So accuracy or accuracy refers to the truness or correctness of test measurements whereas precision or reliability refers to the consistency or the reproducibility of test measurements. And so if I were to rephrase that what this means is that an accurate test result is the absent of absence of bias and a precise test result is the absence of variance. Now, this is really important to know because the way that test writers will go after this on your exam is they'll give you a group of results and they'll ask you are the results accurate slashv valid and are they precise slash reliable? So, you need to know what these terms mean. My second pneummonic is a way to remember this, right? So, when it comes to accuracy, I think of actual accurate and when it comes to precision, I think of the precision patch. Now, think about it guys. Accuracy means it's the trressess or correctness of test measurements. So when I say the actual accurate as my pneummonic, what I'm telling myself here is that it's accurate if it's the actual result. So in other words, if a test set out to find the actual HDL of a patient's cholesterol, which was actually 90, and the test result returned a value of 90, then we could say that that test was accurate because it found the actual true number. And that's what accuracy is the truess or correctness of a test measurement and the absence of bias. So actual accurate. Now for precise my pneummonic is the precision patch because precision also known as reliability refers to the ability of tests to be reproducible and consistent. So there's no variance. And the way that this is oftentimes shown in textbooks and review sources is using these targets. And this will make a lot more sense in just a moment. So bear with me. If you look at these targets, there's for both accuracy and precision, there's one to the left and there's one to the right. The one to the left in just a second will show you what accurate and precision results look like. And then the one to the right will show you what nonaccurate and non-precise results look like. So you see here that an accurate result is finding the trressess or correctness of test measurements. So it's hitting the bullseye every single time. If it's not accurate though, it's not going to hit the bullseye. It's going to give you a result that's not actual. So remember, actual accurate. Now, for the precision patch, all of those results, if they're precise, will be clustered together in a patch. And that's why my pneummonic is the precision patch. So you see on that left bottom target, all of those results are clustered in a patch. And so even though it's not hitting the bullseye and we could say in this case it's not accurate, it is precise because it's reproducible. It's consistent and there's no variance. But look at that bottom right target. In that example, all of the results are scattered all over the place. And so in in that case, the answer or the test is not precise and worth taking one step further. It's also not accurate because it's not hitting the bullseye. So with these in mind, with a few pneumonics here, accurate, precise, the actual accurate, and the precision patch, you know what the terms are, what the terms mean, how they're interchangeable, and what they look like, and what they should team.