 » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » proteins. Those proteins are going to clump outside of cells. And in doing so, they're going to damage certain organs. So before we go any further, let's understand something. Amyloid is extracellular. It has a beta pleated sheet structure. I know that you probably are like, oh, amyloid, that means Congo red. You have that buzzword association in your brain. To be honest with you, I don't think that's going to help you very much on your exam. But yes, it's true that amyloid will be Congo red positive. And when that Congo red positive is exposed to polarized light, it will demonstrate what's called apple green biofringence. That second part, that is historically what med students memorize and then sort of punt the rest of this topic. But that's not how you're going to score your points on today's US Emily. So again, I'm beating a dead horse here because I want you to understand that amyloidosis means misfolded proteins outside of cells that are either extracellular, they're beta pleated, but they're damaging certain cells and by extension, certain organs. And that's what we're going to talk about. So that amyloid, it can accumulate anywhere. It could be the heart, the liver, the kidney, the brain, the spleen, the tongue, the nerves, the vasculature. And you're going to see that depending on where the amyloid is depositing, that's going to lead to certain symptoms. And in different types of amyloidosis, there's a greater propensity for it to deposit in certain areas. So let's talk about how we classify amyloidosis. So when you see it on your exam, you're going to see the letter A and then another letter or another few letters. And that second letter, which I'm showing here in blue and representing with X, that can be a couple of different things, but that first letter A is never going to change. That first letter A means amyloid. The second letter tells you where the amyloid is coming from. So it can be AL, L for light chain. It can be AA, A for serum amyloid A, or it can be ATTR, TTR for transport protein transthyretin. So on your exam, you're going to be given different types of amyloidosis. And if we're talking about systemic, meaning throughout the body, amyloidosis, it's either going to be AL, AA, or ATTR. There are some other types, and we'll talk about them at the end of today's video. So let's start with AL, sometimes called primary amyloidosis. This is due to monoclonal plasma cell proliferation, which produces excessive amounts of misfolded light chains. And those light chains get deposited in different organs. So basically, think about AL, or primary amyloidosis, as plasma cells gone wild. As you have the proliferation of plasma cells, so too do you have a proliferation of immunoglobulin light chains. And you've got to have somewhere for the proliferated protein to end up. And unfortunately, in the case of primary amyloidosis, it ends up in places like the heart, the kidneys, and the nerve. So what you want to think about are some disease associations where you might see AL, primary amyloidosis. So think about things like the classic example is multiple myeloma, but also Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, MGUS, or smoldering myeloma, restrictive cardiomyopathy. Again, I told you that it ends up in the heart, peripheral neuropathy, because it can end up in the nerves, nephrotic syndrome, because it can end up in the kidney, and hepatosplenomegaly. So on your exam, what this typically will look like is generally an older patient presenting with either restrictive cardiomyopathy or nephrotic syndrome, they may give you a monoclonal spike. And if you're hearing that, you got to think, oh, it's AL amyloidosis. Now, I want to point something out here, because you'll note that throughout the various types of amyloidosis, you can have the amyloid depositing in the heart and the kidney. And that sometimes confuses medical students, because you're like, all right, I'm seeing a nephrotic syndrome, but how do I know which type of amyloidosis I'm dealing with? In the case of AL amyloidosis, the course tends to be more rapidly progressive compared to the other types. And that should make sense, because this is due again to monoclonal plasma cell proliferation. And that is a much faster process. If you think about cells kind of like rapidly producing and rapidly proliferating, that grows, and that happens at a much faster rate. And that's why the course of primary amyloidosis tends to be much more rapidly progressive. And you can kind of use that as a hint on your exam, if you have a nephrotic syndrome, and you're not sure if it's AL or AA. And this also tends to be the most common form of amyloidosis period. So I say that to say that if you're taking step two or level two, and you have to guess based on more of an epidemiology type of approach, you might just want to guess AL if you have symptoms of amyloidosis, just because it's more common period. Now to be clear, these disease associations, they're important. But if I was the test writer, here's what I'm going after. Two very unique presentations, unique to AL amyloidosis. So on the left, you have what is sometimes referred to as raccoon eyes. This is periorbital cutaneous ecchymosis. And basically, the misfolded protein is just going to accumulate in the blood vessels around the eyes. So somebody has a sudden onset of looking like a raccoon. Yeah, it's AL amyloidosis. Likewise, it can be deposited into the tongue. So it can also present with macroglossia, right? Big tongue. So if you see raccoon eyes or big tongue, stop, do not pass go. The answer is AL amyloidosis. Of course, if we're talking about an amyloid related question. So my mnemonic here, AL amyloidosis, I know people always are like the L means light chain. I don't think that helps you on exams unless the test writer's explicitly asking you, what is the pathophysiological cause? Well, yeah, then you would need to know that. But for me, I've always thought about monoclonal, AL for AL amyloidosis, and animal. And animal to me means raccoon with a big tongue. For some reason, I just think raccoons have big tongues. Somebody, if you know, if you're like a vet or know a vet, tell me if raccoons actually have big tongues, because I've been using this mnemonic for years. But AL amyloidosis, AL for monoclonal. And in my brain, I'm like, okay, monoclonal, that means IG light chain. That means it's rapidly progressive because of that cellular proliferation. And animal for raccoon eyes and tongue. Yes, again, you got to know those other disease associations, but I feel like this gives you a bit of an edge. So bottom line here, AL primary amyloidosis, plasma cells gone wild, immunoglobulin light chain deposition, highly associated with multiple myeloma, heart, kidneys, nerves, think older patient presenting with either restrictive cardiomyopathy, nephrotic syndrome, or a monoclonal spike. And if the test writer is like me, they're going to give you the animal symptoms, right? The raccoon eyes and the big tongue. So that is your primary AL amyloidosis. Now let's switch gears and talk about AA, sometimes called secondary, sometimes called reactive amyloidosis. So this is due to excessive amounts of serum amyloid A, which is an acute phase reactant that results from chronic inflammation. And as there's more inflammation over time, and more serum amyloid A, because again, when you have inflammation, you're going to have these acute phase reactants being formed, that gets deposited into various tissues. Now you can see my disease associations here. This typically is associated with rheumatoid arthritis, with types of inflammatory bowel disease. It presents with nephrotic syndrome, which is why I bolded that. It's associated with lupus, vasculitis, chronic infections, something called familial Mediterranean fever, certain types of malignancies, which most often tend to be lymphomas or renal cell carcinoma, and can present with primary adrenal insufficiency. So this is a pretty big list. And if that feels overwhelming to you, I want you to relax and just think about this as AA is associated with inflammation. So chronic inflammation over time, acute phase reactants are forming, they've got to go somewhere. Where do they go? Well, they most often end up in the kidneys, which is why AA reactive secondary amyloidosis tends to present with a nephrotic syndrome. So on your exam, if you've got a patient with a long history of inflammatory diseases, so in the vignette, they're going to say patient has a past medical history of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, vasculitis, lupus, they're going to throw a bunch of inflammatory things at you. And they're going to tell you it's been going on for a long time. And now your patient is suddenly presenting with proteinuria. That is AA amyloidosis, if they're if they're going after amyloidosis. I want to point out something here. This is the most common form of amyloidosis in children, which I think should make a little bit of sense to you because it's due to inflammation. So if you have an unfortunate young patient who has chronic inflammation, they're more likely to experience secondary reactive amyloidosis, because they're not at that age yet where there's that primary monoclonal cell proliferation that we just talked about with AL amyloidosis. So big takeaway here, my mnemonic AA is associated with inflammation, you can see it in adolescence, right in kids, and it's going to present with a nephrotic syndrome. And that last one is pretty stupid. But the A helps me remember, because nephrotic syndrome is associated with various types of amyloidosis, that typically the presentation of an immune mediated or a reactive or a secondary amyloidosis, that's going to be nephrotic syndrome. And that's really important to understand when you're thinking about how the test writer will write the question on USMLE. All right, let's talk about ATTR, sometimes called transthyretin amyloidosis. This is due to deposited, misfolded transthyretin protein. The interesting thing about this type of amyloidosis is that this can either be hereditary or age-related. In the case of it being hereditary, patients can have a TTR gene mutation, which essentially messes up the transthyretin protein, leads to the deposition. The age-related type, sometimes called the wild type, that's just a byproduct of aging. So it's unfortunate, but it happens. Now typically, this will be associated with some type of polyneuropathy. That can be peripheral, that can be autonomic. And we tend to see a polyneuropathy more in that hereditary type of ATTR amyloidosis. But to be clear, the presentation can either be neuropathy or cardiomyopathy. It doesn't matter if the cause is hereditary or age-related. If somebody is presenting with some type of symptom of cardiomyopathy, with some type of polyneuropathy, you want to think ATTR amyloidosis. So on the exam, usually this will be an elderly patient, tends to be an elderly man. They might present with signs and symptoms of some mild heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. They may give you a history of something like the carpal tunnel syndrome. I've seen that before, but think polyneuropathy, cardiomyopathy in an elderly individual. Elderly is trying to insinuate that this might be age-related and that should point you toward ATTR amyloidosis. To be clear, this is not as high yield as AL or AA. So if you're like at the point in the video where you're like, dude, I can't stuff all this into my brain. This is probably the one to punt. All right, let's talk about hemodialysis-associated amyloidosis. So this is due to beta-2 microglobulin depositing into the joints, tendons, and the bones. So this is associated with hemodialysis because beta-2 microglobulin is not really efficiently removed during dialysis. That is a component of MHC-1 for all of you immunology lovers out there. And because it's not removed by dialysis, what happens? It gets deposited. And where it gets deposited explains the symptoms. So it gets deposited into joints, tendons, and bones. So it presents with things like carpal tunnel syndrome, scapulohumeral periarthritis, and cysts, bony cysts to be exact. So in hemodialysis, I always think hemodialysis-associated is HA, and HA presents in the hand. And in my brain, I'm like, oh, the hand, that's joints, that's carpal tunnel. Makes sense. Hopefully that helps you. Last thing that we'll talk about is organ-specific amyloidosis. So this is a localized deposition of amyloid in a singular organ. And I want to be very clear here. If you look at my disease associations, you can see how this is associated with different disease processes. And the reason that this is important for exams is because these are localized. Think about what we talked about with AL and AA amyloidosis. The disease association list was like what? Five to ten deep, right? It can come in the kidneys. It can come in the heart. It can come in the joints. It can come in the vessels. This is one organ. So let's go through these associations. The biggest one is Alzheimer's dementia, Alzheimer's disease. And this is due to beta amyloid protein getting cleaved from amyloid precursor protein. So obviously this is in the brain only in Alzheimer's. We also have an association with type 2 diabetes. So patients on your exam with a history of type 2 diabetes can get amyloidosis in the pancreas. The pancreas only, right? We're not talking about systemic amyloidosis. We're talking about localized. In this case, it's due to islet amyloid polypeptide or IAPP, which is released in the pancreatic islet cells with insulin. So if you have a patient with type 2 diabetes, you can get amyloidosis in the pancreas. Process of normal aging. So there doesn't have to be like a disease process necessarily. As a byproduct of normal aging, you get something called atrial natriuretic peptide getting released. And that actually increases the risk of atrial fibrillation. So pretty interesting that it's a byproduct of normal aging, but as that atrial natriuretic peptide gets released and gets deposited, it actually increases the risk for a disease in AFib. So there is some cardiac amyloidosis possible. Medullary thyroid carcinoma, this is a big one. So the amyloid stroma is derived from calcitonin. So this is calcitonin associated. Obviously this is only in the thyroid. So if you have a patient with medullary thyroid carcinoma, you can get some amyloidosis. And then the last one that I just want you to be aware of is cerebral amyloid angiopathy. This is due to AB amyloid accumulation in the cerebral blood vessels. And the reason that we care about this one is that that can actually lead to cerebral hemorrhage. So pretty important to understand. So on your exam, kind of just to keep this stupid and keep this simple, some of the clues that you could be given and what you want to think about. So if they're giving you brain plaques, you want to think about Alzheimer's. If they're giving you something pancreatic related, think about amylin, think about type two diabetes. If they give you a thyroid tumor plus amyloid, think about a medullary thyroid carcinoma. And that's pretty much it. The last thing I'll say is again, I know med students love the Congo red stain and the apple green biofringent. So let's just close on this. So yes, on exams, the amyloid will stain positive for Congo red. And then when you put that Congo red under polarized light, it reveals what you see here in apple green biofringents. And that is suggestive or indicative of these amyloid fibrils being abnormally deposited into tissue. So like, you know, 20 years ago, this was a really big buzzword, big picture on US Emily and Comlex, but over the years, it has been so overdone and over buzzworded, if that makes sense that I really don't think this is going to show up. But hey, you should know it. So that's amyloidosis. I my goal was to keep that simple and really reduce it down to something more palatable. I hope that that made sense to you. But at the end of the day, just remember, AL is monoclonal. AA is inflammation. TTR, kind of that older male type of picture with, you know, heart issue, cardiomyopathy, polyneuropathy, hemodialysis associated in the hand. So you're getting your carpal tunnel, your joint associated, and then the organ specifics that we just talked about. So not too difficult when you break it down, but keep up the good work.