The first two drugs that we're going to talk about are oeltamir and zenamavir. In order to best understand how these two drugs work, I think I need to explain a little bit of physiology. So I want you to imagine that you've got this host cell and the host cell is what could be infected by a virus. And that host cell on the surface of that cell has what's known as the scialic acid receptors. So imagine if you will that inside of that host cell you've got a budding virus. The budding virus will be shown here in red. And as that virus grows and gets ready to leave the host cell and then undergo some viral shedding, it's actually going to move through the host cell and then locate on the surface. And at this point, that budding virus, which is now growing in size and pretty much ready to just jump off the cell and spread elsewhere, is connected to the host cell through those P scialic acid receptors. Now, on the surface of the virus, there's a substance known as neurominadase. Neuromminadase's job for the virus under normal viral circumstances is to basically move its position and go find the connection between the virus itself and the P scialic acid receptors. So what it looks like and I've depicted it on this slide in green is that the neurommenadase goes over finds the connection between the P scialic acid receptor and the virus and under normal circumstances it cleaves the P scialic acid receptors and when it does this it allows that virus to detach from the host cell and then undergo viral release where the virus can then go on to infect more cells. So if we go back to the original starting point of this slide, the way that oeltamir and zenamavir work is that they are noraminadase inhibitors. So if you imagine and I've depicted those two drugs shown as the little purple square. If you imagine osel tamavir and xenamavir coming in and just sitting on top of and blocking noraminadase then noraminadase can never reposition itself and cleave the connection between the scialic acid receptor and the growing virus. So the mechanism of oelamavir and zenmavir is to inhibit neurominadase. Now, something that's really important for you to know for test day, especially if we're talking about step two, level two, and beyond, is that these drugs are really only effective within 48 hours of symptom onset. So, if you give them after that 48 hour mark, then it really doesn't do anything, and it doesn't shorten the course of the virus. So, only within those for first 48 hours will this actually work. Now, how are you supposed to remember this? Well, if you look at the name of the mechanism and the name of the drugs, it kind of reveals to you what these drugs do. So, you've got nor amadase inhibitors and both of these drugs have a in the name. So, o oel oelt amir and zan emir and that ami or ami matches up with the amii in nor amnidase. So neuromminidase inhibitors are oeltamir and zenamavir very very high yield just remember the mechanism remember that you have to give it within 48 hours of symptom onset otherwise it will not shorten the course of the influenza virus and that's what this is used for influenza now that you've understood the first two drugs let's transition into our next group of drugs so the next three that we're going to talk about are asycllov asycllovere and famcyc And at the conclusion of this discussion, I'll I'll mention one other drug that basically works the same way, but we'll reserve that for the end of this conversation. So again, in order to best understand how these drugs work, I need to show you a little bit of physiology and viology. So imagine you've got this host cell and the host cell can be infected with viruses and these drugs are going to treat things like HSV, VZV, etc. So if you want to treat those viruses, you're going to introduce these drugs. So imagine introducing one of these drugs. This could have been any of the three but I've just written it as a cycllovere. So a cycllovere or valycllovere or famcycllovere will be represented by these purple squares. So you introduce the drug and the drug makes its way to the host cell and it gets inside of that host cell. Now normally you've got an enzyme known as viral thyidadine kinise. And what viral thyidine kynise does is because of the viral infection it usually acts as a phosphorolating agent because as you'll recall anything with kynise adds phosphate groups. So under normal circumstances this virus will take substances and using this viral thyidadane kinace it'll add a phosphate to it. But when you introduce one of these three drugs, asyclloe, val asycllovere or famcyclloe, the viral fitine kynise will inadvertently add phosphate groups to the drugs instead of other building blocks that it could be using to help the virus replicate. And over time what'll happen is one phosphate group will get added to any of these three drugs and then it'll go downstream and happen two more times and you'll get a cyclloe triphosphate or valacy triphosphate or fam cyclloh triphosphate. Again it doesn't matter which of these three we're talking about. The point is is that viral thyidine kynise will add three phosphate groups to any of these three drugs. And once you have the end product or the triphosphate form of any of these three drugs, there's no way that viral DNA polymerase can incorporate that into the growing viral chain. So what happens under normal circumstances in viology is that you've got this enzyme known as viral DNA polymerase which comes along and adds more building blocks to the growing chain. But when you introduce a cyclloe triphosphate or valacy triphosphate or fam cyclloe triphosphate viral DNA polymerase simply cannot use it because that long phosphate tail terminates the growing chain. So I've shown viral DNA polymerase here in red and because you've got a substance with three phosphate groups and a very long tail you cannot incorporate it into the growing chain. So if I was going to summarize for you what the mechanism of asyclloe valyclloe and fam cyclloe are, I would say that these are guanine analoges that phosphorolate uh to terminate the growing chain by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase. So that's how these drugs work. And the thing that you should keep in mind for test day, two other really high yield points is that one, there's a way that you can get resistance to these drugs, and two, there's a very high yield adverse drug reaction that you should be familiar with. So, let's talk about that stuff. Now, first and foremost, the way that there can be some viral resistance is if the virus mutates thydadine kinace. So if you mute if you mutate thymitadine kynise then there's a chance that it won't add the phosphate groups to ascyclloe val asyclloe or famcyclloe and therefore you never get that three triphosphate form it never terminates the viral chain and therefore these drugs simply don't work. So if a virus mutates thydine kinace then you've got a chance that these drugs will be unsuccessful in your treatment. The very high yield adverse drug reaction that you should be familiar with is obstructive crystalline nephropathy. Okay, obstructive crystalline nephropathy. And we don't really have a great understanding of why this occurs. But if you think about this, the more triphosphate chains that you're adding to these, the longer you of a substance that you have, and I always thought about this as you've got this really longtailed substance that gets trapped inside of a nephron, and because of that, you get this obstructive crystalline nephropathy. If you think about the physiology of the nephron and how tightly woven it is and how precise all of the normal physiology of the nephron needs to be, well, it sort of makes sense that anytime you introduce a longtailed triphosphate chain molecule, you're going to have problems carrying out normal um physiologic function in the kidney. So, the way that you can remember this is that your three drugs that have cycllo in the name cause a cyclone and viral DNA polymerase. So if you imagine a cyclone, a growing cyclone, as that cyclone spins, you've got the growing tail of the cyclone. And I put a little picture on this slide. If you imagine that as the tail spreads out in a circular fashion from the eye of the storm, that's your growing phosphate chain. So these drugs a cyclloe, fam cycl, and valet cyclloe cause a cyclone in the viral DNA polymerase. So the viral DNA pulymerase can't use it. The cyclone has the growing chain and it just messes up all of the viruses that these drugs treat. So that's a very long-winded discussion about the three cycllo drugs. Again, remember the mechanism. So remember this slide and understand the mutation of thyodine kinace can render these drugs useless. Remember the obstructive crystalline nephropathy because you've got that long triphosphate chain which will just plant itself in the nephron. And as your pneumonic, just remember that this causes a cyclone in viral DNA polymerase. Now, I mentioned at the start of this discussion, there was one more drug that worked pretty similarly, and I'm just going to throw that in real quickly here. So, you've got gans cycllovere. Basically, gansycllover is the same thing. It works the same way. It has all the same functionality, but it's just a five mono phosphate that's formed by the CMV viral kynise instead of, as you see on this slide, the viral thyodine kynise. So, slightly different enzyme, slightly different base uh molecule structure to it, but works pretty similarly. All right, so now you understand all of the cycllo drugs. Let's transition and talk about another two drugs that work very similarly. So with that said, we're going to now talk about fossaret and sedophavir. So before I get into the discussion here, these are a little bit simpler to understand. They don't require as much of some background viology. So let's just get right into the nitty-gritty. The mechanism here of both of these drugs is that they inhibit viral DNA polymerase. And the major adverse drug reaction and and what's incredibly high yield to understand for USMLE and COMLX is that both of these drugs can cause a really significant nephrotoxicity. The major differentiating factor between these two drugs and what I imagine that most of the test writers will go after is which one of these drugs is a pyroofosphate analog and which one of these drugs has a special treatment that you can give with it to avoid the nephrotoxicity. So again, the mechanisms are the same and what you might be asked to do is differentiate between two of them based on what I'm about to tell you. So some really high yield information coming your way right now. The first is that phoset is a pyrophosphate analog. And that's pretty easy to memorize because foss is in the name. So fossarnette is a pyro fate analog. On test day, they could ask you, they could say something like, you know, an antiviral is given that inhibits viral DNA polymerase. They could show you some labs that show an elevated creatinine and BUN and they're pointing you in the direction of one of these two drugs. And if the question then asks which of the following is a pyrophosphate analog that meets the mechanism listed, the answer would be phosket. So just understand that phosnet is a pyrophosphate analog. The other thing that's pretty unique about sedophavir that differentiates it from phoskarnet is that even though both of these drugs cause nephrotoxicity, you can give something with sedophavir called probenacid and also IV fluids to help mitigate that risk of nephrotoxicity. So in other words, if you give probenacid and IV fluids with sedopavir, then the nephrotoxicity risk is a lot lower. So how do you remember this? Because that's incredibly high yield for test day. The way that I want you to remember this using my pneummonic is that sedophave has do and favor in the name. So do me a favor and give sid favor with probenisonid and IV saline to prevent nephrotoxicity. So isn't that really cool guys? I mean do and favor are in the name. So do me a favor. Give probenacid and IV saline with sedophavir to prevent that nephrotoxicity. really really high yield because again phoset and sedophavir are so similar that the only differentiating factors between them is that phosnet is the pyroofhosphate analog and sedophavir can be given with provenid and ivalene to prevent that nephrotoxicity. So if a test writer is really going to go after one of these it's probably going to be one of these two high yield points. So make sure that you understand it and you'll do fine on test day. Let's talk now about interferon alpha. So imagine that you've got this host cell and under normal circumstances the host cell is just chilling doing its thing. But when any host cell becomes infected with a virus, it actually releases interferon. So the thought by giving somebody interferon alpha is that you're just giving them more of something that the native cell would release anyway if it was infected. And interferon has a lot of different antiviral and actually anti-tumor properties to it. So if you imagine that this host cell becomes infected, which I'll depict here as this fuzzy red line now that now the cell's infected, it's going to release interferons. So when you give a patient interferon alpha, you're just giving them basically an acute phase reactant that's already going to be released which has antiviral properties. There's not much more to say about interfuron alpha. So I'll leave it at that and let you just read a little bit more detail about it if you happen to be interested. But just understand that interferon alpha is something that's natively released anyway. and that's where its mechanism comes from. Now, the last part of this video today will be a discussion about the different hepatitis C drugs. And unfortunately, the hepatitis C drugs are really difficult to memorize because they have funky letters in them. They inhibit different parts of the um hpatic pathway that the virus takes when it infects and damages a hpatocy. So the best way to approach this is actually to draw out the hpatocy and go through how hepatitis C infects the hpatocy and what parts of that pathway these drugs can basically um interfere with. So here's my gigantic hpatocy right. It's this square hpatocy along comes hepatitis C which you see here is that mucouscoled nasty virus and there's different phases for how hepatitis C infects the hpatocy. So the first phase is viral entry that that hepatitis C will just move inside of the hpatocy. The second phase is fusion and uncoding and then your third phase is translation and replication. The final phase is viron assembly where you get that virus pretty much put together in its final form and then it gets released where it can go and infect other hpatosytes. So this is the viral cycle for hepatitis C inside of a hepatosy. And there are four different drugs that can be used to treat hepatitis C. And I'm going to talk about three of them on this slide. The fourth being ribbon, which we're not going to touch on today, but if you're interested in that, go take a look in first aid or whatever question bank you like. It just happens to be one of the lower yield of these four. So where these drugs really do most of their damage and interfere with this pathway is at step three translation and replication. The first two drugs that I want to talk about are sepravir and leiposphere. So sepravir is a protease inhibitor and what it's inhibiting is ns3a4b. Now, as you'll see in this discussion, we use these abbreviations like NS3A/4B or NS5A, etc., etc. And they're just um basically shorthand ways to write what these drugs are interfering with. But if you have to memorize something, you can just memorize that seme inhibitor specifically at the NS-3A 4B location. Uh the other drug that inhibits replication is leiposphere and that one is the NS-5A inhibitor. Now both of these drugs are going to mess up the replication of hepatitis C in the hpatocy but they do it upstream of the third drug that we're going to talk about which is savvosuvir savvospouvir and sosvib is an ns5b inhibitor which means that it interferes with the RNA dependent RNA polymerase. Now, when you're studying, do I think that you need to memorize NS-3A4B and NS-5A and NS-5B? No, I really don't think that you do. If you want to cram it into what limited brain space you have available, then by all means do so. But if you're going to memorize one thing on this slide, I think you should memorize the name of the drug and what it's actually inhibiting. So, for example, in the case of sepravir, I would memorize that it interferes with protease. And for seos pu, I would memorize that it inhibits RNA dependent RNA polymerase. And leiposphere doesn't really have a named enzyme that it's interfering with. So maybe for that one you could memorize NS-5A. But the point is I'm just showing you what of information we know of at this point and therefore you can memorize what you choose to memorize. But these are the three major drugs that that are used in hepatitis C again along with reeban which I'm not going to talk about today because these are really gaining the mainstream hepatitis C treatment. So we've got three drugs that treat hepatitis C and what you should know is that basically right now the gold standard is to combine savvos puvere and leiposphere and the combination of these two drugs is actually what you may know as harvon. So harvon is pretty much for all intents and purposes is a cure for hepatitis C. And again as you can see by looking at the boxes here and the little case of pills is that this is a combination of leyposphere and savvos puvier. So again these two drugs in combination is the gold standard for hepatitis C treatment. And this is the pathway showing you where they're working. So by combining these two drugs you inhibit the NS-5A part of replication as well as the NS-5B which is specifically RNA dependent RNA polymerase. So it's the combination of those two drugs that is really what's being used quite often today unfortunately for patients. This combination is is super expensive. So Harvon is not terribly easy to get patients on. But I would be familiar with this combination because of the success that physicians have had treating hepatitis C with this combination. So guys and girls, that's it for today's video. I've gone through a lot of different drugs that that are antivirals and specifically we've talked about antivirals that don't treat HIV. So in this video we've talked about drugs that treat influenza, HSV, VCV, CMV, hepatitis C, etc. I think that when you're studying antivirals, it makes sense to break them into two categories. The non-HIV and the HIV antivirals. So, this video is the non-HIV antivirals. And at some point, I will release an antiviral video that specifically focuses on HIV. But if you're trying to conceptualize this in your brain, it makes sense to study the drugs in this video in one sitting and then once you're comfortable with these drugs, advance to the anti-HIV antivirals. So, that's it. I really hope that this was useful to you. I know that this discussion happened somewhat quickly, but I do think that I broke this down in a manageable and conceptualized way. If you have any questions, feel free to comment in the comment section of this video. And once again, please remember to click the link on my Patreon page in the description of any of my videos and please support the channel. Good luck.