You've got four classes. Class one anti-arithmics, class 2, class three, and class 4. And the way that people typically learn them is they go through table format. And they just sort of brutally memorize everything that you need to know. And that might work for some people, but that's really not a good way to learn anything in general. Unfortunately, memorizing by charts is one of the poorest ways to retain information. And we have research to suggest that that's true. So, I think that the way that I want to approach this is to use some of my really silly and stupid dirty USMLE pneumonics to help you remember key information. And what we're going to pay special attention to throughout this lecture is how these medications are altering the cardiac action potential and what are their high yield adverse drug reactions. It's not important to know every single bit of information about these drugs. You don't need to know which one prolongs the ERP, which one prolongs the PR interval. No, no, no. What you should take away from this lecture if you're struggling to learn these medications is one, how do they change the cardiac action potential? And can you physically draw on a piece of paper how that action potential is changing based on your understanding of where different ions flow in the cardiac action potential. The next thing that you need to know about these medications is their main adverse drug reaction. And I say main adverse drug reaction because some of them have very unique side effects that are going to come up on your USMLE or complex. The third thing and this might be obvious but the third thing that you need to know is how to classify these medications. So obviously class one are sodium channel blockers but have you ever paused for a second and thought about what that means? I mean the mechanism and the class is telling you which part of the cardiac action potential these medications will work on. So, that's sort of an overview and a framework that we're going to use to work throughout this video. Again, I'm going to point out everything that you need to know as we go through it, but I want you to pay special attention to the cardiac action potential, the classification of the drugs, and the main adverse drug reactions. So, with that said, let's start by talking about class one anti-arithmics. So, these are the sodium channel blockers. And normally when people learn these, they go in order of class 1 A, class 1B, and class 1 C, which are the three subtypes of sodium channel blockers. But I'm actually going to rearrange this and we're going to do them out of order. We're going to do 1 C, then 1 A, and then 1 B. And it'll be very clear why I've chosen to do it this way. just to start the way that I want the the reason that I want to do 1 C 1A and 1B is because it ties in beautifully to my pneumonic and will also help us remember how these medications are altering the cardiac action potential. So CAB or CAB makes me think of a salty cab driver and the salty cab driver reminds me that we're talking about sodium, right? Salty for sodium and cab for 1 C, 1 A and 1 B, CAB. So, the salty cab driver reminds me that we're talking about sodium channel blocking agents, specifically the subtype of class 1 C, class 1 A, and class 1B. The other reason that it's really convenient to learn them in this order is because if you learn them in the order of CAB, then understanding how these will how these drugs will alter the cardiac action potential makes beautiful perfect sense. So what you see on the slide are the normal cardiac action potentials drawn in with black lines. Now let me pause for a second and say that the purpose of this video is not to review the normal physiology of the cardiac action potential. And I'm going to assume that you have a basic understanding of that physiology. So, if you don't really know how the cardiac action potential works, then what I would encourage you to do right now is pause the video and go spend a little bit of time getting comfortable with that because you're going to have to understand how the phases of that cardiac action potential work in order to understand how those phases will change when we introduce drugs that block certain ions. So, what you see here are the standard cardiac action potentials. Now just as a very very brief superficial refresher you have phase 4 depolarizing then you have a quick repolarization with phase 1 then you have phase 2 and then you end with repolarization of phase three and this will repeat etc etc so that is what we're looking at right now these are normal cardiac action potentials and what I'm going to do is use three different colors to show you how sub subtype 1 C 1 A and 1B anti-alythmics will change the action potential So the sodium channel blocker 1 C group will decrease the slope of phase 0 the most. The 1 A group will decrease the slope of phase 0 in in between C and B. And then B will have the least amount of of decrease in slope of phase 0. So as you can see all of the sodium channel blockers are going to decrease the slope of phase zero. Okay, they're going to decrease the slope of phase zero. The question is how much is it going to happen? 1 C will do it the most. 1 A will then do it the second most and 1B will do it the least. So going in order of CAB for our salty cab driver reminds you that you start with the most and then you just go down in descending order. And I think that it's easier to learn it this way than to do ABC because if you do ABC then it's it's out of order. If you do it C A B then it goes in descending order. So 1 C will decrease that phase 0 slope the most. 1 A will decrease that phase 0 slope the second most. and 1B will decrease that slope the least. So this is the first really really high yield bit of information that you need to know when it comes to the sodium channel blockers. The next thing that you need to know are the actual different agents in these different classes and I've put them on this slide here. Flecinide and propapanone are the sodium channel 1C agents. Quinadine, doopyramide and proanomide are the sodium channel 1A agents. Maxillotine and lidocaine are your sodium channel blocking 1B agents. Now, it's really not that important to know which agents go into which group, although that can certainly help you on exams. But what is super important to know very very high yield are the main adverse drug reactions or ADRs that will occur with each of these drugs. And I've put them in here in black text. And I'm going to give you some really cool pneumonics to remember this. But let's explain them first. So the 1C agents flecide and propapanone are contraindicated in eskeemic tissue. So you can't use them postMI. The 1A agent quinedine will cause cinchism which is headache and tenitis. Um proanomide will cause drug induced lupus and all of those 1A agents can cause torsad point. So that I've put drug induced lupus on the same line as daopyamide but it it corresponds with procanomide. And then all three of those 1A agents can cause TDP, also known as torsads. The 1B agents, mixillitine and lidocaine, these are the best postMI. They're great for eskeemic tissue. So post mioardial infarction, you could use the 1B agents. So how do you remember all this stuff? Well, I've got some really cool dirty USML pneumonics. The 1C agents, C for can't use postMI or C for contraindicated 1A. Um, so quinedine I think of quinchinism. So the actual term is cinchinism but quinadine is quenchinism because cinchinism kind of like the c sound kind of sounds like the q quen cinch quench cinch quenchinism whatever it's headache and tenitis just memorize it. Um daopyamide can cause deo points or torsads torsads deo uh d in daopyamide d in deo and then proanomide causes prescription induced also known as druginduced lupus. So prescription induced SLE the P in prescription for the P in proanomide and then your 1B agents really the only thing that you need to know is that they're the best postMI. So B for best postMI. So this is the high yield stuff to know for your uh sodium channel blocking anti-arithmics. Again to quickly summarize you we learn them in order of CAB because of our salty cab driver. CAB for CAB and salty tells us we're talking about sodium channel blocking agents. If you learn them in order of CAB, then as you go down from C to A to B, they decrease the slope of phase zero in descending order. And I've shown that here with red, blue and green changes to the cardiac action potential. The 1C agents are fleenide and propapanone and C cannot use them postMI, C for cannot use or C for contraindicated. Quinadine for quenchinism, also known as cinchinism, which is headache and tenidis. That's a very high yield adverse drug reaction for quinadine. Daisopyramide as well as quinadine and procanomide can cause torsad depo. So the D in depoint and the D in da isopyamide. Proanomide is is known to cause drug induced lupus. So we we memorize that by saying prescription induced lupus because P in prescription and P in procanomide. And then your 1B agents B for best postMI. So here's a chart and I think that we should fill this in as we go through this lecture just to be really complete. So we've filled in all of our sodium channel blocking agents. Remember again that the mechanism here is that they're blocking phase zero which is the inward sodium ionic current. Adverse drug reactions I filled in your 1C agents are contraindicated postMMI. Your 1B agents are best postMI. Remember cinchism for quinodine drug induced lupus for proanomide and torsads for all three. So we've talked about our class one agents. We've used some stupid pneumonics, but I hope that you paid special attention to how it changes the cardiac action potential, what the mechanism is, and what the main adverse drug reactions are. So, now let's talk about class 2. Class 2 are the beta blockers. And beta blockers I'm sure you're a little bit familiar with. These are things that end in ol, right? Propanol, esmal, attennol. The mechanism of the class 2 beta blockers is that these decrease slope of phase 4 depolarization by suppressing av nodal or sa nodal activity. So what you see in black is the normal cardiac action potential. And if you introduce a beta blocker, it will shift and change to what you see in red. And the reason that this happens is because you're decreasing the slope of that phase 4 depolarization by decreasing your AVSA nodal activity. So by inhibiting the sympathetic drive into the system, you decrease the slope of phase 4 deolarization because you're altering the ionic flow of your normal currents. So how do you remember all this? Well, this one's pretty simple to be honest with you. The way that you should remember this is with four letters. So beta has four letters in it. SA AV is four total letters. So beta blockers suppress the AVSA node. Beta has four letters. Sa AV is a total of four letters. All of these drugs end in oolal. That's four letters. And they're often used in aphib a flutter. And I remember that because aphib has four letters. Also, four letters tells us, of course, that you're decreasing the slope of phase 4 depolarization. So everything with beta blockers has to do with four. The only thing that has nothing to do with that is the fact that these are categorized as class 2 anti-arithmics. So if you can memorize that beta blockers are class 2 anti-arithmics and then cue yourself to remember that everything has to do with four because beta has four letters savv is four letters o is four letters it decreases the slope of phase 4 depolarization and it's oftent times used in aib a flutter a has four letters then you'll know everything that you need to know about beta blockers and the side effects that you should know are things that you already know from having done your pharmarmacology section so I'm going to leave that out for purposes of this discussion. But let's fill in our chart. Beta blockers are pretty simple. They block phase 4, which is your sodium potassium uh baseline leak current. It causes COPD exacerbation, impetence, and hypoglycemic masking. That one's really, really high yield. So know that if someone's hypoglycemic, but they're on a beta blocker, it can mask the symptoms of it. This is why in a in an overdose of beta blocker, you actually give glucagon. Examples are anything that end in ol. And just remember again that for our class 2 anti-arithmic beta blockers, everything has to do with the number four because there's four letters in beta. So phase 4, olib, naav. So that's everything that you need to know about beta blockers. Again, for the purposes of this discussion, we're paying very special attention to the cardiac action potential, the adverse drug reactions, which I sort of glossed over for beta blockers because you should already know them since you've done the pharmarmacology section. Um, but that's really everything that you should know. So, we've done class one, our sodium channel blockers, and now we've done class two, our beta blockers. Let's move on and talk about class three, our potassium channel blockers. So, the examples of potassium channel blockers include amiotarone, ibutylide, dophetylide, and sodal. And this is pretty easy to remember because it spells out the word aids. So, how will you remember that AIDS has to do with potassium? Well, you just have to memorize it unfortunately. AIDS are your potassium channel blockers, your class 3 anti-arithmics. So the mechanism of the potassium channel blockers are that these prolong phase three of repolarization. So in black you see the normal cardiac action potential. And what happens if you introduce a potassium channel blocker also known as a class 3 anti-arithythmic is that that you're going to prolong phase three of repolarization. And what you get is shown here in blue. Now, the way that you can memorize this is that potassium begins with the letter P. And if you draw out a letter P on top of this cardiac action potential, where the looped part of the letter P gets bigger or moves more to the right is how the cardiac action potential changes. So, I've drawn in the letter P on top of this action potential. and where that curvy part of the letter P is all the way on the right of the letter P, that'll move more and more to the right, which is really what happens if you prolong phase 3 of repolarization. Now, it's easy to remember this because potassium channel blockers are class 3 anti-arithmics and the mechanism is that they prolong phase three. So, three and three line up beautifully. So, this has to do with the letter three. So if, and just to really show you what I mean here, if I take out this P, but show you with red how this cardiac action potential is changing, we're prolonging phase three of repolarization. So again, we're prolonging the loopy part of the letter P shown here in red. So you've got your little depolarization and then the repolarization gets further and further to the right. So you can draw in the letter P and make that loopy part of the P get longer and longer and longer, aka move further and further to the right. And that's how the cardiac action potential changes. High yield adverse drug reactions to know there's a few and of course it should be no surprise they all have to do with the number three. So they all have three letters in them. One is that class 3 antiurythmics can cause torsads. And one of the ways that we write torsads in shorthand is TDP which has three letters. For amiotarone specifically this can be toxic to the lungs, toxic to the liver and toxic to the thyroid. So you want to check PFTS, LFTs, and TFTs. And notice that all of those things have three letters. So potassium channel blockers are class three. They prolong phase three of repolarization. And all of the high yield adverse drug reactions and tidbits of knowledge that you need to know have three letters. So torsads, TDP has three letters. Amiotarone, you want to check PFT, LFT, TFT, those all have three letters. And actually these drugs have effects that are similar to uh classes one two and three. So they can block some sodium, they can hit a little avodal and they can also do potassium. So they have similar features to three classes even though they're technically isolated as class 3 agents and specific that's specific to amiotarone. It's very very high yield. So again, potassium channel blockers, class 3, prolonged phase three. All adverse drug reactions have three letters. We remember the types of drugs with aids, aids, and everything that would probably come up on an exam. Typically, it'll be about amiotarone, but just know all of the examples for completeness sake. Remember that that amiotarone has class 1, two, and three effects. PFT, LFT, TFTs need to be checked, and these can all cause torsads. So that's your potassium channel blockers. If we complete our chart here, let's keep it going. Mechanism is that it prolongs phase three, which is your outward potassium current. So, because obviously it's blocking potassium, so it's blocking that part of the cardiac action potential. Your ADRs all with three letters and your examples, AIDS. Remember that most of your questions will come from amiotarone because it's a pretty unique pharmacologic agent. But know all of them for completeness sake. So, that's class three, our potassium channel blockers. We've now done class one, the sodiums. Class two, the beta blockers, and class three, the potassium channel blockers. To quickly refresh your memory, remember about our salty cab driver. That's our pneumonic for class one. Class two, beta has four letters. So, it's everything to do with the number four. Class three, uh, potassium is everything to do with the number three. And now, let's wrap up by talking about class 4, which is our calcium channel blockers. So, the calcium channel blockers are probably the easiest of these four classes to memorize. And that's because there's two drugs that you need to know in just two. They're verapamilil and deltayazm. And you've probably heard these names mentioned before, so they're a little bit easier to commit to memory. The mechanism here, it may seem complex at first, but I'm going to break this down and make this really simple for you. So calcium is really implicated all over the cardiac action potential. And depending on which source you read, you're probably going to see different bits of information as to which part of that action potential they affect. What I think that you should know is that calcium channel blockers are class 4 agents are class 4 anti-arithmics. They decrease the slope of phases 0 three and four. So if you look at how a calcium channel blocker will alter the cardiac action potential, it really doesn't make sense unless you memorize 0 3 and four. And it prolongs repolarization via the AV node which is the you know the phase 3 part of 0 3 and 4. So what you see here in black is the normal cardiac action potential. And if you introduce a calcium channel blocker, what you get is the movement from the black lines to the red lines. And again, the only way to really make sense of this is if you understand what phase of the cardiac action potential is changing and how the calcium channel blocker acts on them. So it decreases the slope of phase 0, phase 3, and phase 4. And for phase three specifically, it's prolonging repolarization by acting on the AV node. And this is why you can actually give calcium channel blockers in things like atrial fibrillation where you want to suppress AV nodal activity. So how do you remember this? Right? There's a lot going on. It's zero, it's three, it's four, it's AV nodal, blah blah blah. I know that it's overwhelming, but let's keep things stupid and let's keep things simple. So these are calcium channel blockers. And calcium has seven letters. What do you get if you add 0, three, and four? You get seven. So it decreases the slope of phases 0, phase 3, and phase 4. And phase 0 plus phase 3 plus phase 4 is a total of seven. And calcium has seven letters in it. The other thing that you can memorize to to remember that calcium are your class 4 agents is that of phases 0, 3, and four, the highest number in that group is four. So calcium is class 4. But the really important high yield takeaway here is how calcium channel blockers change the cardiac action potential. So be able to draw out the change from the black lines to the red lines. And if you understand the physiology of the cardiac action potential, then you can understand that phases 0, three, and four are really technically changing here. And that uh corresponds to what we see if we introduce a calcium channel blocker. The two adverse drug reactions to know here are the least high yield of all of the ones that I've gone over today, but it's lower extremity edema and constipation. So, let's fill in our chart. Our calcium channel blockers are our class 4 anti-arithmics. Again, they block phases 0 and four and prolong phase three. The way that you remember that is that 0 + 3 + 4 is seven and there are seven total letters in the word calcium. The adverse drug reactions are lower extremity, edema, and constipation. And two examples that you should recognize on exams would be verapamil and deltaazm. So that's it. This is your chart. You refer to the end of this video if you want to just look at the chart. I know that this is a little bit scary. It's a lot of information. But if you start this lecture by first reviewing the cardiac action potential and then going through these anti-arithythmics in order from class 1 to class 2 to class 3 to class 4, I think that you'll be able to tackle this really complex topic. Remember the most important thing to know here is how the cardiac action potential is changing. So be able to draw out the normal cardiac action potential and what happens to it when you introduce any of these anti-arithmic agents. Remember your adverse drug reactions especially for all of the class one agents and amiotarone. Those are the highest yield without question. But at the end of the day, this is a really, really terrible topic to learn. And I hope that I was able to simplify this for you.