So what you see here on the slide in gray is the fungal cell. And the first thing that we're going to talk about is how the fungal cell synthesizes components for structural integrity of the fungal plasma membrane. So just like how in human beings we use cholesterol to carry out different functions of the plasma membrane and give that plasma membrane structural integrity, the fungal cell also has something that is functionally identical to cholesterol and it's called arerosterol. So the pla the the fungal cell uses argol to maintain integrity of its plasma membrane. So first we're going to talk about how that that product that argol is synthesized. So you start with something called squaline and squaline gets converted into squaline epoxidase. Squaline epoxidase gets converted into lenoststerol and then that lenoststerol gets converted into the final product known as arerosterol. And it's that argol again that is the fungal cells version of cholesterol which gives its plasma membrane structural integrity. So I've depicted it here shown as these little pink boxes. It makes up the plasma membrane and allows for the certain passage of materials, cellular functions, etc. So the first drug that we're going to look at is one that prevents the formation of argol. Now the conversion of lentosterol to argol is done by an enzyme called 14 alpha dmethylase. And our first group of drugs is going to inhibit this enzyme. The drugs known as the aols inhibit 14 alpha demethylase. So drugs like clotrimmazol, fluconazol, and ketoconazole. So these all end in isol. And it should make sense to you that by inhibiting the conversion of lenossterol to argol, you can never make those little pink squares, which means you can never put them in the plasma membrane, which means that the plasma membrane of the fungal cell will not have structural integrity and it will die. So antifungal agents can kill funguses by preventing the formation of their preventing the stability and integrity of their plasma membrane leading to fungal cell death. So the aols inhibit 14 alpha demethylase. Now the step that converted squaline to squaline epoxide. So the the first step is done by an enzyme called squaline epoxidase. And with there's one drug that inhibits this enzyme squaline epoxidase and that drug is turbinophene. So turbinophene will basically do the same thing that the aols do. It just does it upstream by inhibiting squaline epoxidase. You never end up forming argol because you can never form the squaline epoxide etc etc. So turbinophene does pretty much the same thing as the aols. It just does it at a different location. So you should know at this point in the video that turbinophene and the aols all prevent the formation of eroststerol. Of course they do it through different mechanisms and they break up the integrity and the structural component of the fungal cell plasma membrane. Now let's talk about some other things that go on in the fungal cell and we'll also talk about some other antifungals. So just like humans, there's the plasma membrane which we've already talked about, but there's also the outer cell wall. And that fungal outer cell wall starts with uh components called beta glucans. And these beta glucans basically need to be activated from within the fungal cell and then transported through the plasma membrane out to the cell wall where they make up one of the outer layers of the fungal cell wall. And there's an enzyme that takes these betaglucans and activates them and basically finalizes them as they move out to the outer cell wall. And that enzyme is called betaglucan synthes. So betaglucan synthes takes inactivated betaglucans, activates them, puts on the final touches and then transports them out to the fungal cell wall where they protect the fungal cell. Now the group of antifungals that inhibits this process is specifically going to inhibit beta glucan synthes and this is the echininoandins. These are drugs like capsof fungan. So this group all ends in fungan fu n g i n. Caps fungan is an example of an achininoand. So these are inhibiting beta glucan synthes preventing the activation of betaglucans which prevents the structural components that make up the fungal cell wall. So just like with the aols and turbinophene if you inhibit a process which creates a barrier on the outside of the fungal cell you can kill the fungal cell. So that's how these work. Now the next group is amphoterasin B and nestatin and both of these substances are going to act on argol as you see on the bottom of this slide. What amphoterasin B will do is it sort of wedges itself in between the different argol components and creates these little holes or these little tears in the argol plasma membrane. And by tearing little holes in the argol plasma membrane, you can actually cause fungal cell death because once again, anytime you inhibit the integrity of the fungal cell, well, the fungal cell will simply die. So that's how amphotarasin B and nestatin works. These are heavyduty agents. Amphotarasin B is typically used in really bad systemic micosis and nestatin is actually used, you may have heard of swish and swallow. comes in um a liquid that you can swish around your mouth for like esophageal candidasis and things like that. So these are heavy, you know, heavier duty agents that are used in more severe fungal infections. The last group of antifungals that we should touch on are ones that act on either the DNA of the fungus or some type of component that's going on in the nucleus. So to simplify that, I'm going to draw in the nucleus here depicted by this black square with this white strand of DNA in the center. And the two agents that inhibit the DNA and and the motic process here are going to be fluocytosine and glyopolin. So fluocytosine will specifically mess with the DNA of the fungus and glyopolin will mess with the microtubules. So of course you need microtubules to undergo mitosis and pull apart your two cells as they split and that's what glyopolin will inhibit and fluocytosine will actually literally inhibit the DNA of the fungal cell because it wedges itself in there and gets converted to five uh fluoroicil by cytosine diaminise. So if you look at the name it's flu cytosine and it's being converted to five fluuro uricil by cytosine diaminase. So the name of the drug kind of tells you a little bit about the mechanism. So again just to quickly summarize and really beat this into your head flu cytosine inhibits the DNA of the fungal cell and glyopulin inhibits the microtubules which would prevent mitosis in the fungal cell. Okay, so they're working at the level of like the nucleus and the splitting of the cell or the DNA. So this slide is the summary of how all these different drugs work and on what part of the fungal cell that they work. Now let's overlay some really useful pneumonics to help you remember some things about these drugs. So I've put the pneumonics here in orange. Let's start at the top. Echininoandons. So to remind you that echininoandons inhibit cell wall synthesis. Eininoandon sounds like you kind of can't do and I always remembered you kind of can't do cell wall synthesis if you give an echinoandon. So that's how I remember remember that you kind of can't do cell wall synthesis if you give echinoandons for the aols. Well, the the aols prevent erostosterol. And I always used to say that the assh the drugs, these are drugs, right? They they really mess with the fungal cell. So these are And the prevent erostosterol. That kind of rhymes if you say it in the right way. The will prevent eroststerol. So it rhymes. And it also is kind of funny because I always remember remember these as the drugs. Like these are right? They they just mess up the fungal cell. It's like the first line agent that's given. It's like, oh, you know, got a fungus, give them an drug because the the fungal cell perceives these drugs as Okay? And they all end in all. So, it kind of works for amphoterasin B. Remember amphotinhole. So, they tear a hole in the plasma membrane. Amphotin. They tear a hole. Okay. For turbinophene, I don't have a good pneumonic. Um for flu cytosine I'm not going to waste your time with one because the name of the drug sort of hints at the mechanism uh the conversion to five fluoroicil with flu and then it's done by cytosine diaminase. So flu and cytosine are literally in the name. So tbinophene and glyopulin don't get a pneumonic kind of canandon. Well you kind of can't do cell wall synthesis. You can amphot tear ascend. You tear a hole in the plasma membrane at aergoststerol and the drugs inhibitor. Okay, so those are my pneumonics. Um you might find them useful. The last thing that we should talk about are the side effects of amphoterasin B. So because this is the really heavyduty antifungal, it's got some heavy duty side effects. And what you should remember is amphibitis. So amphoterasin you just say amphibitis. This does cause flabitis. This also is known to cause like repeated fever and chills. Um you as a general rule of thumb with any pharmarmacology, you should never memorize non-specific side effects. So if you ever see like fatigue or nausea, it's not worth memorizing. But this is one of the exceptions to that rule. Amphoterasin B for whatever reason just causes uh consistent fever and and chill and fatigue. So the way that I remember that is I imagine being really cold because I have a fever and when you're really cold you you know you're like you you know you're shivering so teras that's how I always remembered that like as if you had a fever and chills and you were so cold that you were kind of stuttering a little bit so ter that's how I always memorize that fever chill um recurrent presentation and then the last thing is am flow flarrison. And the reason that I memorized amphlarasin is because amphoterasin B actually alters the permeability and the flow component um of the nephron. So it can cause alteration of electrolyte levels especially things like magnesium and potassium. So the flow through the nephron is altered because of changes in permeability. And I always memorize that by saying amph flow terasin because the flow through the nephron changed significantly which should also cue you that this causes nephrotoxicity if that's not already obvious. So here's some easy ways to remember all of that but again this is the summary slide. I hope that I was able to simplify this for you. Antifungals are are not too complex but you you do need to know their mechanisms. You have to keep the different enzymes you see here straight. Be able to compartmentalize this in your brain. I hope that the pneumonics are helpful. Don't forget this stuff about amphoterasin. And that's it. Good luck.