 In this video, I will teach you everything that you need to know about aphasia to both pass your exams, so USMLE and COMLEX, but also get a jump start on some basic terminology and key differences that you might find useful if you're doing something like neurology rotation or an internal medicine rotation. Aphasia is confusing because there are various different types of aphasia and many of them have overlapping features. So let's start with a brief overview. blue here, that describes what the patient can do speech-wise. So in the case of Broca aphasia, Broca is a non-fluent aphasia, which means speech-wise they are non-fluent. It's also described descriptively as an expressive aphasia, and this describes what they have trouble with. So in the case of Broca aphasia, they have trouble expressing themselves. This is the reason that they are non-fluent. So these are descriptive terms that are interchangeable that you might see on your exam or on your clinical rotations. So Broca aphasia, when we look at Broca aphasia, we've already established that this is a non-repetition aphasia. So I started you off with the big question, is repetition intact? The answer was no, it was impaired. Now all we need to understand is whether the patient is fluent and whether the patient can comprehend. Now I've kind of given it away already because we just talked about that one way of describing Broca aphasia is a non-fluent or expressive aphasia, which literally means they're non-fluent, so they don't have fluency, and they have trouble with expression, which is another way of describing non-fluency. So right off the bat, we know that Broca aphasia, the patients are non-fluent. We already know that they do not have repetition because we've created these two broad categories, but they do have intact comprehension. Broca aphasia is due to damage to the inferior frontal gyrus, which if you are in your anatomy classes is Brodman areas 44 and 45. Now the way that Broca patients will present to you is that they will be aware of their speech and language deficits, and this will make them frustrated and will make them upset. Their words will be contextually correct and intelligible, but spontaneous speech and grammatical structure is diminished. So let's do an example. Let's say that a patient with Broca aphasia intends to say the phrase, I want a cookie now. The patient would instead say something along the lines of, I want a cookie. So as you can see, the context is correct. The words are intelligible, right? The words make sense, but the grammatical structure and the spontaneity or the fluency is diminished. And so there's this hesitancy of speech because the patients are non-fluent, but that context and that structure is correct because comprehension is intact. These patients will feel like they know what they want to say, but they can't produce the right words. Again, this is a problem with fluency, a problem with expression. Patients will be unable to translate the mental image in their head to the words and language that they are producing. So big picture here, Broca aphasia, they understand, they know what they want to say, but they can't say it. And because this is not a transcortical aphasia, repetition is impaired. So the mnemonic here is that in Broca's, speech is b-r-o-k-n. And the reason I said it like that is Broca's is broken. A lot of people say Broca's is broken. But if you say the word broken, like how somebody who has a non-fluent aphasia might say it, it'll help you memorize what the speech pattern looks like. And I think that that's important and valuable for you because there could be a possibility that you're taking your exam and they give you a video of a patient who has Broca aphasia and simply ask you either something like, what's the aphasia? Obviously you'd pick Broca's, or they might even say, where is the lesion in the brain? What Brodman area are you dealing with? And so you want to associate the actual prosody and pattern of the speech with the aphasia. So that's Broca's aphasia. Again, you got to know this table. They're non-fluent. They do have comprehension. They can't repeat. Broca's speech is broken. Now let's do Wernicke aphasia. Again, fluent describes what they can do speech-wise. So these patients are fluent. So they have fluency. And this is described as a receptive aphasia. So they have trouble with reception, which is another way of saying comprehension. So in Wernicke aphasia, as I just said, it is fluent. However, comprehension is impaired. And as we've already established several slides ago, repetition is impaired because this is not a transcortical aphasia. So if you walked up to a patient and you said, please repeat the phrase, no ifs, ands, or buts, a patient with Wernicke aphasia would not be able to do that. This is due to damage to the posterior superior temporal gyrus. For you anatomy fans out there, this is Brodman area number 22. These patients tend to not be aware of their deficits. They tend not to be as upset as a patient with Broca aphasia. Their speech will have normal prosody, normal fluency, and grammatical rules because again, a Wernicke aphasia is fluent. However, they usually will have paraphasic errors, which means that they'll substitute syllables, sounds, and phonemes, and they'll form new words, which are called neologisms. Collectively, what this will sound like is word salad. So if a patient is talking to you with normal rhythm, with normal prosody, with normal grammatical rules, but the words is just word salad. There's some new words in there, syllables are switched around, phonemes are switched around. It doesn't make sense. The sentence structure is Wernicke aphasia. So it's very, very typical to see a very big word salad in Wernicke aphasia. And so obviously my mnemonic here is that in Wernicke, speech is Wernicke. Wernicke to mean very wordy, very word salad-y. In Wernicke, speech is Wernicke. You got to know this table. Wernicke aphasia is a fluent aphasia. So yes, they are fluent, but no, they don't understand. And because they don't understand, they don't have comprehension, the sentence structure has good and normal rhythm, but it's word salad. It will not make sense. And obviously, I'm going to keep repeating this so that you memorize it. Because this is not a transcortical aphasia, repetition is impaired. In Wernicke, speech is Wernicke. Now let's talk about a conduction aphasia. This is also described as an associative aphasia, which as that descriptor implies, patients have difficulty associating language, which is a fancy way of saying connecting the Broca and Wernicke's area. Now, obviously, that is, I'm taking a leap there to say that. But this is due to damage to the arcuate fasciculus of the parietal lobe, which has a white matter tract that connects Broca and Wernicke's area. So the reason that I said that they have problems with association is because in my brain, what that means is that the tract that associates Broca and Wernicke's area, there's damage there. And that tract is known as the arcuate fasciculus. So in a conduction aphasia, patients will be fluent, patients will understand, but they can't repeat. And so if you think about what Wernicke's area does, and you think about what Broca's area does, the arcuate fasciculus is really important for integrating and connecting those two areas. So patients will understand the language because Wernicke area is intact, which I could say in another way, patients will have intact comprehension. Patients will be able to produce the speech and be fluent because their Broca's area is intact. However, they cannot transmit information from Wernicke's to Broca's, which means they can't transmit their understanding of language to their fluency or expression of language. And therefore, they can't repeat language, because that arcuate fasciculus is impaired. This is not the scientifically correct way to think about on a biochemical or pathophysiological level what's really happening here. But it makes sense in my brain because that arcuate fasciculus, that white matter tract, can't integrate these two areas. And in my brain, I'm like, okay, that's the reason that repetition is impaired. So in a conduction aphasia, patients cannot repeat, and they'll have phonological sequencing errors. And this will be especially prominent with polysyllabic sentences. Patients will make phonemic paraphasic errors, and they can generate neologisms, even though their comprehension is intact. They might use semantic routes to approximate the word that they want to say and try to self-correct mistakes. So if they keep talking, eventually they can approach the right word and get closer to sounding like they want, sounding like the word they want to say, but they have difficulty naming objects. So a conduction aphasia, I'll be honest, this description is less important. My experience on exams has been that if they want you to go after a conduction aphasia, they're going to describe the patient to you, and they're going to ask you to identify the arcuate fasciculus, either by arrow or by area, etc. So the way that I've always memorized this is when I think of conduction aphasia, I think of the conductor. And the conductor is the connection between the orchestra and the audience. And I drew that little arcing arrow in there because that's kind of looks to me like where the arcuate fasciculus connects Broca and Wernicke area. Without the conductor, the orchestra cannot repeat the music. And that always reminded me that with a conduction aphasia, fluency is fine, comprehension is fine, right? The orchestra can be fluent and make the music. The audience comprehends and understands the music, but without the conductor or in a conduction aphasia, the orchestra can't repeat the music. So repetition is impaired. I know that's stupid, but hey, if it works, it works. And then let's close here with global aphasia. Admittedly, of the impaired repetition aphasias, this is the least likely to show up on your exam. But it is the most common type of aphasia. And in a global aphasia, everything's impaired. There's no fluency, there's no comprehension. And because this is not a transcortical aphasia, repetition is impaired. And it should make sense to you that this is due to damage to all of Broca Wernicke and the arcuate fasciculus. So everywhere you see purple arrows here, if everything gets knocked out, there's no fluency, there's no Wernicke, or excuse me, there's no fluency, there's no comprehension, and there's no repetition. These patients will be mute or mutter only basic sounds. And they tend to express themselves with extremely basic facial gestures because all of their language areas are impaired. So before we go into the transcortical aphasias and kind of switch gears a bit, here is a summary slide. I don't like tables, as most of you know, but I think this can be useful if you're just looking to rehash some of what we've talked about. Again, in a Broca aphasia, you're looking at a non-fluent aphasia, but with intact comprehension. The damage is in the inferior frontal gyrus. In a Wernicke aphasia, you have fluency. However, you don't have comprehension. This is due to damage in the temporal lobe to the posterior superior temporal gyrus. In a conduction aphasia, that's due to damage to the arcuate fasciculus. Comprehension is intact, and fluency is intact, but they can't repeat. And in a global aphasia, the most common type of aphasia, everything is impaired. And what separates these types of aphasias from a transcortical aphasia is that in all of them, repetition is impaired. And that is a dead giveaway for how, again, I look at this flowchart. Can they repeat? If no, you're dealing with the common Broca, Wernicke, conduction, and global. If they can repeat, you're looking at a transcortical aphasia. So those are the higher yield ones for USMLE and Comlex. If you don't care about transcortical aphasias and you want to stop here, this is a point where you can jump off this video. But for completeness sake, let's talk about transcortical aphasias. So let's start with transcortical, transcortical motor aphasias. The way that I conceptualize transcortical aphasias is that they're basically the Broca and Wernicke, etc. Like they're basically the aphasias that we just talked about. They just have the ability to do repetition. And so when we look at transcortical motor, they have problems with fluency, right? So they're non-fluent, but they have intact comprehension and they have intact repetition because now we're talking about transcortical and all of the transcortical aphasias have intact repetition. Now this is due to damage to the supplementary motor area in the frontal lobe. So what you can think of with transcortical motor is that this is essentially Broca, but with repetition. Because if you cover up repetition and look at just fluency and comprehension, it follows the exact same pattern as Broca. The only difference here is that they can repeat the phrase, no ifs, ands, or buts, or whatever other phrase the clinician uses to test their repetition. So transcortical motor, just think of that as Broca plus repetition. Likewise, transcortical sensory is basically Wernicke plus repetition. So let's look at this. Transcortical sensory, they do have fluency, so they are fluent, but they have impaired comprehension. If you covered up repetition here, being fluent but not comprehending is Wernicke's. Wernicke's, they can't repeat, but in transcortical sensory, they can repeat. So transcortical sensory, that is Wernicke's plus repetition. Now this is due to damage to the inferior left temporal lobe. I know that's a general area. Don't really worry about pinpointing the anatomy on the transcortical aphasias because the anatomical locations tend to be less precise, hence the word transcortical. However, transcortical sensory equals Wernicke plus repetition. And then there's this thing called transcortical mixed. In transcortical mixed, they are non-fluent, they do not comprehend, but they have intact repetition. This is due to damage to the watershed areas surrounding the language centers. I'm not that concerned with transcortical mixed. I think if you're studying just for exams, understanding transcortical motor and transcortical sensory is more than sufficient. But what I want you to take away, just to really make this make sense in your brain, is that transcortical motor is basically Broca's plus repetition, and that transcortical sensory is basically Wernicke's plus repetition. And so my mnemonic for memorizing that is motor mimics Broca and sensory is similar to Cernicke. Now obviously I changed the B in Broca to an M and the W in Wernicke to an S to make this mnemonic easier to memorize, but motor or transcortical motor mimics Broca. So transcortical motor equals Broca plus repetition. Sensory is similar to Cernicke. So transcortical sensory is basically Wernicke or Cernicke plus repetition. And again, the reason that I think that this is useful for you if you're studying for exams is that if you memorize what Broca is and you memorize what Wernicke is, then if you take that one step further using this mnemonic, you also know what transcortical motor is and you also know what transcortical sensory is without really doing a lot of additional thinking because it's basically Broca and Wernicke plus the ability to do repetition. So I hope that that makes sense. I'm trying to simplify this for you. Motor mimics Broca. Sensory is similar to Cernicke.