In this video, I'm going to be talking about the autonomic nervous system with a special emphasis on autonomic nervous system pharmarmacology. That said, although the focus of this video is going to be on all of the different drugs that you need to know regarding the autonomic nervous system, I'm still going to touch on things like the different types of receptors and just general physiology in the autonomic nervous system to help you establish the background information that's needed to really master the pharmarmacology. Now, let's get into today's video. And I want to sort of paint an overview of the autonomic nervous system before we start talking about nitty-gritty details. The autonomic nervous system is broken down into two components. You've got the sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system. Now, classically, you might have heard of these as referred to fight orflight and rest and digest. So the sympathetic nervous system is what kicks in when your body needs to activate itself in the presence of extreme stress. And the the example you can think about is this is the constellation of findings and symptoms that you'll see if you need to decide to fight a bear or to run away from the bear. And then the parasympathetic nervous system is the complete opposite. And this is the peripheral nervous system that gets activated when you don't need to activate large groups of muscles and hormones and instead you're either resting or digesting. So the classic example is you have a huge meal and then these are the constellations of symptoms and findings that you'll see as your body is just processing that meal in the visca. So the way that you should think about this in terms of receptors is that the sympathetic nervous system works through alpha and beta receptors whereas the parasympathetic nervous system works through muscerinic and nicotinic receptors. Now I'm taking some liberties here when I simplify these two nervous systems down to just two receptors. Again this is not going to be an allincclusive list but this is how you can think about it to form a conceptualization in your brain. Now, one thing that's really important that I must point out before we go any further is that these two nervous systems or I should say these two subcomponents of the autonomic nervous system, they work opposite one another. So, if the parasympathetic nervous system is activated, it's going to inhibit the sympathetic nervous system. And just just likewise, if the sympathetic nervous system is activated, it's going to inhibit the parasympathetic nervous system. And this just kind of makes sense, right? If you are walking through the woods and all of a sudden a bear comes charging at you, if your body is going to activate the sympathetic nervous system so that you can either fight the bear or run away from the bear, you don't want your body to be doing things that it would need to do if you were digesting a meal because that would be a waste of resources, a waste of blood, etc. So, just remember that when one of these systems is activated, the other one is turned off. And that's going to be useful as you'll see later in this video to try to figure out what the effects of different drugs are based on the mechanism. Now, before we go any further, what we probably should do is just paint a general overview of the parasympathetic nervous system. The reason I think this is going to be useful is because the bulk of today's video, in fact, all of the pharmarmacology in today's video will be on the parasympathetic side. If you're interested in learning about sympathetic pharmarmacology, see my other video about the different types of graphs, etc. I have a video on that. It's not as detailed as this one, but I want the focus of this video to be on parasympathetic agents because those are by and large the highest yield that come up on USMLE and complex. So, let's talk briefly about the parasympathetic nervous system. The parasympathetic nervous system functions to control involuntary visceral body organs and it's said to have craniosacral outflow. Now that's really just a buzzword which means that the parasympa the parasympathetic nervous system originates at the cranial nerves and has functioning down to the sacral nerves. Now this is in contrast to the sympathetic nervous system which is said to have thoracco lumbar outflow. So, it's really just where those nerve fibers are coming from. What you should really pay attention to, and hence why I put it in red here, is that there are four cranial nerves that have parasympathetic activity. And within those cranial nerve tracks, there are bilateral nuclei that have very specific parasympathetic function. And I've seen this come up. This is incredibly high yield, especially if you're in your first two years of medical school. When you're learning about cranial nerves, when you're learning about the autonomic nervous system, this will probably be on your exam. So you need to know the cranial nerve and the corresponding parasympathetic nuclei and what it does. So for example, cranial nerve 3 is paired with the edinger westfall nucleus which controls meiosis and accommodation. Cranial nerve 7 is paired with the superior salivary nucleus which controls salivation specifically in the lacrimal gland. Cranial nerve 9 is paired with the inferior salivary nucleus which controls salivation in the parotted gland. And cranial nerve 10 is the dorsal veagal nucleus which controls secretions in the GI tract and lungs. This is really high yield because other cranial nerves do not have parasympathetic function and they're also not you know they're not associated with these nuclei in their tracks. So you need to know again just to summarize here you need to know the cranial nerve the nucleus that it's paired with and what the function of that nucleus/cranial nerve tract does which is shown in blue on this slide. The major neurotransmitter of the parasympathetic nervous system is acetylcholine. And that's really really important to understand if you're going to keep all of the pharmarmacology straight here. And we'll we'll touch more on that in just a bit. But what we need to do now is talk about all the different types of parasympathetic receptors. Now the parasympathetic nervous system, if you go back to the slide a couple slides ago, I told you that it it functions through muscerinic receptors and nicotinic receptors. And the way that you'll see this written out in review textbooks or question banks or even on your exam is with the capital letter M or the capital letter N. For the purposes of today's video, we're only going to talk about muscerinic receptors because the nicotinic receptors are are really not that high yield. They're just not. The muscerinic receptors, they very much are. So, we're going to talk about all these different subtypes of muscerinic receptors, which I will denote with the capital letter M. And these are the receptors that acetylcholine is binding to or that the drug is binding to and either being an agonist or an antagonist. So again, before we get to the pharmacology, you need to understand receptors. So let's just kind of make a chart here. I don't love charts, but you'll see some charts in today's video because it'll help your brain keep all of this information neat and tidy. So the first receptors that we should talk about are M1, M4 and M5 muscerinic receptors. These are all located in the CNS, the central nervous system. And really they control cognition. So when you give somebody a drug that is an agonist at any one of these three receptors, it has proco- cognitive effects. So it helps them learn, it helps them pay attention, it helps them speak, it helps them do spatial tasks, verbal tasks, etc. And then consequently, if you give somebody a drug which is an antagonist at M1, M4 or M5, this has the opposite effect. So, it's anti-cognitive, which means if you give somebody an anti-muscarinic drug, meaning you're blocking a muscerinic receptor, specifically M1, M4, or M5, it makes it harder for them to learn and do cognitive tasks. The next receptor that we need to talk about is the M2 receptor. And this is located in the heart. If you give somebody a drug which is an agonist at the M2 receptor, it causes breda cardia. And if you give somebody a drug which is an antagonist at the M2 receptor, it causes well the opposite tacocardia. And it also causes increased AV nodal conduction. The next receptor we need to talk about is the M3 receptor. And there's actually five different locations where this M3 receptor is found. As you can see in that in the cells that I bolded there for you. So every other uh site that I'm going to talk about now, these are all M3 receptors. So they'll all fall in that line and below. The first M3 receptor that we're going to talk about is found in the urinary tract. And if you give somebody a drug which is an agonist at the M3 receptor, it will cause bladder contraction which will cause urination because the bladder has to squeeze and contract and push that urine out. And then consequently, if you give somebody a drug which is an antagonist at the M3 receptor, it will cause bladder relaxation, which will be the opposite of urination. So, it'll cause urinary retention. Now, this should make a little bit of sense to you because if you've studied any of your versus antiolinergic medications, you might be familiar with the fact that if you give somebody an antiolinergic drug, it causes urinary retention. And the reason is on a microscopic level because you're antagonizing M3 receptors found in the urinary tract. The next location that we'll talk about for M3 receptors is the GI tract. When you give somebody a drug which acts as an agonist at the M3 receptor in the GI tract, it causes paristalsis. So this causes bowel movements, diarrhea if you give too much. But if you give a drug that's an antagonist at the M3 receptor in the GI tract and causes the opposite effect, it decreases paristtoalsis. So giving somebody too much of an anti-muscarinic agent that's antagonizing the M3 receptor in the GI tract causes things like constipation. Okay? So just try to keep all of this information straight in your head. And I hope you're building a framework to understand versus antiolineric as we go. The next location of M3 receptors are the exocrine glands. When you give somebody a drug which acts as an agonist at the M3 receptors in the exocrine glands, it causes an increased level of secretions coming from that gland. And then if you give somebody a drug which is an antagonist at the M3 receptors in the exocrine glands, it causes the opposite effect. It decreases secretions. So this is why when you give somebody an antiolineric also known as antimuscerinic drug that blocks the M3 receptor in the exocrine gland you cause the side effect of dry mouth. The next location that we'll talk about for the M3 receptors is in the eye. If you give somebody a drug which is an agonist at the M3 receptor in the eye, it causes meiosis. If you give somebody a drug that's an antagonist at the M3 receptor in the eye, it causes the opposite. It causes madriasis. And these are th these receptors um these M3 receptors in the eye. This is the reason that certain muscerinic or antimuscerinic drugs are used in glaucoma. The final location of M3 receptors that we'll talk about is in the airway. If you give somebody a drug which is an agonist at the M3 receptor in the airway, it causes bronco constriction. And then the opposite, if you give somebody a drug which is an antagonist at the M3 receptor in the airway, it causes bronco dilation. Now, let's pause for a second because I just threw a ton of information at you and I don't want to overwhelm you. Let's try to keep things straight here. If you look at the agonist actions here, you look at that whole column of agonist actions, what you should notice is that muscerinic agonists equals chonergic effects because you're using acetylcholine which equals anti-ympathetic effects. So think about this. You're turning on when you give somebody an agonist, you're turning on a receptor. When you turn on a muscerinic receptor, you're allowing acetylcholine to do its natural job at all of these different muscerinic receptors and the clinical effects prognition brada cardia bladder contraction so that you urinate increased paristtoalsis so that you have a bowel movement increased secretions so that you salivate meiosis that the eye narrows and bronco constriction it's a little harder to breathe. All of these effects are anti-ympathetic effects. So, go back to my classic example. If you're walking through the woods and a bear jumps out at you from behind a tree and you you don't want to turn on the muscerinic aka coneric sympto system because doing so is anti-ympathetic. And think about this. If you're about to fight or run from a bear, which is stuff that you would do through the sympathetic nervous system, do you really want your body peeing, pooping, salivating, narrowing your pupil so you can't see and pay attention to the bear, bronco constricting your lungs so that you can't breathe as you're about to start this fight for your life? Right? Think about it. You just don't want these effects. So to summarize, when you give somebody a drug which is a muscerinic agonist, you're giving them a chonergic drug and the clinical effects are anti-sympathetic. I hope that that makes sense to you. Let's talk about the opposite. Look at the antagonist column here. All of these antagonist effects, these are muscerinic antagonist. If you give somebody a drug that blocks these receptors, it's a muscerinic antagonist, aka antiolineric. And clinically anti-olonurgic or anti-muscarinic you could say anti-parasympathetic that is sympathetic. Okay. So the let's look at all these effects. Anti-cognitive tacocardia. The bladder relaxes so you won't urinate. You'll hold the urine. Paristalsis turns down so you will not have a bowel movement. You'll keep the the poop in your GI tract. Your secretions go down. your pupils will dilate and you'll bronco dilate. Now, let's think about our classic example. A bear jumps out at you from behind a tree and you basically turn off the parasympathetic nervous system and that's functionally identical to giving somebody a muscerinic antagonist because an antagonist would block the parasympathetic nervous system i.e. it would be anticolinergic. So, if that bear jumps out at you, you get tacoc cardia because your heart rate goes up. You're going to have to have an increased cardiac output to either fight the bear or run away. Your bladder will relax, meaning you won't urinate because why would you want to urinate when you're about to fight for your life? Paristtoalsis will go down, so you won't poop, which makes perfect sense to me. If I'm about to fight a grizzly bear, I definitely don't want to be having diarrhea. Secretions will go down. Your pupil will dilate, which makes perfect sense because you need to see what's happening in front of you and react accordingly. and your airway will broncoilate because you're going to need to be able to breathe more efficiently as you try to put this bear in its place. So, the reason I'm simplifying this is to just point out that whether you're agonizing muscerinic receptors or blocking muscerinic receptors, the clinical constellation of findings is can be said to be either anti-ympathetic or sympathetic. And if you make that framework in your brain, it's a lot easier to understand these receptors and the effects that all of these different drugs have. Now, let's go back and start talking about actual pharmarmacology. Now, when you give somebody a medication that acts on the parasympathetic nervous system, it's going to have one of two effects. That is to say that medications can either be parasympaathomimetic meaning it mimics the parasympathetic nervous system or it can have the opposite of that. It can be anti-parasympathomimetic meaning it is an anti-olonergic agent. So the right side of this chart, these are your colonomimetics, meaning it mimics the natural function of acetylcholine when acetylcholine would bind to and agonize all of those muscerinic receptors we just talked about. And then on the other side on the left side, these are anti-olonergics or anti-olinomics, meaning that when you give these medications, they would block the muscerinic receptors that we talked about on the last slide and have the opposite effects. So, we need to talk about all of the different drugs that are either antiolinergic or cononergic. So, let's start on the left side of this chart because it's a little bit easier to start on that side. So, let's get the easy stuff out of the way. Your antiolinergic agents that you need to memorize for medical school exams, graduate school exams, USMLE and COMLEX are shown here. atropene, scopalamine, benropene, trihexenadil, oxybutin, dicycllcamine, glycopyrolate and epatroprium or teotroprium. Now the way to think about this is that all of these drugs are anticolinergic. All of these drugs block muscerinic receptors aka all of these drugs block either M1, M2, M3, M4, M5. Now let's talk about them individually and I'll do that on a chart. So we've got all these drugs. We're going to talk about two things. Their use clinically and my pneumonic if you need help memorizing something about these drugs. So let's start with atropene. Atropene is used in the treatment of poisoning. It's also used in unstable brada cardia. So I'm sure if you've done any um ACLS you remember in the algorithm that in unstable brada cardia you're actually giving people atropene and now that you understand how the M2 receptor in the heart works this should make perfect sense to you because when you antagonize the M2 receptor in the heart you cause tacocardia so you're treating unstable brada cardia now because atropene is a highly anticolinergic medication if somebody has chonergic poisoning meaning they overdosed on a colonergic agent. Well, you give them an antiolinergic agent because you're just going to reverse those clinical effects. My pneumonic for remembering this is that atropene treats the atrocious effects of organo phosphate poisoning. Atro reminds me of atropene. Atropene atrocious and organo phosphates those are the substances that are highly conurgic. So on test day, if you have a question, somebody does like yard work or they even even maybe overdose on an actual medication and they show a constellation of symptoms that are all conurgic. So they're like having diarrhea, etc. Um you would give them atropene because you're going to treat the conergic poisoning. Now let's talk about scopalamine. Scopalamine is used to treat motion sickness. And if you live on a coastal town or you've ever gone to the beach, um you have a boat maybe cuz you're a baller and you've got your $5 million yacht, you'll notice that a lot of the stores around those areas, they all sell scopalamine. Scopalamine is taken by people that get seasickness. It treats motion sickness. It can treat some of the vertigo symptoms that people with vertigo experience. The way that I memorize this is scopamine instead of scopalamine because it treats the motion sickness that would make you puke. Benstropene and trihexenadil I I'll tell you at the same time can both treat extrapuryal side effects. Um more so benropine than trihexenadil. Tryhexenadil really has more uses in Parkinson's disease. But both of these because they are able to cross the bloodb brain barrier and get into the central nervous system. They can act on the receptors in the central nervous system and because they're antiolineric they treat extra pureal side effects. I don't have a good pneumonic to memorize these so if you have one please put it in the comments section of this video. Oxybutin classically is used to treat overactive bladder. It's pretty easy to memorize. My pneumonic is you just look at the O and the B in oxybutin. That stands for overactive bladder. OB overactive bladder oxybutin OB. pretty easy to remember. Dicycllcamine is used um for a couple different reasons, but mostly in irritable bowel syndrome. And the way that I memorize that is um diarrhea that's cyclical. So DI and diarrhea for di and then cyclical for cyclloamine. So dycamine diarrhea cyclical. People with irritable bowel syndrome tend to have cyclical diarrhea. And this treats that. So think about it. When you give somebody an anti-olonergic drug or an anti-muscerinic drug, you're blocking the M3 receptors in the GI tract that usually if agonized would cause increased paristalsis. So by doing that, you treat irritable bowel syndrome in the sense that you slow down paristalsis and treat the diarrhea. Glyopyrolate has a couple different uses. The two main ones that you should know are it treats salaria and it treats um it's used in surgery to control heart rate. Don't have a great pneumonic so drop it in the comments if you got one. And then epotroprium and the related teotroprium are used in COPD/asthma because when you give somebody an antiolinergic agent you're causing bronco dilation which is obviously extremely useful in these diseases. Again not a great pneumonic there. So if you have one, please put yours in the comment of this video. But this is just an overview of the very high yield antiolineric, also known as anti-parasympathomimetic agents that all are acting as antagonists at the various muscerinic receptors that we've talked about. So in terms of creating a a concept in your brain, a framework in your brain, look at this chart. in the parasympathetic subsection of the autonomic nervous system. These are drugs which block the natural function of acetylcholine. So they're known as anti-muscarinic, antiolineric, antiparasympathomimetic. And because they are blocking the parasympathetic nervous system functionally or clinically the findings in the body are the same things you'll see if you turned on the sympathetic nervous system. So I hope that that makes sense. Now let's jump and talk about the right side of this chart. So what happens when you give somebody a parasympathomimetic drug also known as a chonergic or colonomimetic agent. So these drugs will agonize the M receptors and by doing so will cause the effects that you would see if you allowed acetylcholine to naturally agonize different receptors. Now there's actually two subtypes of groups that can carry out this effect. We've got first I'll talk about the direct muscerinic agonists. So what these drugs basically do is just as the name implies they directly agonize different muscerinic receptors. So you've got a muscerinic receptor shown in black. You've got these drugs which are acting as the liand shown in blue. And literally the drug will sit in the receptor bind to the receptor and carry out the clinical effect. The other option is you've got indirect muscerinic agonists and these are a little bit more complex and because of that unfortunately for you on USML complex and medical school exams these tend to get tested more often. So let me just take kind of an extra minute or two here to talk about what's going on. So to do that let's look at a neuromuscular junction or any syninnapse for that matter. In the syninnapse, you've got little acetylcholine floating around as depicted by the little pink neurotransmitters on this slide. And let's kind of take a snapshot of that black box and zoom in a 100 times to look at what's happening microscopically. So what's happening microscopically here is normally you've got acetylcholine which would kind of go around. It would do its thing and it would bind to that post synaptic muscerinic receptor. Now, the body doesn't want acetylcholine binding to the postsaptic muscerinic receptors for too long, right? Because if that were the case, then you would have way too many clinical effects of acetylcholine agonizing receptors and you'd have things like diarrhea, blah blah blah, all the stuff we talked about. So, what does the body normally do? Well, there's an enzyme called acetylcholine asterase. And what that enzyme does is it comes and it approaches acetylcholine. it attacks the acetylcholine and breaks down the acetylcholine and now there's no more acetylcholine in the syninnapse available to carry out its clinical effect. The way that these indirect agonists work is that they actually interfere in this process. So let's say that you have acetylcholine eststerase which would like to approach the acetylcholine neurotransmitter and break it down but you give somebody a medication which is an indirect muscerinic agonist. The reason that they're called indirect muscerinic agonists is because they actually block acetylcholine eststerase. So by doing so they indirectly increase the amount of acetylcholine available in the syninnapse and therefore acetylcholine can bind to the post um the postsaptic muscerinic receptor and carry out its clinical effect. So the way that you should keep this in your brain is that you've got direct muscerinic agonists and you've also got indirect muscerinic agonists and specifically the mechanism of all of the indirect muscerinic aagonist is that they are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. So they inhibit the thing that normally breaks down acetylcholine thereby increasing effectively increasing acetylcholine which allows those drugs to carry out parasympathomimetic effects. So these are the two options on this side of the chart. Let's start by talking about the four main drugs you need to know that are direct muscerinic agonist. They include bethanol, carbol, methylacoline, and pilocarpine. Now, let me try to simplify this for you. Look at the name of all of these agents. And with the exception, of course, of pilocarpine, they all have coal in the name. And that's because these are direct coalergic agonists. So, if you get caught up on test day and you can't remember what the exact mechanism is, if it has coal in the name, it's a direct coalergic agonist. Let's talk about these medications briefly in a chart. So we've got bethanol, carbocol, methyloline and pilocarpine. You need to know the use and I'll give you a pneumonic if I have one. So for bethanol it's used in urinary retention. Uh carbol is used to decrease intraoccular pressure in glaucoma because it causes meiosis. Methyloline is used in the bronchial challenge tests, sometimes referred to as the methyloline challenge test to help diagnose asthma. Pilocarpine is used in the treatment of Shogrin syndrome. Um, it's used in the treatment of dry eyes because it causes lacrimmation. Uh, and it's used in the diagnostic test to diagnose cystic fibrosis because it makes you sweat, right? It increases secretions and that's useful to help diagnose cystic fibrosis in the in the sweat test. Now I have two pneumonics for you for Bethanol and for pilocarpine. For for Bethanol the way that you can remember this is that Beth pisses me off. Beth for Bethanol and pisses me off because uh it's used in urinary retention. Okay? Because since it is a chonergic or a muscerinic drug, it agonizes the M3 receptors in the urinary tract which helps bladder contraction which helps cause urination. For pilocarpine, you want to say that all the gross stuff uh happens on the pillow, right? So, this is kind of a gross pneummonic here, but you've got sweat, tears, uh blood, what like all there's all these different substances that you can wake up in the morning and see on your your pillow. I know you don't lie, guys. I know you're all drooling on your pillow all night and crying yourself to sleep because of how how awesome my videos are. It just makes you so happy that you cry. But anyway, you wake up in the morning and you see all of that gross stuff on your pillow, pillow for pilocarpine. And all the gross stuff is salivation, lacrimmation, and sweat, which is the the use for pilocarpine because you are agonizing the M3 receptors in all of your different exocrine glands. Again, unfortunately, I don't have a good pneumonic for carbol or methyloline. So, if you have one, please help all of my uh subscribers by putting that in the comment of this video. But back to our chart, we've now talked about the direct muscerinic agonists and let's conclude this video by talking about the indirect muscerinic agonist. So again, these are drugs that are acetylcholine eststerase inhibitors, meaning they inhibit the enzyme that normally breaks down acetylcholine, which makes more acetylcholine available, which means more parasympathetic effect, more muscerinic effect, more cholenomimetic effect. So what drugs are they? Neoigmine, pyrostigmine, fostigmine, revastigmine, donazil, galantamine, and hedrophonium. Now, this isn't the case for all of these medications, but just like there was coal in the name of the direct muscerinic agonist, these all have most of these have STI in the name, which is there to remind you that these are acetylcholine esters. Okay, I kind of fudged with the word a little bit, but the STI tells you that it's an acetylcholine eststerase inhibitor, right? The STI is stirase inhibitor. So these are acetylcholine eststerase inhibitors. Now let's talk about the four really high yield ones that you need to know for test day. I'm not going to go through all seven of these because they're not all that high yield, but four of them definitely are. Now those four are fasoigmine which is used in atropene overdose. It's also used in belladana alkaloid poisoning which is known as deadly nightshade. So I I I feel like this was in some Shakespeare play. you know, someone eats deadly nightshade and then well, too bad they didn't have fostigamine back then, but that's what it's used for. So, just like atropene was used to treatic overdose orurgic poisoning, fiso stigmine is used to treat atropene overdose or antiolinergic poisoning and also belladona alkyoid that I think deadly nightshade is a plant. I'm not sure but um back in the day when people used to eat that or poison people with it if they had fo stigmine around they could have treated it. Now the way that you can remember this is that fostigma fo stigmine helps treat the physical symptoms of atropene overdose and fizz reminds me fzostigmine. Um the next one that you need to know is pyrostigmine. This is used to treat mythenia gravis. And the way that you can remember this is that this drug gets rid of meiosthenia gravis for pyid ostigmine. You should also know about edrophonium. Edrophonium is used in the diagnosis of mythenia gravis. Um no good pneumonic here. So if you have one drop it in the comment section. And then lastly donpazil. This is used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. And the way that I remember this is that his memory is done done for done epazil. Um because this is a a acetylcholine eststerase inhibitor when you increase the amount of acetylcholine you're allowing more acetylcholine to agonize those M1 M4 M5 receptors in the central nervous system that creates procognitive effects which helps the cognitive decline in Alzheimer's. But this is your summary chart. This is what you should take away as far as knowing the pharmarmacology in the parasympathetic subsection of the autonomic nervous system. This video was a lot of information and I I I recognize that and I understand that you might have to watch this a couple times before you're really comfortable with it. But what I will leave you with if I can just tell you how to approach this material is not necessarily to memorize the individual agents but start by really understanding the physiology the different types of M1, M2, M3, M4, M5 receptors and what happens when you stimulate or inhibit each of those receptors. And as you build this framework and you understand the opposing actions between the parasympathetic and the sympathetic nervous system, this will start to make a lot better sense. So if you want to dominate this on test day, this is a this is a topic where understanding is much more important than memorization. So please do that. Do not just memorize this. You need to understand this pharmarmacology. I hope that this video was useful to you. This was a long one, a lot of information. Let me know in the comments section what you'd like to see next. Best of luck.