In this video, I'm going to be talking about the basil ganglia pathways, specifically the difference between the direct and the indirect pathway. Now, let's get into today's video. Again, it's on the basil ganglia. And specifically, we're going to be differentiating the two pathways, the direct pathway and the indirect pathway. And this is a really challenging topic for a lot of medical students because each of these two pathways has a lot of distinct parts to it. And you need to know you know certain things in each pathway. So what's the anatomical structure in the brain? Is the pathway subcomponent excitatory or inhibitory etc etc. And before we get into those nitty-gritty details that you absolutely need to know I think we should just begin with a little bit of an overview about what the basil ganglia is. So the basil ganglia is actually a collection of interconnected structures. Like you don't look at the brain and say oh that's the basil ganglia. really it's a group of subcortical interconnected structures and you know neuroanatomy is really complex for a lot of medical students because people just don't take the time to look at the words and understand the terminology being used here but when something is subcortical it means below the cortex. So if you look at the brain, the outer kind of peripheral part of the brain, the meat if you will, that's all cortical, that's all cortex, right? Frontal cortex, parietal cortex, temporal cortex, etc. So anything deep to that is subcortical and that's what we're talking about with the structures that comprise the basil ganglia. Now specifically those structures include the codate the pututaman which together the codate and the putaman are the strriatam the globus paladus which has two subcomponents the globus paladus internis and the globus paladus externis the subthalamic nucleus and the substantia Okay so all of these parts together make up the basil ganglia. So these are all subcortical neuroanatomical parts of the brain that together comprise the basil ganglia. Now the overall effect of the basil ganglia is to coordinate movement and it uses both excitatory and inhibitory inter neurons to connect these structures. And as a general rule of thumb any neuron that is that uses glutamate is going to be excitatory and any neuron that uses GABA is going to be inhibitory. This is a really big high yield concept for you to understand not only for USML and complex but moving forward in your medical career. Glutamate excitation GABA inhibition just memorize it and that's really what you need to know. So when I when I reference the inter neurons in these pathways in this video specifically if it's a glutamate neuron it will be shown in green which means it's exciting. It's excitatory. And if it's a GABA inter neuron, it will be shown in red, which means it's inhibiting because it's inhibitory. Now, the basil ganglia has two distinct pathways. There's the direct pathway and the indirect pathway. Each of these two pathways has two distinct goals. The direct pathway initiates movement and the indirect pathway terminates movement. Okay? And this will become a little bit more clear once we go through the pathway and I illustrate what's going on. Now, let's get started with the pathway. So you start with the motor cortex. So the motor cortex sends excitatory signals to the strriatam. Now remember the strriatam is the codate nucleus plus the putaman. Okay? But for the purposes of simplifying on the slide and in the video to help you memorize this I'm just going to write strriatam. So motor cortex sends excitatory neurons which again are glutamate shown in green to the striatum. And then the strriatam sends inhibitory neurons which are GABA shown in red to the globus paladus internis and the substantionigra. The substantionigra and the globus paladus internis send inhibitory neurons to the phalamus and the phalamus sends excitatory neurons back to the motor cortex. Now this loop everything you see here this is the direct pathway and the net effect again of the direct pathway is to turn on the motor cortex and really what's happening here is you're disinhibiting theamic control of motor planning. So again the basil ganglia's role is the coordination of movement. It coordinates movement. It plans motor movement. It it's as if you're assigning purpose to the movement of the body. Now, in order for the brain to do this, the phalamus, which is the sensory integration center of the brain, has to communicate with the motor cortex of the brain because the motor cortex is what's responsible for taking different signals and yielding motor output. And it's through this loop that the direct pathway initiates movement. Okay? So, everything that you see on this slide is direct pathway. Now let's pivot for a second and talk about the indirect pathway and then we'll come back and we'll compare and point out all the high yields that you should remember. So the indirect pathway starts with the motor cortex at the top of the slide and just like the direct pathway it too starts with sending excitatory signals to the strriatam and this is where the pathways differ. So the indirect pathway the stratum then sends inhibitory inter neurons to the globus paladus externus. So you can see in the flowchart if you will that we've now pivoted into the direct indirect pathway. The globus paladus externus will send inhibitory interurons to the subthalamic nucleus and then the subthalamic nucleus will send excitatory interurons back to the globus paladus internis and the substantionigra. And at this point the indirect pathway kind of takes a turn and comes back and finishes out the exact same way as the direct pathway which is to say that the globus paladus internis and the substantionigra send inhibitory signals to the phalamus and then the phalamus sends excitatory signals to the motor cortex. So the left side of this flowchart is direct pathway which we already talked about and the right side of this pathway is the indirect pathway and the net effect of the indirect pathway is to turn off the motor cortex. Okay? So you're activating the inhibition pathway if you will. Now this can be a little confusing for some people. So I really want you to hone in on what the two differences are clinically and functionally in these pathways. And really what you need to to understand and look at is the substantia The substantia nigra's role chiefly is to inhibit movement. So normally the substantia inhibits the phalamus which would normally excite the motor cortex. So if you're inhibiting the phalamus and therefore the phalamus cannot excite the motor cortex, you don't get planned movement in the direct pathway. What you'll notice is that the striatam turns off the substantionigra which is where you see the pink plus sign next to the red arrow going from the striatam down to the substantionigra. This in the direct pathway is disinhibition right because you're inhibiting the thing the substantionigra that normally inhibits motor planning. So in the direct pathway, it would be correct to say that the the direct pathway disinhibits theamic control of motor planning because you're turning off the thing that causes inhibition. Okay? You're turning off the substantionigra which normally causes inhibition. Now compare that to the indirect pathway. In the indirect pathway, the subthalamic nucleus is sending excitatory neurons to the substantionigra. So it's turning on the substantionigra which means it's turning on the thing that causes inhibition. Okay. So when you turn on something that inhibits the overall effect is inhibitory. But when you turn off something that inhibits as is the case in the direct pathway the overall effect is excitatory. So as you can see the reason that the direct pathway causes activation of motor planning and the reason that the indirect pathway causes inhibition of motor planning is totally dependent on whether you're turning on or turning off the substantia So the really key nuance in these pathways happens right here where those pink plus signs are. What happens to the substantia niagra? And this is what you really need to understand on a deep level, especially in the first two years of medical school when you're taking your exams, but also for USML and complex. So, those are the differences. And I know what you're thinking. You're saying to yourself, "Wow, dirty. How the heck am I going to remember the order of these structures and what's going on?" And the answer is pretty simple. You're going to use my awesome pneumonic. So, here's what you do. You write MSIT, right? MSIT. M for motor cortex, S for strriatam, I for internus, right? Globus paladus internis and T for phalamus. Okay, that's what you write for both direct and indirect. And there's one difference between these. In the indirect pathway, you add in the middle. Okay, so it's still MSIT, but in the very middle, smack middle between the S and the I, you add in because the indirect pathway adds N. And this reminds you that in the indirect pathway you're also adding the externus right globus palus exteris and the nucleus or the subthalamic nucleus. So if you remember msit for direct and indirect and add the n for the indirect pathway you'll always be able to remember what the order of these structures are. Again, just to hammer this home, motor cortex, strriatam, globus paladus internis and phalamus. And then in the indirect pathway, you add in which is globus paladus exteris and the nucleus or the subthalamic nucleus. So write this out on a piece of paper a couple times so that your brain remembers what this looks like. But msit MST and then add in for the indirect pathway. And this is how you're going to remember the order of these pathways. So here we go. We've got MST for direct and M MSIT with N for the indirect pathway. And now you need to know which one sends excitatory signals, which one sends inhibitory signals. Because remember, half of the battle in memorizing this pathway is understanding if there's glutamate involved and it's an excitatory signal or if there's GABA involved and it's an inhibitory signal. And the way that you do this is it's pretty simple. The first and last part of the pathway is excitatory. The part in the middle is inhibitory. And it's the same between the direct pathway and the indirect pathway. So you see direct on the left and now look at indirect on the right. So the M, the S, the I, and the T, it's the same, right? First and last is excitatory. The two middle parts, the S and the I are inhibitory. The only difference now is the N in indirect pathway. And indirect pathway, just memorize that. The first part, the E, that's inhibitory. And the second part, the N, that's excitatory. So what what should you memorize like what's the pneumonic here? Remember that first and last are excitatory. Everything in the middle is inhibitory except for the subthalamic nucleus, right? The the the subthalamic nucleus will be excitatory. So this is what I used to remember back in the day when I was a medical student and this is very sufficient to answer all of these questions correctly. But that's it for today's video. I hope that this was helpful for you. The basil ganglia pathways are very very important, very high yield. And quite frankly, it's impressive if you're able to talk about this stuff as if you know what's going on.