In this video, we're going to be talking about Billy Rubin and congenital hyperbilly rubmia. So, in today's video, we're going to be talking about Billy Rubin and as sort of an overview of what we're going to be going through. This is what this video is going to touch on. So, we'll start by talking about Billy Rubin physiology and then we'll talk about what is the difference exactly between unconjugated and conjugated Billy Rubin. And we'll conclude the video by talking about the different types of diseases that I'm sure you've seen in your textbooks and in your question banks that come up when you have congenital hyperbilly rubmia. And those diseases are Gilber syndrome, criggler nar syndrome, type one and type two, Duben Johnson syndrome, and rotor syndrome. But it's probably asking too much of you to simply memorize different diseases if you don't understand how Billy Rubin works physiologically. So, where I want to start in today's video is let's break down how Billy Rubin works and what it does and how it moves from one area of the body to the other. Because once you understand that physiology, understanding the diseases that occur congenitally when those different aspects of normal physiology don't work becomes very simple. So, let's just start by talking about Billy Rubin. So, we're going to start with a blood vessel. And in the blood vessel you have heem. Everybody should be familiar with what he is before starting this lecture. And through two different enzymes, he will ultimately be converted to Billy Rubin. And when he gets converted to Billy Rubin, we're talking about unconjugated Billy Rubin. If you want to, we're going to talk about unconjugated versus conjugated in just a bit. But to start conjugation is a step where there is a chemical alteration of Billy Rubin where a little molecule gets stuck onto Billy Rubin and that occurs downstream. So at this point we're just talking merely about unconjugated Billy Rubin. So he will go to Billy Rubin through two enzymes. The first enzyme is hem oxygenase and then the second enzyme is Billy Veritin reductase. So technically although it's not pictured on this slide there is an intermediate product between the first and second arrow and that's Billy Verden. So he gets converted to Billy Verden by hem oxygenase and then Billy Verden gets converted to Billy Rubin through Billy Verden reductase. Now everything that I've just mentioned I want you to imagine as happening in the reticuloendothelial system. So everything in that gray box including the enzymes that we just mentioned that's all occurring in the reticulo endothelial system. So now we've got Billy Rubin and at this point it's still unconjugated. Okay, it has not undergone an alteration which will occur downstream of this in the liver by attaching a molecule to it. Now the Billy Rubin is going to flow through the body attached to albumin. And this is really important because if you get a question that puts a patient in some disease state where they have decreased levels of albumin that can you know indirectly affect the the availability of circulating unconjugated Billy Rubin. But at this point again Billy Rubin is just circulating bound to albumin and ultimately that Billy Rubin which is still unconjugated at this point will make its way into the liver. Now, let me be clear. Everything that we've talked about so far, which I'm going to show you now by highlighting all the different Billy Rubin in blue, this is all unconjugated Billy Rubin because again, just to really harp on this because it's so important, the Billy Rubin has not yet been modified in the liver. And it's that chemical modification that's going to occur shortly that's ultimately going to conjugate it. So, at this point, we're Rubin. So now the Billy Rubin has arrived in the liver and now we can finally get to that step where the Billy Rubin will become conjugated. When you conjugate Billy Rubin, what you're doing is you're converting unconjugated Billy Rubin into Billy Rubin with glucuronic acid attached to it. And the enzyme that does Billy Rubin conjugation is UDP glucuronal transferase. Okay, so that is a very important enzyme to memorize because it conjugates unconjugated Billy Rubin. Now once Billy Rubin is conjugated again all it the only difference is that it has glucaronic acid attached to it and it's that chemical attachment that allows conjugated Billy Rubin to then move further through this cycle. So once conjugated Billy Rubin is conjugated and that is to say that it has glucaronic acid now it can be secreted into the biliary system and once that billy rubin gets secreted into the biliary system it will go through the biliary system and of course spill into the intestine. Okay. So now Billy Rubin which is conjugated and it has its glucuronic acid attached to it has made its way to the intestine where certain modifications are going to occur squarely in the intestine. So the first one is that billy rubin will be converted to eurobalinogen and it's actually the bacteria in the GI tract that makes that conversion possible. Now eurobalinogen takes one of three different steps. Okay. And I've shown the three different steps by having three different colored arrows here. The purple arrow, the yellowish arrow, and the brown arrow. The first option shown in purple is that that eurobalinogen can simply be reabsorbed and then you can go through this cycle and just keep cycling Billy Rubin. The other option shown in yellow is that that eurobalinogen can make its way to the kidney and ultimately be converted into eurobylin. And it's eurobylin that is a yellow pigmented chemical which gives urine its yellow color. The other option is that eurobalinogen can go can continue through the colon and ultimately be converted to stircoin and sturcobin is also a pigmented billy rubin derivative that is brown and that's what gives poop the brown color. So it's really interesting that when you look at somebody's urine or you look at somebody's poop, the reason that urine is yellow and the reason that poop is brown is because of the Billy Rubin derivative eurobalinogen getting converted into either eurobiin or stircoin and in both of those cases they are pigmented chemicals. So interestingly it's Billy Rubin that gives your poo and your pee its color. So, this is everything we've talked about. And just to simplify this, I'm going to now make everything black so you can see this overview. And I want to really delineate what the difference is between the unconjugated and conjugated Billy Rubin. So, your unconjugated steps are shown in blue and your conjugated steps are shown in red. So, this is what happens with with Billy Rubin. And if you understand this pathway and you're understanding how Billy Rubin comes from he flows through the blood goes to the liver gets conjugated and then enters the biliary and ultimately the intestinal system. You should be able to understand where congenital hyperbilly rubmia is coming from. So that's Billy Rubin and that's unconjugated versus conjugated. Now let's transition and talk about the high yield diseases that you'll get tested on on test day. This whole group of diseases is referred to as congenital hyperbilly rubanmia, which basically means that from the time that you're born, there's something wrong in the in the physiology that we just talked about that causes you to have too much Billy Rubin in your system. Congenital hyperbilly rubmias are classically uh described as either being unconjugated or conjugated which which is to say that if you have an unconjugated congenital hyperbilly rubmia it's a disease where there's too much unconjugated Billy Rubin and likewise if you have a conjugated congenital hyperbilly rubmia you you have a disease where there's too much conjugated Billy Rubin. So let's first talk about the unconjugated side. And before we even talk about the diseases, recall from the previous discussion that we just had about the physiology that this is where the unconjugated steps of Billy Rubin come from. So in order for there to be an unconjugated congenital hyperbilly rubmia which is to say that there's a disease somewhere in this pathway causing too much unconjugated Billy Rubin the problems occur at the areas where you see the two red stars. So either the problem is initially with the heem accumulation or the problem is with the enzyme UDP glucuron transferase. Now let's briefly talk about heem first because this is the probably the lowest yield part of today's lecture. If you have a disease where you undergo way too much hemolysis, you're going to have the generation of a lot of heem because that's a breakdown product from the red blood cell. And if there's all this heem coming into the system and all of that heem is going to be converted into Billy Rubin, well then of course you're going to have too much unconjugated Billy Rubin because you're converting heem which is just accumulating in these massive quantities because your red blood cells are being hemolyed and then you've got all that unconjugated Billy Rubin that the body just doesn't know what to do with it. So that can cause an elevation in unconjugated hyper excuse me unconjugated Billy Rubin. The other problem is with the enzyme UDP glucuronal transferase because if you either have a deficiency of or a complete knockout of that enzyme as you can see on this slide you're not going to be able to convert the unconjugated Billy Rubin in the liver to the conjugated form because the enzyme that's responsible for that reaction is is not working properly and that is the highest yield part of the unconjugated hyperbilly ribbonas. So let's talk about the three diseases that are that are unconjugated. So you've got Gilbert syndrome and Criggler Najar syndrome type one and Criggler NAR syndrome type two. Let's just go through them one at a time. So we'll start with Gilber syndrome. So the problem here is that you have a knockout of the gene that is UGT1A1 and that gene is responsible for basically coding for that enzyme. And if you have a problem with the gene that codes for the enzyme then you have decreased or dysfunctional levels of UDP glucuronal transferase which means you have increased levels of unconjugated sometimes referred to as indirect Billy Rubin. So remember here's the slide that we've seen already. So if you take out the gene that codes for the enzyme UDP glucaronyl transferase then that enzyme is gone which means you have increased levels of the unconjugated Billy Rubin because it cannot be conjugated into the form of Billy Rubin that gets the glucaronic acid attached to it. So that's the problem with Gilbert syndrome. Now how do you remember this? Right? That's quite a bit of information. Well what I say is UGT which reminds me of a few things. one UGT for unconjugated Gilbert T. Okay, so the U, the G and the T reminds me that Gilbert syndrome is an unconjugated elevation of Billy Rubin. UGT also is directly taken from the name of the gene knockout and UGT reminds me of UDP glucaron transferase. So Gilber is UGT and there's only one of these diseases with a G in the name and that's Gilbert. So pretty easy to remember. That's Gilbert syndrome. The other two unconjugated congenital hyperbilly rubmias are the two different types of criggler nar syndrome. And I think for the sake of studying it's probably best if we just include this discussion on the same slide so that you can see the differences between type one and type two. So for type one criogar the problem is that you have a complete dysfunction of UDP glucoronal transferase. So a knockout basically the enzyme just simply isn't there. So you're going to have very elevated levels of indirect or unconjugated Billy Rubin. The problem with type two criggler jar is that you don't fully knock out the enzyme but you have a deficiency of the enzyme. Okay. So the enzyme activity is decreased but it's still there a little bit and because of that you're going to get an increase in your unconjugated or indirect Billy Rubin but it's not going to be as high of a level that you see in type one criular jar where you simply have no enzyme whatsoever. Okay so let's go back to this slide remember if you knock out that enzyme UDP glucaronal transferase then you have increasing levels of unconjugated Billy Rubin. If you only have a little deficiency of that enzyme, you're still going to get an elevation of unconjugated Billy Rubin, but it's not going to be as much. So that's type one versus type two. Now, something that's really important to understand is that because you have massively increased levels of indirect Billy Rubin in type one, these patients are prone to getting kernicus, whereas patients who have type two crillinog are not going to get kernicus. And if you've never heard about kernictorus before, basically it's when all of this Billy Rubin accumulates in the bloodstream and that goes up to the brain and becomes neurotoxic. So you might see something like this, a CAT scan of the brain which shows a Billy Rubin encphylopathy with neurotoxic lesions in the basil ganglia. So Billy Rubin is neurotoxic. If it goes up to the brain, it's going to cause lots of issues and it can be fatal very quickly. So these patients who have criar syndrome type one are not going to do well. The other thing that you need to know is that type one criular nagar syndrome will not respond to pheninoarbatital but type two crillar syndrome will. Basically pheninoarbatital is a barbiterate medication that can be given to decrease levels of unconjugated billy rubin but only patients with type 2 crillinogar syndrome will have any response to that. So on test day, if you're taking your test and you see a question and they give you a patient who was treated with phenobarbatal and that Billy Rubin level came down, that tells you immediately that they must they can't have type 1 cigar syndrome because those patients simply don't respond. My pneumonic for remembering that patients with type two criular syndrome respond to phenobarbatital is I say phenobarbat 2. So instead of pheninoarbatital I say phenobarba 2 which reminds me that pheninoarb patients with type two respond to it. So those are your criular nar syndrome. So at this point in the lecture we've talked about Billy Rubin physiology and how Billy Rubin works in the body normally. We've talked about the difference between unconjugated Billy Rubin without the glucaronic acid and conjugated Billy Rubin with the glucaronic acid. what those differences are and we just had a discussion about the three different types of unconjugated hyperbilly rubmas. Now let's wrap up by switching gears and talking about the other side of this chart the conjugated congenital hyperbilly rubmas. So remember that what we talked about the difference between unconjugated and conjugated. This is the slide that we were we were on and the problem in conjugated hyperbilly rubmas is where the pink star is located. So it's a problem with getting the conjugated Billy Rubin basically out of the liver and into the bilary system because as you might imagine if you have difficulty moving that conjugated Billy Rubin around you're going to have increased levels of it. The two diseases where that happens are Duben Johnson syndrome and rotor syndrome. So these are the two that you need to know on the conjugated side. Let's start by talking about Duben Johnson syndrome. So the the pathophysiology here is that the MRP2 protein is dysfunctional and the MRP the MRP2 protein is basically responsible for the hpatic excretion of conjugated Billy Rubin. So if that protein is missing or is not working then you're not going to be able to get conjugated Billy Rubin out of the liver. And when that happens, as you see on this slide where the pink star is located, if that billy rubin with the glucaronic acid attached to it can't leave the liver, then you have increased levels of conjugated Billy Rubin as you see on this slide. So you knock out the ability to shuttle that conjugated Billy Rubin out of the liver and you get increased levels of the conjugated Billy Rubin that has the glucaronic acid attached to it. Now, interestingly in Duben Johnson syndrome, one of the very high yield features is that patients will have a black liver. They will have a black liver and that's due to the accumulation of a pigment in the liver due to the inability to get that conjugated Billy Rubin out of the liver. So, if you see this picture on your exam, they're talking about Duben Johnson syndrome. The other really high yield bit of information that you need to know is that in these patients with Duben Johnson syndrome, oral contraception is actually contraindicated. The reason for that is that the MRP2 protein which is obviously dysfunctional in Duben Johnson syndrome. Well, that protein is also involved in the metabolism of estrogen and progesterone. So if you give somebody oral contraception and they can't metabolize properly the estrogen or the progesterone in the oral contraception, they can become toxic quite quickly. So that's very high yield. Do not give these patients oral contraception because oral contraception also relies on the MRP2 protein. So that's Duben Johnson syndrome. And Rotor syndrome is pretty similar. Rotor syndrome, the problem is that you have two different polyeptides that are defective. You have the OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. They're both defective. Those are similarly responsible for the uptake and excretion of conjugated Billy Rubin from the liver. So just like Duban Johnson syndrome, if you have a problem getting that conjugated Billy Rubin out of the liver because you can't excrete it, you're going to have an elevation in the conjugated Billy Ribbon because since it can't get out, it's just sitting around. Really the way to differentiate Rotor syndrome from Duben Johnson syndrome at least clinically is that there's no black liver in Rotor syndrome. But in Duben Johnson syndrome you do see that black liver. So for some reason test writers love to go after this. They'll give you all the lab printouts that will suggest to you that conjugated Billy Rubin is elevated and in your head you're now generating a differential. This is either Duben Johnson syndrome or rotor syndrome. And if they don't tell you anything about the pathophysiology, which is to say they don't tell you if it's OATP1 or MRP2, whatever, the only difference is that one has a black liver grossly when you look at the liver and one doesn't. So test writers will go after that. Just like in Duben Johnson syndrome, in rotor syndrome, oral contraception is contraindicated. Okay? because OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 are also involved in the metabolism of estrogen and progesterone. So how do you remember this? Well, I say rotor syndrome and I replace the O with oat rotor syndrome and that reminds me of OAT for OAT uh P1B1 and OATP1B3. That's rotor syndrome. So again, very high yield. Duben Johnson and Rotor syndrome both cause increased levels of conjugated Billy Rubin, but only Duben Johnson syndrome has the black liver. Test writers go after this all the freaking time. You have to memorize this. Now, I know what you're thinking. Dirty. If I have to memorize this, if this is as high yield as you claim it to be, what's your pneumonic? Well, when I think of Duben Johnson, I think of Dwayne Johnson. Dwayne Johnson, arguably the greatest wrestler of all time, Dwayne the Rock Johnson, is part black. And that reminds me that in Duben Johnson or in Dwayne Johnson, you get a black liver. Finally, the Rock has come back to dirty medicine. That's it, guys. I hope that you enjoyed this video. I hope that now you have a better understanding of how Billy Rubin works, what the difference is between conjugated and unconjugated, and what those diseases actually mean. I think that I did a good job of breaking this down, but if you have any further questions, do not hesitate to put a comment on this video and support the channel. Love you. Good luck.