medical students really hate studying bone tumors. I think this is because there's a lot to know about the different tumors and a lot of them have different radiographic findings. A lot of them occur in different age ranges, occur in different parts of the bone. And keeping all of that information straight in your brain is pretty difficult considering we have very limited brain space available to memorize. But my goal in today's video is to simplify all of that for you. So, this video is going to be somewhat quick relative to the topic at hand, but I want to reassure you that I'm only telling you what you need to know and not an ounce of information more. So, if you want a more complete look at this information, certainly there are resources out there that you can study. But if you're just trying to get what you need to know to sit for USML or complex knowing the most basic but yet high yield information, this is the video for you. So when we talk about bone tumors, it would make sense if we conceptualize bone tumors into benign tumors which will be shown on the left side of this slide in red and malignant tumors which will be shown on the the right side of this slide in blue. Benign tumors will include osteocondroma, osteoma, osteoid osteoma, osteoblastto and giant cell tumors. The malignant tumors will there's only three of them and they will include osteio saroma, condondro saroma and euing saroma. Now part of the reason that medical students get so overwhelmed in this topic is because if you're looking at this slide you'll probably notice that a lot of these things sound the same. A lot of them have osteo in the name. A lot of them have in the name. And remembering which one does what is part of the confusing problem. So, where relevant and where applicable, I'm going to point out what certain words mean in terms of the prefix or the suffix so that you can get an appreciation for the language that we're talking about. So, let's just dive in. We're going to start with the benign tumors. We're going to start with osteocondroma. Osteocchondroma occurs in males, usually less than 25 years old, and it will be located in the metaphysis. The the really important thing that you need to know about osteocchondroas is that they're the most common benign bone tumor. The most common that's a very important epi epidemiological question. They are the most common. They feature what's termed lateral projective growth. So you look in the image here, you see where that red arrow is pointing. Osteocchondroas are these little lateral buds off of the metaphysis. And what what you'll notice is that if it's described to you in a vignette, it will have either lateral growth or some type of butdding off described in the question. And these little buds are covered by a cartilagynous cap as you might expect because conquals cartilage. So osteocondroma, the con means cartilage. Now I want you to look at the word because if you break down the word, it makes perfect sense what we're dealing with here. Osteo means bone, con means cartilage, and om means swelling or mass. So we're talking about a bony cartilagynous mass. And should make sense. You've got a lateral projection growth which is covered by a cap occurring in the bone. So the name osteocondroma should make perfect sense to you. But if you're going to take one thing away from osteocchondroas, again, it's that you need to know they're the most common benign bone tumor. And because of that, my pneumonic to remember osteocchondroma is osteoccomandroma because you need to know it's the most common benign tumor. Let's move on to the osteoma. The osteoma occurs in middle age and it's usually found in facial bones. It has a high yield association that you need to know. It's associated with gardener syndrome. Gardener syndrome and we'll we'll touch on this in just a second. It features obstruction of the osteium. So some people will present with osteomas with like a sinocitis type picture, a sinus headache or sinus pressure in the face in the facial bones and that's due to the tumor's obstruction locally of the osteium. Now my pneumonic for remembering osteomas is osteom in the garden. So I imagine somebody meditating in their garden and the reason I do this is because gardener syndrome is the hyod association with osteomas. So, if you recall, Gardner syndrome is a whole spectrum of different tumor growths. And one of those tumors that you've probably seen in your list of tumors that Gardner syndrome causes is bony tumors. And this is the bony tumor that it causes. It causes the osteom. So, think about somebody meditating and going in their garden. So, osteom in the garden. That reminds you that osteomomas are associated with gardener syndrome. So, very very high yield association. Please know that. So, if we look at our flowchart, we've done two of the benign tumors already. We're cruising. You guys are learning, you know, high yield information. Let's move on to the osteoid osteoma. So, this this is confusing because it sounds like an osteoma. We're just planting the word osteoid in front of it. Osteoid osteomas are found in males, usually younger than 25 years old. And the location of those tumors will be in the cortex of long bones. The findings and what's really important to know about osteoid osteomomas are that you have nighttime bony pain and this is in fact pain that's relieved by NSAIDs and that's going to be very very high yield when we differentiate that as compared to osteoblasto. Now what you'll see on a radioraph is a bony mass with a radolucent core. And what that's going to look like is this. So it's sort of this little bubbly thing. It's like a punched out radolucent core. and you'll see that little teeny circle and that will tell you that you're looking at an osteoid osteoma. Now, let's compare and contrast the osteoid osteoma with something that's incredibly similar to it, the osteoblast. So, luckily, these are going to be identical, right? The osteoblasto is also found in males less than 25. It's found in the vertebrae. It has nighttime bony pain. It has a bony mass with a radolucent core. So, it's going to look exactly like the osteoid osteoma. The only difference is that this is not relieved by NSAIDs. So the pain that comes with osteoblasto is not relieved by NSAIDs. So again the high yield information to take away from this discussion is that when we compare osteoid osteoma to osteoblastto because they'll present similarly because they look pretty much the same radiographically. The one major difference is that osteoid osteoma is pain relieved with NSAIDs and osteoblasto is not. So my pneumonic for remembering this is oh that feels better. O for osteoid osteoma which tells you that that pain is relieved by NSAIDs. And for osteoblasto you get blasted with pain because that pain cannot be relieved by NSAIDs. That's the high yield difference here. Make sure you understand it. So we've now touched on four of the six benign bone tumors we are cruising. You're learning high yield information. Let's talk about condro. So luckily for condroas you really only need to know the location. A condroma is found in the medulla of small bones usually the hands or the feet. Don't worry about anything else. This is not a particularly high yield bone tumor but I'm putting it here for completeness sake. What you do need to know which is a very high yield bone tumor is the last benign bone tumor and that's your giant cell tumor. So the giant cell tumor occurs in roughly 20 to 40 year olds. It's found in the epiphosis of long bones. It's very prominent around the knee area. Now the findings are what make giant cell tumors very very high yield. So you've got these quote giant cells and that's where the tumor gets its name from. And the giant cells arise from the bone marrow. This type of tumor causes significant pathological fractures. The two really really high yield things to take away from this are the soap bubble appearance on the X-ray as well as the pathophysiology here and that's the monuclear rank L expressing cells. So let's first talk about this whole rank L business because it's really important to understand this. You've got osteoblasts and on the osteoblast you have a rank lian which is called rank L and what rank lian does is it looks for rank and it binds to rank and what that happens to be on is rank happens to be on osteoclass. So literally your osteoblast will approach the osteoclass the rank liand will bind to rank and when that happens you get activation of osteoclass which is part of the pathology here in a giant cell tumor. So you've got these monuclear rank l expressing cells which causes pathological tumor growth. Now the soap bubble appearance is what you see on this slide. That's very very high yield. As you've probably seen already today these x-rays all look different. So on USML on complex you can simply be given an X-ray told that the patient has bone pain and you'll have to figure out which tumor it is based on the image. So this is a giant cell tumor and has what's called a soap bubble appearance. My pneumonic for remembering this is don't drop the soap or else you'll get a giant surprise. Enough said. So that's all of the benign bone tumors. I hope that you guys feel comfortable with them. I tried to differentiate the very high yield informations. compare and contrast where appropriate, but they're not terrible to memorize. You just really need to know the one or two really high yield facts from each of those tumors because that is the material that will get tested quite often. Let's switch gears and talk about the malignant tumors. So, luckily there's only three that you need to know. So, it's not that much information. Osteocaroma is our first malignant tumor. This classically occurs in young teenage males. It may also be seen later in life in the elderly, but that is less common. The location of the osteio saroma is the metaphysis of long bones and there are certain risk factors for osteio saroma. They include retinol blasto padet disease leaf ramani syndrome which I didn't include on this slide but I believe I did in a couple slides from now and radiation. The highest yield thing to take away from osteioaroma there's there's technically two. One remember the genetic association with retinol blasto. It's kind of random because retinol blasto you classically think about as an eye tumor but it's associated with the bone tumor of osteocaroma. So that's very very high yield. The second thing is that sunburst appearance. So again I'm going to repeat myself because it's very important. Radiographic images of these bones are the highest yield thing of this entire lecture. So know what it looks like. And this is what a sunburst appearance looks like. I don't know that I would call it a sunburst pattern, but that's how it's described. So if you see this, this is osteocaroma. It features this sunburst appearance and lifting of the perryioium if you were to inspect the bone uh under a microscope. But this is what you need to know. And there you have it. I did write leaf from Annie syndrome on this slide. But know the association with retinol blast. Know the description of sunburst appearance. My pneumonic for remembering that is instead of saying osteio saroma I say osteio suckoma on a starburst. So starburst candy reminds me of the sunburst appearance. Starburst sunburst pretty much the same thing. And osteio you suck on a starburst. You know it's very juicy and flavorful. Um osteiocom reminds me of osteio saroma. So I remember which tumor has the burst appearance or the sunburst appearance. So that's osteio saroma. Just remember the appearance again. Um and remember the association with retinol blasto condro saroma. Condro saroma really not a lot to know here. It's another for whatever reason the ones with cond in the name are just lower yield. Just know the location. It occurs in the medulla of the pelvis and the central skeleton. Don't worry about any associated findings or any associated epidemiology. That's it. The last tumor we need to talk about is the highest yield malignant tumor and that is the Euing saroma. So euing saroma will occur in white boys usually in their teenage years younger than 15 years of age. It occurs in the diaphosis of long bones. Okay. Now the really high yield part about euing saroma is what you see here under findings. So one on an X-ray it has an onion skin appearance and I'll show you an image in just a second. Hisytologically you're going to see neuroectomal originating small blue cells that resemble lymphosytes. That's a mouthful, but that's the phrasing that will be given to you. So, it's going to be small blue cells resembling lymphosytes that are neuroctoadermal in origin. And the highest yield thing of this entire discussion is the transllocation. It's between 11 and 22. And it leads to overexpression of EWS LI1. Now, you don't really need to know exactly what EWS FLI1 does or what it's responsible for, but just know that it's overexpression in that 1122 transllocation is what causes tumor growth. It's obviously not a normal cellular process, and that's what gives rise to euing saroma. So, let's look at the onion skin appearance. This is what it looks like. Again, I wouldn't say that this looks like any this doesn't look like an onion to me at all, but nonetheless, Euing Saroma has the onion skin appearance. Very, very high yield. Now, how do you remember the transllocation 1122? Well, Euing Saroma should remind you of the famous basketball player Patrick Euing. And Patrick's Patrick Euing's jersey number was 33. And when you add 1122, which is the transllocation, you get 33. So maybe this isn't so useful to you if you're not a sports fan, if you're not an American basketball fan, but nonetheless, this is the easiest way to memorize this. So just remember Patrick Euing was 33. 11 + 22 equals 33. And finally, my pneumonic for remembering the onion skin appearance. You want to say, "Ew, an onion." You know when you cut an onion and it has that very strong smell, it makes you cry. Um, some people don't like the smell and they describe it as unpleasant. Just say, "Ew, an onion." And oo reminds you of ooing saroma and onion reminds you of onion skinned appearance. That's it guys and girls. I know that I flew through this but again my goal is to give you just what you need to know and nothing more so that if you want to chalk up or punt the bone tumors and just know the information contained in this video, you'll be well prepared to tackle the majority of of questions on USML and complex. Best of luck.