 Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz Gonz separated into superficial and deep. So while there are four types of burns, there are five different categories of burns that you need to know. When you're taking exams or when you're getting pimped by your attendings, what you need to know is what tissue layer is affected by the different burns, whether there will be pain, whether the skin will blanch, which means when pressure is applied, does it turn white, what clinical findings you will see, and then what the treatment or healing prognosis is for the burn. If you can understand all of this information and leave this video knowing what you see in this table, you will get 100% of your questions correct. So let's go through these burns one at a time, and then after I go through all of the burns, I'll give you my mnemonics and help you memorize what you need to know for test day. So with a first degree burn, it is considered a superficial burn. It is superficial because the tissue layer affected is only the epidermis. There is pain, there is blanching, the skin appears erythematous and dry, there is no scar formation, and healing will occur in approximately one week. So that is a first degree burn, sometimes called a superficial burn. Again, the term superficial describes the fact that a first degree burn only affects the epidermis, and because of this, the prognosis is pretty good. Healing within approximately one week and no scar formation. Now in a second degree superficial burn, you have superficial involvement and partial thickness involvement. The tissue layer affected here is what you get from a first degree burn, meaning epidermis, plus the papillary dermis. So we're now going a little bit deeper. We're still technically superficial, we're still partially thick, but we're affecting the epidermis plus one part of the dermis. In this case, the papillary dermis. There is still pain, there is still blanching, and what you'll note in a second degree superficial burn is that you get the formation of vesicles and bullae. So what differentiates this from first degree is that now we're involving that papillary dermis, and because we have deeper involvement, we get formation of vesicles and bullae. Now fortunately, just like first degree burns, second degree superficial burns do not have any scarring. However, because they have deeper involvement of the papillary dermis, healing takes a bit longer. So now we're looking at somewhere in the neighborhood of approximately one to three weeks. Now I want to pause for a second. When you're learning the different features and the details of these burns and learning how to differentiate them from one another, what you want to pay close attention to is at what depth or at what degree of burn do you have a change in a feature. And so we've gone through first degree and second degree superficial, and from first to second degree superficial, we still have pain, we still have blanching, we still have no scarring. So you don't need to memorize that this is the first burn where something new is happening in terms of pain, blanching, or scarring. What you do want to note is that you have for the first time the formation of vesicles and bullae in your second degree superficial burn. Now if we go a little bit deeper, second degree deep burns, this is still partial thickness, but we're even deeper now. So we have involvement of the epidermis, and now we're going a little bit deeper, and we're getting involvement of the reticular dermis. Now you still have pain, but what I would note here is that a second degree deep partial burn is the first burn where you lose blanching. And that's very important to know for exams. So second degree deep, we now have no blanching. And as we progress even deeper beyond this, we now lose blanching. So that's important. What you'll note is the presence of white and red patches, very, very high yield, white and red patches. Memorize that and associate it with second degree deep burns. The other thing to note, again, I'm pointing it out because it's important for exams. This is the first burn in terms of depth where we will have scar formation. So second degree deep burns, once you involve that reticular dermis, now we're going to deal with scarring. Fortunately, though, the burn can still heal. It just takes a lot longer than a second degree superficial or a first degree burn. And now we're looking at three plus weeks. So let's pause for a second and recap. Second degree deep, we're involving the reticular dermis. We still have pain. But what is new and novel in a second degree deep burn as we're moving down through our layers is that we don't have blanching. We get white and red patches. And this is the first burn where we will see scar formation. Now let's move on to a third degree burn. This is a full thickness burn and it is considered a deep burn. The tissue layer involved is what you get from a first and second degree burn, meaning epidermis plus papillary dermis plus reticular dermis. And we're adding on subcutaneous tissue, in this case, the hypodermis. Now what I will note is that in a third degree burn, this is where all of a sudden we lose pain. So third degree burns are painless. We have now had the addition or the finding of a new feature as we move down. Very, very important. Blanching will be absent and you will have the formation of what is known as leather-like skin. The skin is going to be necrotic and you're going to get eschar formation. And that's described as leather-like. The other thing I would note is that this is the first burn where the burn is not capable of healing. So starting at third degree and then moving deeper, the burn is now incapable of healing. So very, very high yield. Let's conclude with our fourth degree burn. So this is the deepest burn you can get. It is a full thickness burn. It involves all of the layers that we've talked about plus muscle, tendon, or bone. So epidermis plus papillary dermis plus reticular dermis plus hypodermis, which is subcutaneous, and some musculoskeletal, you know, muscle, bone, tendon. That is a full thickness, deepest, highest degree burn that you can possibly get. There is no pain like third degree. There is no blanching like third degree. You still have necrotic tissue with eschar formation and leather-like skin. And the only thing that is really noteworthy here for exams is that like third degree burns, there's no healing and fourth degree burns generally require amputation. So this is what you need to know about burns. And if you're sitting there and you're like, okay, I kind of understand, but that was a lot of information. How do I package this for USMLE and complex? Let me give you a mnemonic. So when you're taking exams where the test writer generally will go, is they're going to want you to differentiate second degree superficial versus second degree deep versus third degree? And I would say about 75% of your questions will probably be from those middle burn categories. The reason is fairly obvious. First degree burns are pretty understandable because they're first degree. They're superficial. Most people can guess that if it's just a first degree burn, it's going to be just epidermis. So there's not a lot of confusing information or details that the test writer will go after. Likewise, a fourth degree burn is your deepest and fullest thickness burn. So it's easy for med students to memorize, okay, this is going to involve muscle bone tendon and we're going to need to amputate. So the test writer, because sometimes they can be jerks, they want you to have to think. And where your brain will have to think the most is differentiating again, second degree superficial versus second degree deep versus third degree, because this is where you have the changing. Is it painful? Does it blanch? Does it heal? Is there a scar? And what is the finding? In other words, is there a vesicle? Is there a patch? Or is it a leather-like necrotic eschar? So because of that, we need mnemonics just for those middle burn categories. So when you memorize this, I want you to memorize PRF. In order, we're going to memorize PRF. P for second degree superficial, R for second degree deep, and F for third degree. What do these letters mean? Well, let's go in order. So P for second degree superficial, P for the papillary dermis, P for painful, P for partial, P for pustules, which reminds me of blisters, vesicles, bullae. Now, understandably, a pustule is technically different than a vesicle or a bullae, but it just kind of cues my brain that we're talking about something on the skin with fluid inside of it. And then P for properly heals, meaning there's no scar. It will properly heal. So P. Then we go a little bit deeper. The next letter is R. R for second degree deep, R for reticular dermis, R for the red and white patches, R for the remains of a scar, because this is the first burn where you have scar formation, and R for reduced blanching, because this is the first burn where you lose blanching. The next letter in my mnemonic was F. So we go one burn deeper. Now we're talking about third degree, F for full thickness, F for football. And you're like, whoa, football, what does that have to do with burns? That just reminds me of the leather-like skin because footballs are made of leather. Feel free to change this to any word that begins with F that is made of leather. In my brain, that's a football. F for feel nothing, because this is the first burn where it's painless. So we lose the ability to feel pain in the burn. And then F for forever, because this is the first burn where it does not heal. So now that you understand the different types of burns, we need to talk about how to calculate something called the total body surface area, or TBSA. When you're taking your exams, you're going to be given clinical vignettes that describe patients who have been burned on different areas of their body. And what the test writer will ask you is either what percentage of their total body surface area has been burned, in which case it's kind of just like a math problem, or what are the next steps in management? And some of those next steps in management depend on the TBSA that has been burned. And so the most accurate method for determining the total body surface area burned is what's known as the Lund-Browder chart. And basically what this is, is we look at the body and we break the body up into regions. This will differ, the percentages will differ depending on if the patient is an adult, a child, or an infant. And the most important thing to memorize for exams are the percentages in an adult. Now to be clear, yes, if you're taking your peds shelf, you're probably going to be asked a question or two about these percentages in a child or an infant. And I'm not saying that's not important to memorize. What I'm saying is that if you're about to take USMLE or Comlex, and you just want to know where the best return on investment is going to be in terms of memorizing something, I would focus just on the percentages in an adult. So I'll go through this and you'll see a table pop up on the slide on the right here in just a second. And I'll include for completeness sake, the corresponding percentages in a child and an infant. But I'm only going to verbalize those percentages in the adult. Because again, I think if you're just studying for exams, this is where you want to spend the most time. So let's start with the head. Now what you'll note, I want to point this out before we go any further. On the left, you see a percentage. On the right, you see the total body surface area. And so for example, in an adult, the total body surface area in the head is a total of 7%. But please understand that that's 3.5% on the front of the head and 3.5% on the back of the head for a total of 7% in the head as a whole. So obviously, my image on the left here, that's a two dimensional image, you're only seeing the front of the patient. So you see that the front of the head is 3.5% TBSA. But the head in total, if the test writer on your exam says that the patient's entire head was burned, that entire head is 7%. So the head is 7%. That's 3.5% on the front of the head, 3.5% on the back of the head. Let's do the trunk. The trunk in total is 26% total body surface area. That's 13% on the front of the trunk, plus 13% on the back of the trunk. And again, this is important to know, because on your exam, if the test writer really wants to get fancy, they'll say that the front of the trunk was burned, and the back of the head was burned. And now it's a little bit of a more complex math problem. Let's do arms and hands. So in total, front of two arms and front of two hands, plus back of two arms, plus back of two hands, that total is 19%. If you're just looking at the front of one arm plus hand, that'S4.75%. Because 4.75% on the front of one arm plus one hand, plus 4.75% of the other front of the arm and the hand is a total of 9.5% of just the front arms plus hands. And then of course, nine and a half for the fronts, plus nine and a half on the backs is a total of 19%. So in my opinion, arms, hands, and legs, feet, and I guess technically thighs are the most confusing parts of this chart and doing these math problems, because you really have to break it down because you have fronts and backs of two, you know, bilateral limbs. So keep this in mind. Arms, hands in total, 19%. Arms, hands, just front totals, nine and a half percent. Arms, hands, just unilateral, one side, just front, 4.75%. Let's do thighs. And I'm also going to draw in genitals because you can't talk about thighs without talking about genitals because it's right there. So let's start with genitals. That one's easy. One percent. Easy to remember. One percent genital. Now looking at thighs, the front of the thigh of one side. So we're talking about unilateral, one side, just the front, 4.75%, just like arms plus hands. And then the other thigh also on the front, also just on one side, 4.75%. The total body surface area of both thighs, just on the front, 9.5%. So what you're seeing here is that thighs and arms, hands are the same, which makes it a little bit easier to remember when we're talking about adults. Now, if just the front of the thighs is a total of 9.5, that means the total body surface area of all thighs bilaterally is also 19%. 4.75 times 4. Pretty easy math problem. So those are your thighs. Again, don't get confused. I know when we introduce these bilateral segments, it gets a little bit more challenging. Let's wrap up with legs and feet. So in total, the total body surface area of legs plus feet is 21%. So when we look at just the front of both legs plus both feet, we're at 10.5%. When we look at just one leg plus one foot, so either the right or the left, on just the front, that's 5.75%. Of course, if we look at both fronts, we're doubling that. So we're at 10.5%. And then of course, we're also, you know, we have the backside and it's the same process. So here is your chart. I have adult child infant on the right, the visual depiction of how we break this down on the left. The test writer is going to tell you that the patient was burned in these three or these four locations. And then they're going to ask you for the total percentage of total body, total body surface area burned. And you're going to have to add these percentages up and spit out a number. If they really want to get fancy on you, they're going to ask you for next steps in management. But I think this is where you would get the most bang for your buck. So this is what I want you to memorize. This is what I want you to understand. That is Burns. Best of luck.