So seephilosporins are a huge pain in the ass to learn. And if you've ever cracked open a textbook or looked through a question bank, you know that sephilosporins are divided up into five different generations. First, second, third, fourth, and fifth. And it's actually really high yield and important to know which specific sephilosporin falls into each of these five different categories because the five different categories are used for different indications. They can do different things like some can cross the bloodb brain barrier and some can treat sudamonus and some are used for respiratory infections and other are used for urinary tract infections. But all of that high yield clinical information aside the reason that this is so difficult to learn is because yes you have five different generations but all of these drugs start with seph. So separating them from 1 2 3 four and fifth generations is really challenging and you do need to know specifically which sephilosporin falls into which category. So the focus of this video today is to show you my really cool simple efficient high yield pneumonic for knowing which sephilosporum falls into which category. This is going to be a breeze and super easy to learn. So bear with me, pay attention and by the end of this video you'll be an expert on the sephilosporins. So before we get into categorizing which seephilosporin is in which generation, let's just do a brief overview of this class of antibiotics. So sephilosporins are very closely related to the penicillins. The mechanism of sephilosporins for all of them regardless of which generation we're talking about is that they inhibit cell wall synthesis in a bacteriaidal manner. Okay, so they're bacteriaidal. They're actually killing the bacteria. Now, the adverse drug reactions for the sephilosporins are relatively unique and I would recommend that you know this list. You can get hypers sensitivity reactions, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, dulfram like reaction, which is always a test favorite. So definitely know that one. vitamin K deficiency and what I'll refer to as nephrotoxic synergy specifically with the other antibiotic class the amoglycosside. So all that means is that if you have somebody on a sephilosporin and an aminoglycosside then you basically double or increase the risk of necrotoxicity. So sephilosporins potentiate the nephrotoxicity that you get with aminoglycosides. Now now again this is just an overview. So I would recommend that you know the mechanism and know the adverse drug reactions. But the bulk of today's video and our focus is going to be on this slide. How do we know which specific sephilosporins are first generations, second generations, third generations, fourth generations, and fifth generations? Because after all, if you don't know which specific sub type or specific sephilosporin falls into each category, how can you know which one treats UTI versus respiratory infections versus pseudamonus versus can cross the bloodb brain barrier? All of that clinical information that you should probably know comes secondary to simply being able to categorize these into different generations. So, here is how we're going to learn this. And I'm going to give you the pneumonic first and then we'll go through the generations one at a time and I'll show you how easy it is to apply the pneumonic and learn how to categorize the sephilosporins. So here's the pneumonic as ale. Two, we're basically going to skip because we're going to use that as the process of elimination. Three, really simply the pneumonic is three. Four, very simply, the pneummonic is four. And for the fifth generation, the pneummonic is tar. And if this makes zero sense to you right now, which it should because I've not given you any context or background information, bear with me. This will all make sense. So let's start with the first generation sephilosporins. And the pneumonic as you see on this slide is as ale. So as ale, we're talking about first generation sephilosporins. Now why is the pneumonic as ale? Well, the two drugs are sephaseline and sephal exin. So sephal and sephaseline. So as an ale and you know for this pneumonic to work I think of walking into a bar or maybe going over somebody's house and the first thing that you ask is do you has any ale right do they have anything for you to drink do they has any ale as for seph aelin and ale for seph ale exin and the reason that this is easy to remember is because it's the first thing you should ask so ale and as or as any ale is a first generation Sephilosporin. So imagine you're going out on a Friday night. You walk into your friend's house, maybe you're pregaming a little bit. The first thing you should ask is, "Hey, do you as any ale?" As for Sephelin and ale for Sephexin. So first generation is the first thing you should ask. As any ale, Sephelin Sephin. Okay, easy. Done. Don't think anything more of it. First generation, remember what's the first thing you should ask? Do you add any ale? because everybody wants a little bit to drink. All right, so that's our first generation sephilosporins. Again, the focus of the video is just to categorize which specific sephilosporins fall into which category. I'll point out some minor clinical tidbits as we go, but let's focus on just categorization. So, moving on, we're actually going to skip the second generation because the second generation is just a cluster of different sephilosporins. And if you look in any review textbook, you see how absolutely horrible and horrendous their pneumonics are. They make no sense. They don't apply to the word sephilosporin. They hardly apply to the second or two in second generation. It's terrible. I don't want to confuse you. I don't want to insult you by giving you any bad pneumonics. So, we're simply going to skip it. And at the very end of this video, you'll just know by the process of elimination that if they ask you about a sephilosporin that doesn't fall into first generation, third generation, fourth generation, or fifth generation, it has to be second by the process of elimination. So we're simply going to skip the second generation sephilosporins. Okay? So first generation, what's the first thing you do? You ask, do you add any ale? Seph aelin seph ale exin. Second generation we skip because we're going to use the process of elimination. Now let's talk about the third generation. So because it's the third generation the pneummonic is three. And this is so beautifully constructed really easy to remember. First let me tell you what the three sephosporins are. You have sept trioxone, sephotaxim and septacm. Okay seph trioxone, sephotaxim and septacazidem. So the three things are try, tax and taz. Now you're probably wondering how do I remember this? How do I relate that to the pneumonic three and therefore by extension the third generation sephilosporins. So the first one's really easy. Try means three. Try is the prefix for three. Seph triacoxone remind always reminded me of seph 3axone. So it's a third generation sephilosporim. Sephot taxim. Well, you do your taxes in the third month of the calendar year. So here in America, most people do their taxes in March and March is the third month of the year. So tax sepho tax em you do your taxes in the third month of the year. And third reminds me of third generation. So super easy. You just have to know how Americans do their taxes. That's all. And Seph Tacazidim. Well, Taz always made me think of the Tasmanian devil, which literally, aside from the Looney Tunes depiction of it, is a small like rodent thing that is found in Australia. So, I always thought about three Tasmanian devils, which I literally had this picture in my notebook when I was in medical school. So, three Tasmanian devils. Taz for Sephazadm and three of them reminds me of the third generation. So, Seph triacone tri means three. Sephot taxim you do your taxes for sephot taxim in the third calendar month of the year or in March and septacazidem taz for tasmanian devils and here's a picture of three of them so these are the drugs in the third generation of the sephilosporins done easy crushing it let's keep it rolling so quick review so far first generation what's the first thing you ask do you has any ale seph aelin seph ale exin We're going to skip the second generation. And at the very end of this lecture, if you ever get a practice question that is asking you about a sephilosporin and you either don't recognize it or it doesn't fall into the other pneumonics for first, third, fourth, or fifth, then you'll just guess second and chances are you'll be right. And then for our third generation, the pneumonic is three. Remember, it's the it's the sephilosporins that have try in the middle of the name, tax in the middle of the name because you do your taxes in the third month of the year, and TAZ because the Tasmanian Devils, there were three of them in the picture that I put on the slide. We're crushing it, guys. Super proud of you. I hope you're paying attention because you're learning one of the most difficult conceptualizations of pharmarmacology that you could possibly be asked on USML or complex fourth generation. Let's keep it rolling. So just like for how the third generation the pneummonic was three, for the fourth generation the pneummonic is four. And there's really only one drug that you need to know for this class and it's sephop. And instead of saying sephopime, I want you to say sephorpe. Seth instead of sephop and four should obviously cue you that we're talking about a fourth generation sephilosporin. Now the really high yield clinical tidbit for the fourth generation seephilosporin sephopime or if you're memorizing the pneumonic sephorim is that it actually covers pseudomonus. Okay, so you get pseudomonal coverage from sephop. And it's really easy to remember that because there's four syllables in pseudomonus. Sudomonus. And because there's four syllables in sudomonus, you should remember that you get pseudonus coverage from the fourth generation sephilosporin, which is sephorp. So we're going to put all of this information together. Sephime or Sephorpe is the only sephilosporin that gives you coverage against sudomonus which has four syllables. I know it's probably annoying to hear me repeat that so much but you got to drill this into your brain because if you're getting a test question and the patient has some risk factor for sudamonis the answer is going to be sephop because you got to cover against it right should make perfect sense. So that's the really simple fourth generation sephilosporin sephopime sephforime and sudomonus has four syllables so we cover against it with the fourth generation sephilosporin sephforime or sephopim fifth generation is our last category here and the pneummonic is tar and I know what you're thinking why the hell is the pneumonic tar well the drug here is septaralene septaralene so tar for tar in the middle of septaralene. And the way that you remember this is that tar should remind you of the University of North Carolina because they're called the UNC Tarheels and this is their logo, right? It's a foot. So, they're the Tarheels. And what you may notice is that the Tarheels logo or the foot has five toes, which should remind you that this is a fifth generation sephilosporin. So, the pneummonic is tar. And why is the pneumonic tar? Because septarolin is the drug and the tar heels for septarolin has five toes. And that reminds you that we're talking about the fifth generation sephilosporin. So we're done guys. That is the pneumonic here. First generation as ale. Third generation is three. Fourth generation is four. Fifth generation is tar. If there's anything that doesn't fall into one of those four categories, then it's got to be the second generation by the process of elimination. So here's our summary slide. We've got the generation, the drugs, and my pneumonic. So here we go. First generation, you have Sephaseline and Seph ALX. And to you, as any ale, that's the first thing you should ask. Second generation, we're skipping. Third generation, the pneummonic is three. Try means three. You do your taxes in the third month of the calendar year. And three Tasmanian devils for Sephas edem. Fourth generation. Sephipm Sephorpe. And it covers against pseudomonus because there's four syllables in pseudomonus. Fifth generation, the pneumonic is tar because the UNC tar heels and the tarheel logo has five toes. So five for fifth generation and tar for tar heels and seph tarolene. This is the summary slide. If you memorize this, you're going to get probably 90% or more of these questions correct. You absolutely need to know which sephilosporn goes into which category. And it's only once you understand that can you take this one step further when you're actually studying and start to apply concepts like which generation treats UTI, which generation treats uh respiratory infections, etc., etc. But this is where you've got to start. So start here, learn how to categorize them, and it'll make your learning of these antibiotics, these sephilosporins that much easier. If you liked this video, please like the video, subscribe to my channel, and if you feel so inclined, check out the description of this video and click my Patreon link to set up a monthly donation to support my channel. Love you guys. Keep crushing it.