 If you're an osteopathic medical student, you're liable to be asked legal questions on your complex and possibly depending on what school you go to, you're in class exams. When most students are studying this topic, they have no idea how to study for this because either one, they don't have a list of the cases that they should be studying and two, you know, you guys are in medical school, not law school, so it's a little bit more challenging to understand the legal nuances. So let's go through a list of legal cases that I've assembled that I've assembled that I think you should probably know what I've assembled that I think you should probably know if you're going to take Comlex. As you'll see in just a moment, we'll go through these cases, talk very briefly about the facts of the case, and then the important thing to know is the clinical relevance or what's relevant to you as a future physician. I'll give you visual mnemonics for most of these cases to help you memorize this so that it sticks in your brain. And we'll go in order of the year, starting with the oldest, the year year that these cases happened. So we'll start with Schloendorf versus Society of New York Hospital. So in short, a patient, Mary Schloendorf went to New York Hospital, she was having GI symptoms, they found a tumor. She agreed to allow that tumor to be examined, but she didn't want it removed. While under anesthesia, for one reason or another, the tumor was removed, she developed gangrene. She then sued the hospital. And the question at the time was, is the hospital, which was a nonprofit, liable for the actions of its employees. And the clinical relevance here is that this established the principle of respondent superior, and I'm sure I'm butchering the pronunciation of that word, so my apologies, as well as the need for consent. But respondent superior was the big takeaway from this case. In other words, a hospital, even if it was a nonprofit, yes, they were liable for the actions of their employees. Remember that respondent superior is, quote, let the master answer, or the master servant rule, meaning anybody in healthcare is liable for the actions of their subordinates. So how do you memorize this? Schloendorf reminds me of dwarf. So this is our Schloendorf. This is the most famous dwarf I can think of. This is Gimli from Lord of the Rings. And the sigil on his armor is a toxic symbol, which can help you remember that the individual was experiencing GI symptoms. Although to be honest, that's really not important. The important thing here is to know that Schloendorf is associated with respondent superior And in our image, we have the dwarf's superior. And this image will help you memorize that Schloendorf has a superior, or Schloendorf is relevant because of respondent superior. So this is the image that you can memorize if it helps you. Now we move on to Salgo versus Leland Stanford Jr. University Board of Trustees. So in short, a patient had vascular symptoms and underwent an aortogram. The patient woke up paralyzed because of sodium urocon injections. The patient sued, claiming that he was not explained the potential risk of paralysis. And the clinical relevance is that this case really established the principle of informed consent and how a healthcare provider should undergo getting informed consent. So Salgo equals informed consent. And Salgo reminds me of go like the green light on a traffic light. And here we have a vehicle with a consent or a notice sticker on the side of the vehicle. And this is the association that I make. Salgo, go traffic. The car has consent on it. So Salgo involved informed consent. I know it's silly, but if it helps you memorize the case, then it's pretty useful. Now we'll talk about Griswold versus Connecticut. So in short, Estelle Griswold was the executive director of Planned Parenthood League of Connecticut. And essentially, she opened a birth control clinic with the intention of challenging a then Connecticut law, which made it illegal to use any means to further contraception. And the U.S. Supreme Court voted in favor of Griswold, which ended up striking down the then law that prohibited using any means to further contraception. So Griswold was involved in making the use of contraception by married couples legal. So the takeaway here is that it prevented states from banning the use of contraception by married couples. So Griswold makes me think of grizzly bears. And here we have a married grizzly bear couple because this case involved specifically married couples. And you want to associate this with it being legal to use contraception. And so here we will place a condom on the head of one of the grizzly bears. This is our contraception and our grizzly bears. So Griswold equals contraception is legal in married couples. The next case that I'll talk about is actually two cases. There was Roe v. Wade in 1973. And we'll also talk about Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization in 2022. So originally, Roe v. Wade centered around Jane Roe, who lived in Texas and was pregnant and wanted to get an abortion. But abortion was illegal at the time in Texas, except in cases to save the mother's life. So Jane Roe sued, arguing that Texas law was unconstitutional. The Supreme Court ruled in favor of Jane Roe. And essentially, Roe v. Wade established in 1973 the constitutionally protected right to abortion. Then in 2022, there was the case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, which overruled Roe and another case, but overruled Roe v. Wade and returned the decision to whether or not abortion was constitutionally protected to individual states. So the takeaway is that Roe established constitutionally protected rights to abortion, and then Dobbs overruled that initial ruling and returned the decision to the states. No visual mnemonic here. Roe v. Wade and Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. The next case is Tarasov versus the regents of the University of California. Tatiana Tarasov was murdered by an individual named Prosenjit Padar. Padar became depressed and he stalked Tarasov. He revealed to a university psychologist that he actually had planned to kill Tarasov. He was detained and held on a mental health hold, but he was later released. And prior to his release, nobody warned Tarasov of the original threats. And then, of course, he ends up murdering her. The takeaway from Tarasov is that mental health professionals have a duty to warn third parties if their patients reveal potential harm. So this is an instance where mental health providers have the ability and the duty to violate their patients' HIPAA protections to warn third parties. So Tarasov equals duty to warn for mental health reasons. So the way that I memorize this and the way that this may help you is you want to think about a warning sign. And so here we have a warning sign, like a traffic sign, and we'll replace the words slow down with Tarasov. So Tarasov equals duty to warn. Additionally, warning sign, also holding a DSM, which helps you remember that this is associated with mental health care and mental health providers. So Tarasov equals warning, DSM for mental health. Kruzan versus director. So Nancy Kruzan was in a motor vehicle accident and subsequently was in a persistent vegetative state. Her parents wanted her feeding tube to be removed and all life-sustaining care terminated. However, the state hospital refused to do that. And so it went to the Supreme Court, which affirmed the state's decision and ruled that incompetent persons, right, patients who are incompetent, in this case because of a persistent vegetative state, are not protected under the right to refuse treatment. In other words, if you're competent, you have the right to refuse treatment. But if you are in a persistent vegetative state at the time, they ruled that no such protection existed. And so as a result of Kruzan v. Director, this led to the creation of advanced health care directives. So people would make their wishes known before, ideally, they were in a persistent vegetative state. So Kruzan v. Director, we need to associate that with an advanced directive. So right off the bat, luckily, director is in the name. It's Kruzan v. Director. And so director equals advanced directive. However, if you need a visual mnemonic, Kruzan makes me think of a Chevy Cruze. And here is somebody directing traffic. So Kruze or Chevy Cruze versus the director. And the director is giving a directive, which helps you memorize that Kruzan v. Director equals advanced directives. That's the big clinical relevance to this case. Rouse versus Pitt County Memorial Hospital. So Vicki Rouse was in labor and had to have an emergency C-section after non-reassuring fetal heart patterns. She was under the care of residents who were being supervised by an attending. The OB team did not identify abnormal fetal heart rates. And so the newborn developed complications, including cerebral anoxia, seizures, and had to go to the NICU. The attending was found to be negligent due to their improper supervision of residents. And so Rouse equals the clinical relevance here is that it creates the concept that attendings can be found negligent if they negligently supervise their residents. So attendings are on the hook here for the residents that they oversee. And so Rouse makes me think of Ronda Rousey. And here is Ronda Rousey supervising a bunch of learners and teaching them how to take somebody down. So Rouse for Ronda Rousey supervising learners, which reminds me that you have an attending who will be found negligent if they don't correctly supervise their residents. Let's conclude with Safer v. Pack. So Dr. George Pack treated Donna Schaefer's father. He had colon cancer with multiple polyposis. Years later, Donna was also diagnosed with the same condition, which required her to have her bowel and ovary removed. And she sued the estate of Pack, who was actually deceased later on at this time, alleging that he was negligent because he did not warn her or her family of the increased genetic risk of multiple polyposis and the potential development of colon cancer. And so what this case led to was the concept that physicians have a duty to warn of avoidable harms by a genetically transmissible disease. And I don't have a visual mnemonic here, but because safer is in the name, just remember that patients will be safer if you warn them about potential diseases. And safer v. Pack is about warning about potential genetically transmissible disease. So that does it for this video. So I went through it somewhat quickly, but I think, honestly, if you use the visual mnemonics and the other mnemonics, you'll be in good shape here. You want to know these cases. Yes, there could be cases beyond this list, but these are the big ones as far as I'm aware. So I would do the best that you can. And remember that you're in medical school, not law school. So whatever points you get on test day, I think, you know, do your best and focus on some other more high yield topics. Good luck.