So today's video is a hugely popular topic. It's been requested hundreds of times in the comment section uh all over my channel. We're going to be talking about diabetes drugs. Now, the way that I want you to conceptualize diabetes drugs is to basically break them down into type 1 diabetes drugs and type 2 diabetes drugs. And as I make this distinction on this flowchart that you're about to see, I'm taking a few liberties here because obviously there is some crossover depending on the severity of type 1 and the severity of type two. But for the most part, you could separate these mentally into insulin being the treatment for type 1 diabetes and the oral agents or the oral anti-hypoglycemics being the treatment for type 2 diabetes. and just get comfortable with this distinction because this is really how it's going to appear on USMLE and on COMMLEX. Now, there are different types of insulins and we'll talk about all of those first and then we'll transition into the major topic of today's video which are all the different oral anti-hypoglycemics. Just as an overview, we'll be talking about things like rapid acting insulin, short acting insulin, intermediate acting insulin, and long acting insulin. And then when we get into again the the main portion of today's video, we'll be talking about all the oral agents which include metformin, sulfanyl uras, meglitenides, DPP4 inhibitors, GLP-1 agonists, SGLT2 inhibitors, a carbos, thazo, leinadones, and amalain analoges. So you know that's a mouthful. Don't get overwhelmed. I'm going to break all of this down, make it really palatable, make it super easy. I'll give you an awesome pneumonic to help you remember everything that you need to know and you'll leave this video as a master of the pharmarmacology section as it comes as it pertains to diabetes drugs. So let's get started by talking about insulin. Now basically for the purposes of USML complex and even your inclass medical school exams you're going to have to understand a couple things about insulin. the the main part of that is going to be on a graph. You're going to have to know the peak time of the different insulins and how long the different insulins last. So, while that's somewhat annoying, it's also nice to know that there's only three things you need to know about each insulin. You need to know the name of the insulin and what category it falls into. So, you know, if for example, a spart is that rapid acting, short acting, intermediate, long, etc. You have to know its peak time and how long it lasts. And that's really it. So, three facts about each insulin. Not too much to memorize. Arguably not as bad as learning an oral agent because there's no there's no mechanism here. You just have to know again the name of the insulin, when it peaks, and how long it lasts. So, let's go through these by category. So, first we'll talk about the three rapid acting insulins. And rapid acting insulins will be depicted on this insulin level versus time graph as shown in red. So the rapid acting insulins include lispro, a spart and glucosine. They have a peak time of somewhere around 1 to one and 1/2 hours. And these insulins last for 3 to 4 hours. Okay. So if you have a type 1 diabetic, these are usually the insulins that they're taking when they're eating a meal or if their blood if their blood glucose is 200 and they need to correct that and lower it back down to physiologic range. This is the type of insulin that accomplishes that. It peaks at about one hour. It lasts for three to four hours shown in my graph on red. The next group of insulins that we'll talk about are the short acting insulins which will be represented by blue. There's only one that you need to know. So this is pretty sweet for the purposes of memorization and that's regular. So literally they named an insulin regular. Not too hard to remember. Regular insulin or short acting insulins as a whole last two and a have a peak of two and a half hours and last for four to six hours. So these are longer lasting than the rapid acting hence the name short acting. The next group is the intermediate acting and the major player in the intermediate group which is shown on my graph in purple is NPH. NPH insulin has a peak of around 8 hours and overall it lasts for 10 to 16 hours. Now, please take this opportunity to notice that on the axis of my graph, the time in hours is not drawn to scale because I'm jumping from 8 to 16 to 24 just to illustrate different insulins. But intermediate acting insulin, specifically NPH, has a peak of 8 hours and lasts 10 to 16. The final category shown in green is the long acting insulins and there are two that you need to know. Glargine and dete. There's technically no peak time for the long acting insulins and these last for 24 hours. So these are the insulins that your type 1 diabetics are going to take once a day and this replaces the basil functioning of their pancreas. So normally all humans that don't have type 1 diabetes, your pancreas is, you know, outputting a teeny teeny bit of insulin throughout the day just to keep you in that normal physiologic blood glucose range. But type 1 diabetics of course don't have that ability because their pancreas has destroyed its own beta cells and therefore there's no insulin production whatsoever. So to replace that basil functioning that our pancreases all usually have, there's going to be long acting insulin taken once a day. And because it's not peaking and it's just giving you some baseline coverage throughout the day, it's acting as the basil rate. So the long acting insulins are really nice in that they don't peak. They last for 24 hours. They're taken once a day. Now I know what you're thinking here. you're going, okay, that's not too much information, but how am I going to remember which insulin belongs to each category? And I've got some pretty sweet pneumonics for you. So, the first one is that rapid insulins do not lag. L A G lag for lispro aspar and glucosine. Rapid acting insulins do not lag. The second pneumonic is regular and short. So, to remember that regular insulin is in the category of short acting insulin, just remember the pneumonic regular and short. The third one is that intermediate insulins are not particularly hasty. NPH, not particularly hasty. The insulin's name is literally NPH. So just remember that intermediate is not particularly hasty, which of course means that it's not too fast acting. And then our final pneumonic is godamn 24 hours is a long time. GD for glargene and dete. So these are four pneumonics, literally one short sentence or one short phrase for each of our four categories that will help you remember which insulins belong to which class. Again before I transition to the type two oral agents, just remember you only need to know the name of the insulin and which category it belongs to, the peak time and the total duration time. So when does it peak, how long does it last, and which of these four categories does it belong to? Come back to this slide if you want to review the pneumonics. But if you just memorize these short phrases, you should be good for all of the insulin category. So, let's just do a check-in. We've so far covered all of the type 1 diabetes medications, namely the different types of insulins. Now, we're going to transition into what will be the bulk of today's video. It'll take up most of today's video. It'll be the scariest thing for your eyes to look at on the slide, but at the end of the day, you're going to know all of these oral agents just fine. So let's begin our conversation about the type 2 diabetes medications. And these are all of the different oral anti-hyperglycemics. So we'll start this conversation by talking about the prototypical type 2 diabetes oral agent and that's metformin. You might see this written as the bigide because that's the category of medication. But because metformin is really the only that you need to be familiar with for USML complex and medical school, this we just say metformin. We don't say buanides. The mechanism of metformin is that metformin inhibits well it really does a few things. It inhibits hpatic gluconneogenesis. It increases glycolysis. It increases peripheral glucose uptake and the net effect of all three of those actions is that it's decreasing glucose and that is the mechanism by which it treats type 2 diabetes. The adverse effects of metformin um and the one that you really need to remember as you if you take anything from this slide is that metformin causes lactic acidosis in renal insufficiency. And we'll talk more about that in just a moment. The other two adverse effects to know is that um metformin can cause a B12 deficiency and it also tends to cause a little bit of GI upset. Now let's talk briefly about this lactic acidosis which is especially common in renal insufficiency. Lactic acidosis can be fatal. So it's that's why this adverse effect needs to be talked about. So you've got your kidneys here and normally metformin is excreted by the kidneys. So somebody takes methformin, it goes through the system, enters the kidneys, get filtered out um and is excreted through the kidneys. Now there's a certain situation that you'll encounter a lot once you reach your clinical years of medical school, which for most people is still the third year of medical school, and that's somebody's, you know, on the internal medicine service, admitted to the hospital, and they need to get a CT scan. Usually, not always, but a lot of the time in different imaging modalities, people are going to be given contrast. Contrast enhances the image. I'm not going to get into radiology right now, but it enhances the image and provides um more clarity for the physician to look at when the image um is done. And what happens when you give somebody contrast is that contrast actually can cause a what's called a contrast induced nephropathy. So it basically temporarily damages and inhibits the kidney's normal function. And what happens in the case of a patient who's taking metformin is that because the kidney is usually excreting metformin, if you have a contrast nefropathy and temporarily contrast reduces somebody's renal function, then the kidneys cannot excrete metformin and therefore metformin builds up. And when metformin builds up because it has a propensity to cause lactic acidosis, this can actually cause a fatal toxic lactic acidosis. And people die from this. So it's very serious. This is why when you get into the hospital in your third year of medical school or whenever you're going to be starting up on the floors, you'll notice that for a lot of patients that get admitted to the hospital, their metformin will be held. meaning when they're admitted, the um the resident or the attending that's admitting them to the service is not going to continue their metformin. And the reason that that's happening is not necessarily because metformin is super toxic. It's it's actually quite safe of a medication. It's because the person who's admitting them to the hospital isn't sure if they're going to need contrast. And therefore, if there would come a time in the next day or two where the patient will need contrast as part of their imaging, it's just easier if the metformin is already out of their system. So metformin usually gets held when somebody gets admitted to a hospital. Now how do you remember this? This is the biggest point the most high yield thing to know about metformin. Well metformin starts with me. And of course lactic acidosis is a type of metabolic acidosis. So you can remember this major adverse reaction in metformin by remembering met because again lactic acidosis is a type of metabolic acidosis and metformin can cause it. So that's metformin again know the mechanism but please know this adverse effect of lactic acidosis especially in the setting of renal insufficiency. It's very very important and clinically once you start practicing you're going to need to remember this. Let's talk about our next category of medication. So we will transition to the sulfonal uras. The sulfanyl uras have a mechanism and what they do is they increase the release of insulin. The adverse effects of sulfanyl uras are hypoglycemia and actually a dulfurum like reaction. Um the mechanism of sophonalas is that it's increasing the release of insulin by depolarizing the potassium channel. So I've I've put a little schematic on the slide so you can see what that looks like. But basically the sophonora drug blocks this channel depolarizes the cell calcium channels are opened and you get the release of insulin. That's how sophonal uras work. The sophonal uras are the drugs that end in ey glaride glyphoside and glyuride. And the way that I remembered this back in the day was my pneumonic is thinking about talking to somebody who has type two diabetes. And what better example than Wilfford Brimley. I don't know if you remember the Wilfford Brimley commercials, but they always started off with him sitting on a nice couch in a in a beautiful living room and he in his little southern accent said, "I'm Wilfr Brimley and I have diabetes." And then he would talk, you know, he'd pitch some diabetes related drug or or or device. Um, so what you want to do in this pneumonic is you think about talking to a type two diabetic and you tell them I'd take your sulfonal ura. If I were you, I'd take your sophonal ura. And that reminds me that all of the sulfanoras have eyed i. They end with eyed. You tell them I'd take your sulfonal ura. So that's it for sophonalas. Again, the usually the biggest challenge for medical students and other graduate health professionals is grouping the drug into the right category. So like if you get a practice question and it says which of the following drugs has the mechanism of blah blah blah and one of the answer choices is glyuride if if you don't know that glyuride is a sophonalora even if you know the mechanism of the sopanooras you just won't get the question right. So these pneumonics are to help you remember what category these drugs belong to. So let's do a brief check-in now. We've talked about metformin we've talked about sopanooras. We are making progress as we move through the oral anti-hypoglycemics. Let's keep it rolling by talking about the next category, the meglitenides. Now the meglitenides are almost identical to sulfanoras. They end in eyid as you see on the slide and their mechanism is basically the same exact thing but the only caveat that I want to throw in here is that they do it by a different binding site. So the sulfanoras blocked and deolarized a binding site on the potassium channel. Although the meglitenides have the same cascade of events, they they they bind to a certain area, they cause depolarization, calcium channels are opened and insulin is released, they do it at a different binding site than the sulfanoras, but everything else about these drugs is nearly identical. So for the purposes again of USML and comlex I want you to think of melitenides and sulfanioras of doing the same exact thing having both of them end with ID and both of them can cause hypoglycemia. So like the sulfanoras my pneumonic for melitenides is the same thing. I'd take your meglitenides. So you need to remember I'd take your sulfanoras and I'd take your meglitenides because these drugs also end in id as you see at the top of this slide. nataglenide and repaginide. I'm butchering the names, I'm sorry. Um, but the big point again, they end in ey. I'd take your mlinide. Let's talk about the next category of medications. These are the DPP4 inhibitors. These are drugs that end in glyptin, um, leng, saxin, citagly. They all end in lippin or glyptin. The mechanism of DPP4 inhibitors is obviously as the name implies they inhibit DPP4 which in turn potenti potentiates GLP-1 and and don't get overwhelmed by these acronyms. I'll I'll talk about what this looks like in just a moment. The adverse effects of DPP4 inhibitors are somewhat unique, so you definitely need to know them. They are urinary infections and respiratory infections. Um the the biggest thing is to understand what this mechanism is and how it works. So, let's take a moment to to dive deeper into this. So, imagine that you eat a juicy hamburger. People who aren't in the United States are like, "God, you Americans in your filthy diet." But let's just imagine that you eat a a hamburger. What normally happens is when you eat something, the body releases glucagon like peptide 1 or GLP-1 for short. And what glucagon like peptide 1 leads to is it um promotes insulin release and inhibits glucagon release. Okay, so that's the normal functioning of GLP-1. But there is uh an enzyme in the body known as depidal peptidase 4 or DPP4 for short. And what DPP4 does is it inhibits glucagon like peptide. Basically knocks it out. So if you have this enzyme that's normally present in the body which normally destroys or inhibits GLP-1, you do not get insulin release. You do not get the promotion of insulin release. You do not get the inhibition of glucagon release and therefore you can um your your blood glucose can be higher than it otherwise would be because you're not getting the release of insulin and you're not getting the inhibition of glucagon. So what a DPP4 inhibitor does perhaps obviously if you look at the name is it inhibits that enzyme. So it inhibits DPP4 which means DPP4 is not available to inhibit GLP-1 which means that there's disinhibition of GLP-1 which means there's more promotion of insulin release shown in green and more inhibition of glucagon release shown in red and the net effect of that is to lower glucose levels which is how it treats type 2 diabetes. So that's how a DPP4 inhibitor works. These are the drugs that end in liptin. Lenoglyptin, saxoglyptin, cedagyptin. Now while we're talking about this mechanism, let's look at the GLP-1 agonists since the mechanisms are so closely intertwined. So the GLP-1 agonists are exenotide and laglutide. So these end in tide ti. The mechanism of the GLP-1 agonist as the name suggests and as you just saw on the previous slide is that these potentiate GLP-1 or glucagon like peptide 1. The adverse effects of the GLP-1 agonist also a little bit unique. So know it it's pancreatitis. Now let's go back to our slide that we just talked about when we looked at the DPP4 inhibitors. What you can see is that another way to stimulate insulin release and another way to promote the inhibition of glucagon release is to use a GLP-1 agonist. A GLP-1 agonist just potentiates this process and makes it happen faster. So the big takeaway from this slide is that DPP4 inhibitors and GLP-1 agonist, they both work in a similar fashion in the sense that they're both promoting the same process. they just do that differently. So, how are you going to remember this? And more importantly, how are you going to remember the different drugs and that they belong to these two individual classes? So, let's look at GLP-1 agonist first. You'll notice that they both end in tide. And when I think about GLP-1, I think about gulp. GLP. Gulp. Like the sound that somebody makes when they're swallowing. Gulp. And I don't know if you guys remember, but um a few years ago, there was this really stupid thing called the Tide Pod Challenge. And there were these idiot teenagers eating, swallowing Tide pods. Tide, for anybody that doesn't know, um, Tide Pods are like laundry detergent pods that we put in our washing machines here in the US and it cleans our clothes. So, the way that I remember this is I think about somebody gulping down Tide Pods. These idiots thought this was a good idea and it really wasn't, but it went viral viral on social media. So, um, gulping down tide pods is how I remember that the drugs that end in tide belong to the gulp or GLP-1 category. Um, and here's a clipping from New York Times that talked about this when it happened. Yes, people are really eating tide pods. It was insane. Um, but that's America for you guys. Now, let's talk about DPP4 inhibitors. You'll notice that all of these drugs end in liptin. Liptin. And that reminded me of a famous brand of iced tea called Liptin iced tea. And as anybody knows um iced tea and tea are uh diuretics. So the way that I remember this is that liptin makes you PP four more times. And this is awesome because it's liptin tea makes you PP four more times or PP4 for DPP4 inhibitors. So you've got all these drugs ending in liptin. Those are your DPP4 inhibitors. And you memorize that with my stupid pneumonic that liptin makes you pee pee four more times. You'll never forget this if you write this down and um can remember liptin tea or liptin iced tea. Let's do a little check-in and see where we are. Um at this point as far as the type two diabetes drugs as far as the oral anti-hypoglycemics we've now thus far talked about metformin sulfonyl uras meglitenides and then we just previously on the past few slides grouped in the DPP4 inhibitors and the GLP-1 agonist because they worked it through similar mechanisms. Let's talk about the sgt2 inhibitors and these are the drugs that end in frozen. So, can canly dapagly and empaglyphloin. The mechanism of the SGLT2 inhibitors as the name suggests is that it inhibits a co-ansporter called the sodium glucose coransporter 2. And that's what SGLT2 stands for. And what happens is when you inhibit that coransporter, you're decreasing the reabsorption of glucose in the proximal convoluted tubule of the kidney. And we'll talk about that more mech that mechanism more in depth in just a moment. The adverse effects of SGLT2 inhibitors are very unique. Um and they'll make a lot more sense after we talk about the mechanism, but they include glucosura, urinary tract infection, and vaginal yeast infections. Um they also can include hypercalemia and dehydration. these these adverse drug effects especially the three on the first line there glucosura UTI and vaginal yeast infection these will make a lot more sense if we dive into the mechanism so let's do that now so I want you to imagine that um we're in the nefrron we are in the proximal convoluted tubule and glucose is flowing through so you've had you drank some orange juice your your the glucose in your body has been increased and now it's flowing through the nephron normally for glucose to be reabsorbed into the system which in in effect makes glucose higher in the body. Glucose is reabsorbed through a co-ansporter and that coransporter is the sodium glucose coransporter 2. It's shown here in light blue and as the name suggests it's a co-ansporter that operates with both glucose and sodium. Now normally as I said under normal physiologic conditions the body is detecting glucose flowing through the proximal convoluted tubule. it knows exactly how much glucose to reabsorb and it does that to maintain glucose balance. But in a type two diabetic obviously their blood glucose tends tends to run a bit high and the goal is to decrease glucose in the body. And one of the ways that we do that is by giving somebody this SGLT2 inhibitor. And by inhibiting the re-uptake of glucose through these co-ansporters, we're effectively blocking glucose from being reabsorbed and instead the glucose will flow through and get urinated out. Now, if you think about that, the mechanism makes sense about how you decrease glucose, but the adverse effect makes even more sense. So recall that the adverse effect was glucose ura, so more glucose in your urine, which causes both urinary tract infections and vaginal yeast infections. And that should make perfect sense to you guys. If there's more glucose in the urine, it's more of a nitis for some type of pathogen to use that to utilize that glucose as fuel to infect the urine and for yeast to grow um on the vagina or in the vagina. So again, the adverse effects, glucose, ura, UTI, and vaginal yeast infection should make perfect sense considering the mechanism basically leads to more glucose in the urine. Now, how do you remember that the the flowin drugs are the SGLT2 inhibitors? Well, this is really easy. Just remember flows in through the urine or flowin through the urine. And that will remind you that the drugs that end in or flowin all go through the urine and are SGLT2 inhibitors. Now let's talk about alpha gluccocidase inhibitors and the major drug here that you need to know is a carbos but the secondary one that sometimes shows up is also myl. The mechanism of the alphagluccoidase inhibitors is that these inhibit intestinal brush border alphagluccoidases and you might remember that the alphagluccoidase enzyme is present in the intestinal brush border back from the GI section. the adverse effect here. Again, this will make more sense after we dive into the mechanism, but it's GI upset, gas, and bloating. So, let let's just take a visit to the intestine. You've got these oligosaccharides, which are basically the precursor components of glucose that have not yet been broken down into their monossaccharide derivatives. Um, basically glucose is a monossaccharide and it comes from oligosaccharides. So as these oligosaccharides flow through the intestine, they pass the brush border which has this enzyme alphagluccoidase just chilling on the side. And that alpha gluccoidase catalyzes the conversion of the oligosaccharide to its monossaccharide glucose derivative. And then once that monossaccharide glucose derivative has been made which again that that whole conversion is done by alpha gluccoidase that glucose can be absorbed through the intestinal wall and lead to you know higher glucose levels in the body. Now normally as I said with other drugs as examples the body knows exactly how much glucose it needs to absorb to keep a perfect balance. But in type 2 diabetes that balance is just not working. And one of the ways to decrease glucose is to prevent this absorption of glucose through the intestinal wall. And one of the ways we do that is by giving alkaluccoidyase inhibitors. So if you inhibit the enzyme that converts the iligosaccharide into its monossaccharide glucose derivative, you never have the availability of the monossaccharide glucose to be reabsorbed. So you basically knock out this process. You've got olig oligosaccharides just sitting in the intestines and they'll proceed through the intestines and get excreted in the feces. And if you think about this, the adverse effect should make perfect sense because you if you have more oligosaccharide in the intestine, it's going to cause a little bit of GI upset. It's going to cause a little bit of gas, a little bit of bloating. Now, I know what you're thinking. How do I remember that a carbos is an alphaglucidase inhibitor? And that's pretty easy because a carb literally means without carbs. So you're never getting the glucose because you're never converting it and therefore the intestine is without carbs. So that's how I remember alpha gluccocyase inhibitors. Again the big one is a carbos. So here is where we are so far. You guys are making awesome progress if you're following me. We've talked about metformin. We've talked about sulfonyl uras. We've talked about meglitenides. We've talked about both the DPP4 inhibitors and the GLP-1 agonists. We've talked about SGLT2 inhibitors and how they're very unique in the kidney. And now we've talked about a carbos and how it's very unique in the intestine. Let's wrap up by talking about the final two categories of the type 2 diabetes drugs. The next one is the thazo liddenones and that's the hardest one to say by far. These are your drugs that end in glitazone. So pyoglyazone and rosylitazone. The mechanism of the TZDs as I will call them because I do not want to pronounce that drug name again is that these bind to the perox peroxazone proliferator activated receptor gamma or pp gamma um binding site which is just a nuclear factor and the net effect of that nuclear factor is to increase insulin sensitivity. The adverse effects of the TCDs are are somewhat unique heart failure and increased risk of fra fracture. So definitely know the adverse effects of all these drugs cuz they're all pretty unique. Um, how do you remember this? This is a tough one cuz the name is so weird. But if you look at the drugs, you'll notice that they all have glitter or glitter if you like to party in the name. And that reminds me of um glitter, you know, like throwing glitter up in the air or um confetti, some type of party material. And my pneummonic here is that you want you want to bring glitter to the party. Glitter for glitterazone and party for PPR. It helps me memorize the the mechanism PP gamma. So bring glitter to the party. That's it for TZDs. Nothing else to know. Know the two adverse effects. Know the mechanism because the mechanism is very unique. Finally, we made it guys. Let's wrap up by talking about the amalin analoges. And luckily there's not a lot to know about the amalin analoges. if if on USML and Complex, I would argue to you that these will show up the least of any possible type 2 diabetes drug. So, you know, if you've made it to this point in the video and you're like, I have no brain space left, then I would punt these cuz this drug um the really the only one you need to know is pram linotide. It's not hugely high yield, but I'll include it here. The mechanism is that it's a synthetic amaline that works alongside insulin. So, I'm not going to get into the the subtlety and the the physiology of how amaline works, but it works with insulin to help insulin do its job. Um, and this is just a synthetic amaline. So, you're basically giving something that is a synthetic chemical that usually will help insulin promote the decrease of glucose. Adverse effect is hypoglycemia. Nothing really major or high yield to know here. I don't have a pneummonic for you. Just know that amalin works like insulin and that should make sense because they both end in lin insulin. Amalin and that's it guys. So we've gone through this video. We talked about type 1 diabetes insulins and type 2 diabetes anti-oral hyper anti- hyperglycemics. As you can tell my mouth is tired. We talked a lot. For your studying pleasure, here is a summary chart of all of my pneumonics for the type two drugs because those tend to be the hardest ones for students to memorize. You can go through this. I'm not going to read it to you. But again, what I will leave you with and what you should take away from this video is the different classes of the drugs for the type two drugs, which drugs belong to which class because you're going to need to make that association if you want to get the questions right, the mechanisms, the adverse effects. Um, and that's pretty much it for the for the type two drugs. And then just to revisit the first topic we talked about for those insulins, just remember peak time, duration time, and which insulin belongs to which category. This was a long video. Uh, thank you for sticking with me. Go through it a few times and you'll be a pro at these different drugs. Diabetes drugs are everywhere, right? Everybody is diabetic these days. So, you're going to need to know these. They're high yield for tests. They're high yield for real life. Um, know them well. Okay. Good luck, everybody.