idaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaidaida Typically, we divide endometrial carcinoma into two different types or two different pathways. Type 1 endometrial cancer is typically referred to as endometrioid. This tends to make up the overwhelming majority of cases, and it's endometrioid. Type 2 tends to only make up about 20% or so of cases, and this has a serous or clear cell origin. This tends to be estrogen-independent, but this tends to be much more aggressive and carry a poorer prognosis. Now, when we look at these different types, type 1 is highly associated with long-term unopposed estrogen, and what happens here is that that leads to atypical endometrial hyperplasia, which ultimately gives rise to the endometrial carcinoma. Some risk factors that you would want to look out for on your exam include nulliparity, or older age of first birth. A high body mass index, so look for patients with a past medical history of obesity or type 2 diabetes. Patients who have undergone estrogen replacement therapy. Patients with chronic anovulation, so PCOS. If you have a vignette where they're giving you a past medical history of PCOS, this might raise your suspicion. So, we're thinking about theca cell tumors, granulosa cell tumors, etc. Or a patient with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer or Lynch syndrome, because that is also highly associated with endometrial cancer. So, that's type 1. Bottom line here, type 1, which is arising from hyperplasia, endometrial hyperplasia, due to long-term unopposed estrogen. So, on your exam, you're going to get a patient who has some risk factor for unopposed estrogen leading to endometrial hyperplasia. Now, if we compare that to type 2, these type 2 endometrial cancers, these tend to be more sporadic, so they happen less often, but they're much more aggressive. So, in a type 2 cancer, we're talking about an estrogen-independent type of cancer here. And these are highly associated with a P53 mutation. These tumors will tend to exhibit much more aggressive behavior. So, when a patient is diagnosed with a type 2 endometrial cancer, their age at diagnosis tends to be much older, and there are some other risk factors that are estrogen-independent. This tends to also be diagnosed more often in African Americans. Really briefly, let's talk about protective factors. So, if unopposed estrogen is a risk factor, then obviously a protective factor is more progesterone exposure. So, we're talking about things like multi-parity or somebody who takes combination oral contraceptive pills. Interestingly, smoking is protective in one type but harmful in another. Obviously, the recommendation is not that you smoke cigarettes or that a patient smokes cigarettes to protect against this, but studies have shown that smoking might increase the risk of type 2 but decrease the risk of type 1 endometrial carcinoma. And then lastly, a diet rich in soy can be protective. So, bottom line, I'm going to repeat myself for the fourth time. Unopposed estrogen stimulation leads to endometrial hyperplasia highly associated with type 1, which is 80% of cases. Type 2, more genetic, more P53 mutations, more estrogen-independent, more aggressive. That only makes up about 20% of cases. Now, let's talk clinically because this is what you're going to get on your exam. On your exam, they are going to give you abnormal uterine bleeding. That's the big, big thing here. You're going to get abnormal uterine bleeding. You might get some of these other symptoms, including pelvic pain or an enlarged uterus or cervical abnormalities or possibly bowel or bladder changes if it's much more advanced and now you're dealing with mass effect. But the bottom line here for your exam is that postmenopausal bleeding is cancer until proven otherwise on your exam. And if the test writer wants to be kind, they're going to give you a postmenopausal woman. However, they could give you any, you know, premenopausal, perimenopausal. It'll probably be postmenopausal because the red flag needs to go off and make you think endometrial cancer until proven otherwise. But bottom line here is that the main symptom described in the vignette is going to be abnormal uterine bleeding. And if they weave in other risk factors for unopposed estrogen stimulation, then it really needs to get you thinking. Now, when it comes to diagnosis, admittedly, this can get really confusing. This is the most confusing part of endometrial carcinoma. So depending on what you read, there are going to be like 10 different scenarios in which you may or may not do endometrial sampling versus other less invasive measures. And in an effort to simplify this for you, I want you to just take away that if it sounds bad, meaning if it's more likely in theory that the patient in your question might have endometrial cancer, then you're going to do endometrial sampling. So that is to say, if it sounds worse with more risk factors, you would do endometrial sampling. So I've put a snippet of some of those presentations on this slide here. For example, a postmenopausal woman with abnormal uterine bleeding, you're going to do endometrial sampling. A premenopausal woman with abnormal uterine bleeding plus risk factors, yes, you would do endometrial sampling. That would be the answer on the test. Again, bottom line here is that if it could be bad, if there are risk factors and unusual symptoms, you do endometrial sampling with histology. So I'm not going to run through this any further. Bottom line here, does it sound bad? Are there risk factors? If yes, definitive diagnosis would be endometrial sampling with histology. Now let's conclude by just looking here at histopathology. So type 1 endometrial cancer, again, we're talking about endometrioid adenocarcinoma. These tumors tend to have glandular proliferation with atypical tubes, and they tend to have pseudostratified epithelial cells with enlarged nuclei. Comparing that to type 2 endometrial cancers, these are again, usually serous or clear cell origin. So for serous adenocarcinoma, look for the presence of somoma bodies or papillary structures with high-grade nuclei. And then you've got this other list of could be type 2 endometrial cancers. You know, in my experience, these tend to show up a little bit less on exams, but they include clear cell adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, and undifferentiated carcinoma. Now, bottom line here, before I close out on the video, I want you to remember, big picture, postmenopausal bleeding on your exam is cancer until proven otherwise. Okay? Postmenopausal bleeding is cancer until proven otherwise. If you think like that, then you should get these questions correct. On your exam, if you have some type of unopposed estrogen risk factor plus postmenopausal bleeding, think type 1 endometrial cancer. On your exam, if you have a thin elderly woman with a markedly aggressive tumor presentation, think type 2 endometrial cancer. And if you can keep those concepts straight in your head and understand these risk factors, I think this should be a fairly easy topic for you.