 nilililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililililil Imaging is performed and the results are shown below. Which of the following pathophysiologies is responsible for this presentation? Now, while you're looking at this question, and please pause the video if you need some time to think, I'm going to move to the next slide to show you the potential answer choices, but I don't have enough room to show you the image. So here are your potential answer choices. And if you need to review that imaging finding, go back to the last slide. But which of the following pathophysiologies is responsible for this presentation? A. Loss of airway musculature and airway dilation. B. Non-caseating granuloma formation. C. Dysfunctional alveolar destruction by elastase. D. BMPR2 gene mutation causing increased pulmonary vascular resistance. C. Diminished lung compliance due to respiratory syncytial virus. Again, pause the video if you need some time to think, or go back to this slide if you want to review the image. C. Dysfunctional alveolar destruction by elastase. Now, I'm going to give you the correct answer. The correct answer is choice B. Non-caseating granuloma formation. If you're not already familiar with this type of question, you're dealing with sarcoidosis. So let's go to the vignette and pick out what we needed to pay attention to in order to get the question correct. So symptoms wise, I give you fatigue, dry cough, shortness of breath, swelling in wrists and ankles, violaceous indurated plaques with superficial scaling prominently over the patient's nose. And then if we go back again, you see imaging here. And this imaging is really important. This shows bilateral hilar lymph adenopathy. So we put all this together and we can pretty safely conclude that we're dealing with sarcoidosis. So there are two big things in this question that point you in the direction of sarcoidosis. And I want to say when you're taking USMLE or COMLEX and you get a question which will force you into a differential as far as lung symptoms go, you're going to get a lot of overlapping symptoms, right? Cough, shortness of breath, fatigue, etc. So you really need to pick out what's important in order to get these questions correct. So in this case, I give you two really important findings. The first is lupus perneo. Now, if we go back to the vignette, you can see here that I say violaceous indurated plaques with superficial scaling most prominently over the patient's nose. And what that is, is a dermatological finding of sarcoidosis. This is what it actually looks like. And to be clear, it can be over the patient's nose or the patient's cheeks, usually over the patient's nose, but really anywhere in that distribution on their face. If you see this, this is pathognomonic for sarcoidosis. So that was the first big hint that I gave you. And then what really sealed the diagnosis was the imaging. And I'll go back to the image one more time. You can see here that I'm showing you bilateral hylar lymphadenopathy on a chest x-ray. Now, they could give you a chest x-ray. They could give you a CT scan, which shows hylar nodularity. But these are pretty much interchangeable. And if you get either the CT or the chest x-ray showing these findings, the test writer really wants you to pick sarcoidosis. And so in this test question, and I did this intentionally, I did not give you hypercalcemia. A lot of medical students are really used to getting hypercalcemia in the question in order to push them towards sarcoidosis. But I want you to be comfortable picking sarcoidosis if you don't get hypercalcemia, but you get other essentially pathognomonic findings. So that's really the reason that I wrote this test question. Now, a couple test-taking strategies. On your exam, if the test writer wants you to pick sarcoidosis, they're going to give you an African-American patient, generally a woman, in the roughly like 20 to 35 age range, okay? They probably will give you sequelae of hypercalcemia. They may give you erythema nodosum, which is another buzzword that shows up a lot. But again, the key to this question is recognizing that you're dealing with two findings that scream sarcoidosis, bilateral hylar lymphadenopathy on imaging and lupus perneo. So that was this test question. Again, lupus perneo and bilateral hylar lymphadenopathy. Now, let's go back to the question and ask ourselves, you know, theoretically, in an alternate reality, if we didn't know that those findings pushed us towards sarcoidosis, could we potentially eliminate incorrect answer choices based on what is present or not present in the question? And so let's go through the incorrect answer choices. So choice A, loss of airway musculature with airway dilation, that's describing bronchiectasis. Now, if they want you to pick bronchiectasis, chances are that the vignette is going to describe a smoker or if it's in another country, somebody with tuberculosis. They love to throw out the buzzword foul smelling sputum. They love to give you the physical exam finding of digital clubbing. And if they show you imaging, it'll probably show cystic dilation. And you're not really seeing any of this here. So we could probably eliminate answer choice A. Answer choice C, dysfunctional alveolar destruction by elastase. That is another way of describing what's happening in alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. And if they want you to pick alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, chances are they'll give you early onset emphysema or hepatic cirrhosis. Not really seeing evidence of that here. Coupled with the pathognomonic findings for sarcoidosis, we can eliminate answer choice C. Answer choice D, BMPR2 gene mutation. Now, I'll admit, when I wrote this question, I was thinking about stopping there and not even saying the second part of that sentence, which is causing increased pulmonary vascular resistance. But I want it to be really nice. So I did finish the sentence. If you see BMPR2 gene mutation, though, you really should know that that equals primary pulmonary hypertension. However, if the test writer wants you to pick primary pulmonary hypertension, they're going to give you some exam findings, which will generally include tricuspid regurgitation or allowed P2. And on exams, it's usually going to be a non-smoker. So if that's going to be the correct test question, it'll be a non-smoker because the test writer wants you to differentiate, oh, here is a non-smoking individual who happens to have this genetic abnormality, which causes these symptoms. However, those symptoms overlap with other potential lung symptoms, which come as a major risk factor being that the patient smokes. So look for the non-smoker with those specific exam findings. Again, in this question, we don't see any of that. We've got pathognomonic findings for sarcoidosis, so we can eliminate answer choice D. And then lastly, answer choice E, diminished lung compliance due to RSV. This was just a distractor. This is describing bronchiolitis. If the answer is going to be bronchiolitis on your exam, it's generally going to be a child, right? It'll be a PEDS patient. They'll have wheezing, which tends to be bilateral. They'll have fever. They'll give you probably some association or buzzword having to do with RSV. And the patient's going to have increased work of breathing. That's going to be what the test writer will highlight on your exam. Again, we're not seeing any findings of that. This is a 32-year-old patient. It's not a pediatric patient, so we can safely eliminate answer choice E. So big takeaway from this high-yield question. When it comes to sarcoidosis, yes, you could and probably will get hypercalcemia. Yes, you could and probably will get erythema nodosum. But be comfortable with those other, while high-yield, less common findings that seal the diagnosis for you because they can show up on your exams. Good luck.