A 30-year-old female undergoes spontaneous vaginal delivery of her first child. One hour later, the nurse notices that the patient is unresponsive and bleeding from her introvenous line. A rapid response is called and resuscitation attempts are initiated. Your secondary survey of the patient reveals evidence of multiple perpa, pitikier, and echimoses scattered throughout her body. The patient unfortunately expires. Which of the following sets of laboratory values are most consistent with the pathophysiology of this process? Now, this is one of those tables with, you know, normal and up and down arrows. So, I'm not going to read you A, B, C, D, and E, but you can see each of the rows with the possible answers here. So, I know this is a little more complex than my typical practice question. So, pause the video, take some time to think about this, and then I'll go through the answer in just a second. All right, I'm going to start to go through this question and I'm going to give you the correct answer now. So, pause the video if you need more time. The correct answer in this practice question is choice C. PT up, PTT up, fibbrronogen down, platelets down, and bleeding time up. Let's go through the question stem and pick out the the bits that you really should have paid attention to if you wanted to get this question right. So, what we notice in this question is that we've got a 30-year-old patient who just had a spontaneous vaginal delivery. And then about an hour later, she's bleeding. There's evidence of papura pitikier and echimosis. You should have picked up that the question was trying to tell you that the disease process here is DIC, also known as disseminated intravascular coagulation. Now, as a new part of all of my video question banks, what I did for those of you who really like to just read a paragraph and that's it. Here's your explanation. I'm I'm not going to read this to you. If you want to read this, pause the video and you'll get the classic explanation that you might see if you wasted your money on an actual question bank. But let's go through this question and and talk about clinical reasoning and talk about how you should have identified what was going on. So the first part of this question is is really understanding that the patient had disseminated intravascular coagulation. And once you knew that you needed to go through those answer choices and pick out the laboratory values that correspond to DIC. Now if you don't know how to do that, one of the ways you could have gotten this question right was to work backwards and eliminate possible answer choices based on what you knew was not DIC. And the question really is is what what else is there besides DIC that can present in a similar way? In other words, if you were a third or a fourth year medical student and you were in the actual hospital on the floors, what should have been in your differential diagnosis? Well, in this question, we're really thinking about DIC versus ITP versus TTP. These are the classic you know quote bleeding disorders that pop up and show evidence of bleeding on your exams. And for the purposes of USML or complex you need to know what you see on this table. How does PT and PTT change? How do platelets change? How does fibbrronogen change? How does D- dimer change? And what is the hisystologology that you'll see if it will be abnormal? Now, I'm going to fill in this table for you and then we'll go through this and kind of pick out what's how you differentiate these. So, here's all of the lab values that correspond to the three bleeding disorders. And and really what you'll notice is if we kind of take if we push DIC to the side for just one moment when it comes to ITP and TTP, you should notice as you see here in the orange um bordered area is that they're pretty similar. So in both ITP and TTP, the PT and PTT are both normal, if not slightly increased in the case of TTP, the platelets are decreased. In fact, platelets are decreased in all three of these bleeding disorders. So you don't really need to pay attention to what's happening to platelets. And if that's not intuitive enough, if you think about the name ITP and the name TTP, the T stands for thrombocytoenia, which means decreased platelets. So, it should be somewhat intuitive that platelets will be down. And you know, I know we said to kind of put DIC over to the side for a second, but platelets are down across the board. So, when you're ever looking at a practice question or a question on actual USMLE or actual complex, never look at platelets to get the answer right because they're going to it's going to be the same regardless of what's going on. So, take platelets out of your brain and just throw it in the trash can. Um now getting back to ITP versus TTP you'll notice that fibbrronogen is normal in both of them. You'll notice that D-dimer is normal in both of them. So really the only major difference between these two disease processes ITP and TTP is the hisystologology. You've got shistytes in the case of TTP but you have normal red blood cells in the case of ITP. So when you're differentiating those two there's not a lot that's different. So, when you get a practice question like the one that I gave you in the start of this video, what you'll notice is that ITP and TTP are quite different from DIC. I mean, just look at everything that's in the yellow or excuse me, the orange border and compare that to DIC. So, both ITP and TTP have basically normal PT and PTT, but in disseminated intravascular coagulation, PT and PTT are increased. Platelets are down across the board. So I told you to throw platelets out of your brain, but fibbrronogen that's down in DIC, whereas you know it's normal in everything else. Dimer is going to be increased in DIC, but it's normal in everything else. The one little hangup is that if they show you a picture of a shisty, you don't really know yet if it's DIC or if it's TTP because you see that in both disease processes. So, you kind of have to go to the next level and then look at your other lab values that they give you in order to differentiate them. But the point that I'm trying to make here is when you get a practice question and they show you a table like I did, you want to go through the obvious things that are different. So, your PTPTT, your fibbrronogen, and your dimer. And starting there and working your way down and eliminating answer choices that clearly are wrong is one way to get more points on test day. Now, as far as remembering what's actually happening in disseminated intravascular coagulation, which if you go back to my long typed out explanation is abnormal systemic activation of the coagulation cascade, you'll notice that it's basically just clotting everywhere in the body. And that's why you see the resulting labs that you find in DIC. So, the way to remember that is damn, I'm clotting. DIC stands for damn, I'm clotting. And I've actually got an awesome video that really goes in depth about the differences between all of these bleeding disorders. So I will uh refer you to that video if you want a more in-depth explanation. But DIC stands for damn I'm clotting. You've got clotting and micro throi forming all over the body which leads to the whole array of laboratory abnormalities that you see in the practice question. Now, let's go back to the actual practice question and use this kind of work backwards technique to see what we could have eliminated to make this question a lot easier. So, let's say that you read this question and you have a hunch that it's DIC. You're not positive because you get confused between all the bleeding disorders, but you know that you know the fact that they had a vaginal delivery probably tells you that there's some abnormal clotting going on. So, let's say that you're just taking a guess and you think it's DIC, but you don't exactly remember all of the laboratory values of DIC, but you remember some. So, what can you eliminate? Well, looking at our possible answer choices, what you'll notice is that platelets and bleeding time, you know, the answers for all of these are down for platelets and up for bleeding time. So, mentally, just cross them out. You're not even going to look at those columns because that's not going to help you get the right answer. The way that you could approach this is to look at PT and PTT. And if you remember in DIC that PT and PTT are both increased, what you basically find is that right off the bat, you're choosing between choice C and choice E because obviously these are the only two answer choices that have up arrows for both PT and PTT. So even if you in some hypothetical world didn't know how fibbrronogen changed in disseminated intravascular coagulation but you were just able to memorize that the PT and PTT are both increased you'd already be able to narrow down this question to A-50% chance of getting it right. And A-50% chance is pretty impressive on USML and complex if you otherwise have no idea what you're doing in a particular question. But since we're talking about DIC, you should recall that fibbrronogen, which is an acute phase reactant over time will be decreased in DIC. So when you're looking at choice C versus choice E, you would make the correct choice by picking C and getting this question right. Now, I don't know how picky the test writers will be on USML and complex, but there are a lot of abnormal causes or or seemingly un um unpopular or lesserk known causes, if you will, of DIC. And if we just go back to my slide with the explanation, what you'll see here is that obstetric complications are one of those rarer causes of disseminated intravascular coagulation. And what that the cause of that is that there's something called tissue thromboplastin in amniotic fluid. And it's the exposure of that tissue thromboplastin to the immune system that causes the abnormal activation of the clotting system and causes DIC. Uh again not sure how annoying if you will the test writers will be but if they wanted to go after DIC through the lesserk known mechanisms they might also give you adnocarcinoma or acute promyocitic leukemia um in those cases it's due to mucin in the case of adnocarcinoma causing DIC and in the case of acute promyioic leukemia it's due to primary granules uh but usually DIC showing up on USM or comlex will be due to sepsis or some form of infection. So, it's usually the infectious cause. But be aware that there are other rare lesserk known causes of DIC and there's a lot of different ways that test writers can go after it. That's it for today's practice question. I hope that this was useful to you. Again, just to summarize, the idea here is that when you're looking at a table with the up down arrows, you want to be able to eliminate answer choices based on what you know. And oftentimes if you only know one of the lab values, that's enough to get you, you know, get your answer down between about two or three possible answer choices.