 ethan et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et et of fatigue, sweating, and dizziness after several weeks of increased exposure to chemicals used in his work environment. He has been handling a variety of manufactured dyes and wood preservatives. On exam, his temperature is 38.2 degrees Celsius, which is 100.8 degrees Fahrenheit, and he is noted to have a rapid bounding pulse. Laboratory studies reveal an elevated blood lactate level, and arterial blood gas analysis shows metabolic acidosis with a normal anion gap. Which of the following best describes the mechanism of action of the causative chemical in this patient? A. Inhibition of ATP synthase in the mitochondria. B. Disruption of electron transport by inhibition of complex IV. C. Inhibition of glycolysis. D. Inhibition of fatty acid oxidation. Or E. Uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation. If you want some time to think about this and work through the problem in your head, pause the video now, because I'm going to give you the correct answer. The correct answer to this practice question is choice E, uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation. What you're dealing with in this question is 2,4 DNP poisoning, which is 2,4 dinitrophenol poisoning. Now, if you look at the vignette here, what you needed to pick out is what I highlighted in red. First, we have some symptoms. Fatigue, sweating, dizziness, and fever. Additionally, I threw in some extra things like blood lactate elevation and metabolic acidosis with a normal anion gap. But to be honest with you, you didn't even need that information. Because the most important part of this question is knowing the occupational exposure to the chemical. And so, I've bolded and underlined it for you. Manufactured dyes and wood preservatives combined with all of the symptoms and the possible answer choices has to push you in the direction of choice E. Manufactured dyes and wood preservatives contain 2,4 dinitrophenol. Okay? 2,4 dinitrophenol. It's used in manufactured dyes, wood preservatives. I don't think the test writer will go here, but it's actually also used as a pesticide. And it's also used in an indicator which detects potassium and ammonium. Those last two things, highly doubt you ever get a test question on that, but I'm just including it here for completeness sake. So, let's do like a brief refresher and summary of this chemical just so you're not caught off guard if this ever shows up on your exam. So, again, 2,4 dinitrophenol. It dissipates the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. So, the answer choice could say this or it could say what I wrote, which is that it uncouples oxidative phosphorylation. When you do this, right? When you uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, this causes metabolic insufficiency. Specifically, it increases oxygen consumption and heat production. In the short term, that causes sweating, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, an excessive amount of weight loss, and it generally increases metabolism. Over the long term, this can cause the formation of skin lesions, cataracts. It can cause problems with the bone marrow. It can cause neuropsychiatric symptoms. And in severe cases, it can cause cardiovascular collapse. Because of all of these symptoms, it actually can be abused most often by bodybuilders. This is a really rare test question. I doubt you get this, but just know because of its metabolic changes, bodybuilders abuse it to lose weight. Now, one way that you can remember this is 2,4-DNP causes oxidative phosphorylation to uncouple and does not produce. So, that DNP in my brain, that stands for does not produce. What does not produce? Oxidative phosphorylation does not produce when it uncouples. So, that's a little mnemonic if you need the help. But let's go back to our test question here. Let's say that you were sitting for USMLE or COMLEX. You didn't know that manufactured dyes and wood preservatives meant 2,4-DNP. But maybe you know some other things that inhibit other answer choices here. Could you have possibly worked backwards if you were a high-yield test taker? And the answer is probably. So, let's go through this. Choice B, disruption of the electron transport by inhibition of COMLEX-4. So, COMLEX-4 is inhibited by carbon monoxide. And so, if you know that and then you look at this test question, the question that you would be asking yourself is, do I see an exposure to carbon monoxide here? The answer is no. Choice C, inhibition of glycolysis. So, recall that glycolysis is inhibited by high levels of ATP, by high levels of citrate through feedback inhibition, or in states of insulin deficiency. In this test question, we don't see any evidence of any of this. So, we could probably eliminate choice C. Choice D, inhibition of fatty acid oxidation. That's going to be inhibited by elevated milonyl-CoA, by methylmalonic acid acidemia, or in states of carnitine deficiency. But again, there's no evidence that any of this exists just by looking at the vignette. And then choice A is just a distractor. Inhibition of ATP synthase, that's just a distractor. So, because we don't really see any of that stuff here, and the question is squarely focused on a chemical in manufactured dyes and a chemical in wood preservatives, you could probably eliminate all of answer choices A through D. And then just by the process of elimination, pick choice E. Again, that would be if you didn't know that manufactured dyes in wood preservatives contain 2,4-dinitrophenol. So, that's the high yield test question for today. Keep up the great work.