A 31-year-old Hispanic female comes to the office for a routine wellness checkup. She has a childhood history of mild intermittent asthma. She was last seen 4 months ago for a depression screen after she had her third spontaneous abortion. Today you review her lab work, which is remarkable for the following. Her white blood cell count is 8.7. Her hemoglobin is 11.9. Sodium is 135. her potassium is 4.2 and a rapid plasma reagent is positive. Okay, so pause the video if you want to review the vignette and review the the labs that are given to you. But the way that I'm going to write this question is actually a threepart question. So that's right, ladies and gentlemen. You get three questions today for the price of one. So part one of three. Which of the following tests should be ordered next? A fluorescent trepmal antibbody absorption test, B urine pregnancy test, C ur analysis, D complete blood count, or E veneerial disease research laboratory test. Now, if you want to review the vignette again and look over the lab some more, then pause the video now because I'm going to start to break down this question and and cue you into what you should be looking for. All right, so let's go. So, the first thing that you should notice in this vignette are what I've highlighted in red. So, this patient has had three spontaneous abortions. Now, it doesn't matter over what time frame those have occurred. The point is is that anytime you see more than one really on an exam, your brain should start to work and be like, hm, what are they trying to tell me here? What are they hinting at? The other thing that you should notice is that the rapid plasma reagent test is positive. So, the RPR, which tests syphilis, is positive. Now, interestingly, this question didn't tell you anything about her sexual history. And if a test writer was going to write a question about syphilis, and they were going to actually truly push you in the direction of, hey, this patient has syphilis, they would have given you some clues about unprotected sex, about associated symptoms. But notice that in this question, there's none of that. We just throw in an RPR that's positive. So, there's definitely something fishy here, and your brain has to be able to recognize what's going on. Notice also that this patient is 31 years old and that's a very very high yield age in practice questions on your exams. If you have any woman or man between the ages of 20 to 45, this is what I'm going to call the autoimmune window. So between 20 and 45 is the perfect age range whereby patients can suffer from autoimmune disease. So, it's not to say that every single patient who's between the ages of 20 and 45 is definitely going to have an autoimmune disease on your exam. But if that happens to be the patient's age, then you want to pay, you know, very special attention to what the question is describing because there's a good chance it could be an autoimmune disease process, right? Think about the alternative scenario. If they want to give you somebody with really bad hypertension and clotted arteries and all that stuff, they're going to probably give you somebody who's in their 70s, who's obese, who has other risk factors that are going to point you in the direction of really bad vasculopathy. But in this case, look at the question. It's a young female. She's had three abortions, spontaneous abortions, and she's got a randomly positive RPR without any other mention of any sex stuff. So something is going on here and your brain has to recognize what disease the question is hinting at. So part one of three asks you which of the following tests should be ordered next. Are you guys familiar with what's going on here? Well the answer is a the FTA ABS also known as the fluorescent trepmal antibbody absorption test. So this patient has anti-cardiolipin antibbody syndrome which is associated with lupus. Now folks with anti-cardiolipin antibbody syndrome tend to have recurrent thrombosis and recurrent abortions because they're constantly throwing clots because of this autoimmune process that's associated with lupus. Now what's really really high yield here is to understand that in patients who have an anti-cardioipin antibbody syndrome they get a false positive rapid plasma reagent. And the whole point of this question is kind of twofold. One, it's to make you recognize that in somebody of an autoimmune age, which again is like 20 to 45, who has three abortions, you need to be thinking, hm, that RPR is probably not real. It's a false positive. Then the question is written because you need to know what to do next. This is actually really high yield. Anytime you see a positive RPR and you're not sure if it's true lupus or excuse me it's true syphilis or not, you have to order the fluorescent trepmal antibbody absorption test also known as the FTA-abs. So you have to confirm or effectively rule out whether or not this is true syphilis. So your brain should be running here guys. You need to recognize this is anti-cardipin antibbody syndrome. This lady probably has lupus. She's had three abortions. She's in that autoimmune age range and there's really nothing else here to suggest that this would be true syphilis. So, it's probably anti-cardip and antibbody syndrome with a false positive RPR. So, part one of three is to recognize anti-cardip and antibbody syndrome, know the features of it, and know that you need to get the FTA abs to confirm or rule out the RPR, which is very likely a false positive. So, that's part one of part three. You don't need to get a urine pregnancy test because, you know, there's no reason to suggest that she's pregnant. And you don't just get urine pregnancy tests on every single patient every single time they walk in the door. Despite what you read in textbooks, that's not the correct answer. Urinalysis, there's no reason to to believe in this situation that she has a urinary tract infection or any other disease process that would make you get a urinalysis. So, that's low utility. as a as a theme on USMLE and Comlex, you're never going to order something just for the sake of defensive medicine or just to rule something out. You have to be cost effective and do right by your patients. So, your analysis is incorrect. There's no reason to get a complete blood count because if you look, we've already got a white blood cell count and a hemoglobin. So, you know, presumably we've already ordered a complete blood count. But even if you didn't know that those were parts of a CBC, there's no reason to order the complete blood count because after all, what are you looking for? And then E, veneerial disease research laboratory test, also known as VDRL. This is another test that can tell you about syphilis, but it can also, just like the RPR, have a false positive. So, there's no reason you would order that. You absolutely need to know that you order the FTA ABS, which is answer choice A, to confirm if you think that it's a false positive RPR or a false positive VDRL. So, that's part one of part three. Let's move on to part two. Which of the following accounts for the positive RPR seen in this patient? Now, sorry guys, I already gave this one away, but let's look through the answer choices here and kind of create the environment where you'll train your brain to recognize this on test day. So a lupus anti-coagulant, b anti beta 2 glyoprotein IGM, C anti beta 2 glyoprotein IGG, D anti- doublestranded DNA antibbody, or E anti-cardiolipin antibbody. So we've already talked about this. The answer is obviously E. This is associated with lupus. But the reason that I put part two in here is to hammer something home. On test day, they're going to throw other antibodies in the answer choices that are really sexy looking, right? Like I bet you if I didn't give away the answer, a lot of people would have picked answer choice D because in their head they're saying, "Oh, this is lupus, so it's double stranded DNA." But that's technically incorrect because the reason that you get the positive false positive RPR or the false positive VDRL, it has nothing to do with the doublestranded DNA antibody for lupus. It has to do specifically with the anti-cardipin antibody of anti-cardipin antibbody syndrome associated with lupus. So on test day, don't just jump for the first antibbody that's associated with the disease process. Make sure you get the specific antibbody. We're not talking about the most sensitive antibodies. We're talking about the most specific ones specific to the disease process. So in this case, we're talking about recurrent spontaneous abortions, which is a beautifully high yield term that needs to tell your brain, hey man, we're talking about anti-cardipin antibbody syndrome. So answer choice E is correct for part two. Part three, which pathophysiologic change is responsible for the spontaneous abortions? Okay, so now we're going to get into a little nitpicky stuff here. I'm asking you, what's the pathophysiology specifically in anti-cardiolip and antibbody syndrome that causes these patients to have recurrent spontaneous abortions? So you got to know your physiology here. You got to know your pathophys. A, auto antibodies reacting against clotting factors. B. Auto antibodies reacting against red blood cell membranes. C. Auto antibodies reacting against platelet membranes. D. Compliment mediated intravascular coagulation. Or E. Compliment mediated endothelial destruction. So, ooh, tricky question, dirty tricky question, you rat bastard. All right, so if you want some time to think about this, pause the video. But if you know, if you don't, you're either going to know this or you're not. So hopefully this this uh video will help you never get this wrong again. So the answer that's correct here is C. Auto antibodies reacting against platelet membranes. So these auto antibodies, these anti-cardiolypin antibodies actually can crossreact against the membrane of platelets. And when that happens, you're going to get activation of endothelial cells. And these platelets that are going to have their membranes disrupted will accumulate and cause clots. So the true most correct answer here is that these auto antibodies are destroying the platelet membranes and they're actually activating the platelet membranes causing endothelial disruption. So E choice E sounds good but it's not compliment mediated. Certainly compliment will further contribute to endothelial problems. But the most correct answer here and the reason um the precipitating factor that kicks off these clots forming that causes clots in the vascule going to the fetus and causing abortions is answer choice C. Auto antibodies reacting against platelet membranes. Okay. So this is very very high yield. Know that it's the platelet membrane disruption that causes clots and causes activation of endothelial cells. That was the whole reason that I wrote part three of three. So you got to know your physiology for step one and level one. It's extremely high yield. So high yield bottom line guys. And the reason that I spent a lot of time writing this question, couple points to take away. One, lupus is associated with anti-cardip and antibbody syndrome. In the vignette, look for the patients who have clots, thrombosis, recurrent abortions. Look for someone in an autoimmune age range. So 20 to 45. Look for a young female. Typically on exams she'll be Hispanic but you know could be any color or ethnicity. This is due to antibbody reactions against platelet membranes. So we just talked about this in part three of three. This activates endothelial cells and platelets and causes clots. The clots in the vascule are what are responsible for the recurrent spontaneous abortions. If you get lab printouts, which we didn't go through in this question, the labs will show a prolonged DRVT, a prolonged PTT, a normal bleeding time, a normal platelet count, and a normal or slightly increased PT. So, be familiar with those findings because they can sort of help you differentiate between anti-cardipin antibbody syndrome versus other things that derange your uh bleeding times, etc., etc. Lastly, remember that anti-cardiipen antibbody syndrome is associated with false positive RPR and VDRL. If you get an RPR or a VDRL that is positive and you don't really think this is actually syphilis because the question didn't mention any sex stuff, then the next best test to order is the FTA ABS. You rule it out or you rule it in. So guys, that's it. This is a very high yield concept on test day. Please be familiar with lupus, anti-cardiolipin antibbody syndrome and the false positive tests that it can cause.