So, we have a 59year-old Hispanic male and he comes to the emergency department complaining of chest pain. An electroc cardiogram is obtained and it shows ST segment elevation in the inferior leads. The patient is treated immediately. 48 hours later, which of the following squle is he most at risk for developing? So, A fibbrinous pericarditis, B pseudo aneurysm, C mural thrombus, D freewall rupture, or E D dress Drestler syndrome. So, if you haven't already studied all of first aid or all of the review source and content that you're going to be looking through, you might not know what's going on here, but the key is what's highlighted in red. So you're told that an ECG, an electroc cardiogram, shows ST segment elevation in the inferior leads. And that's just another way of saying that this patient is having a mocardial infuction. So a heart attack. And then within 48 hours, they're asking you what complication of a heart attack might you expect to see. So what this question is going after is where is the you know what evolution of the myioardial infuction might you see? And it's in it's very high yield. Very important to understand that how you know how complications arise after a moardial inffection over a two week period because depending on how far along that twoe window you are, you can expect to see different complications, different evolution of the cardiac pathology and that's caused by different pathophys. And both of those concepts, the the pathology based on the timeline and the pathophysiology that leads to that pathology is incredibly high yield. And you could be asked different variations of something that you see here. So the first part of this question is to look at the timeline and figure out what complication you might see based on how far along we are. So in red, you see that we're 48 hours past the initial moardial inffection. So, you have to know what complication can you expect to find 48 hours later. Pause the video if you want some time to think about it. And if you're ready, here we go. The answer is fibbrronous paricarditis. And fibbrinous pericarditis is the evolution of the moardial inffection that happens 1 to 3 days after the initial insult, after the initial myioardial infuction. Now, let's go through B through E and I'll tell you why those are the wrong answers. So for B and D, B is pseudo aneurysm and D is free wall rupture. Both of those complications will occur at 3 to 14 days after the initial mocardial infarction. For C mural thrombus and E dress Drestler syndrome, these are both complications that occur at the two or more week mark. So in terms of how you can think about this mentally, you want to start to build this timeline and understand how things change over time. So the first part of this question and there's going to be a second question on the next slide is simply understanding the evolution of the mocardial infarction very very high yield and the high yield way of thinking here is to look at the question and pick out what's important. So again the fact that they're telling you that there's ST segment elevation is their way of telling you that there's an MI. So, as soon as you see that, your brain should start to to churn and think, what could they possibly ask me about a mocardial infuction and then they're see they're showing you that something's happening 48 hours later. So, clearly this is a question about evolution of a myioardial inffection and that's the direction that they're going in. Part two of the question says which of the following describes the pathophysiology responsible for the fibrous paricarditis seen after this myioardial inffection. So this question is saying what pathophysiology occurred to cause fibrous pericarditis 48 hours after the myioardial inffection. So a neutrfil mediated coagulative necrosis, B calcium mediated myophibbral hyper contraction, C macrofase mediated granulation tissue overlay, D completion of the post infarction scar tissue or E macrofase mediated structural degradation. Pause the video if you'd like some time to think about it and if you're ready, here we go. So the pathophysiology is actually the neutrfil mediated coagulative necrosis. So that is what's responsible for causing fibrous pericarditis because that neutrfilic that neutrfilic substance is causing an inflammatory response which causes pericarditis and remember that anything that ends with itis tis itis means inflammation and pericarditis is inflammation of the pericardial sac. And it's fibrous because of this neutrfilic inflammatory cascade. Now let's go through B through E and talk about why those are not the right answers and I'll tell you what they refer to. So choice B calcium mediated myophibbral hyper contraction is what's responsible for the ventricular arrhythmia that you can see within 24 hours of a myioardial inffection. When you have the myophibbrals that are pulling on each other and hyper contracting, it causes an arythmogenic response in the inherent cardiac tissue. So imagine if you held a microscope up to a heart and you zoomed all the way in on the myophibbral. If you had myophibbrals that were hyper contracting out of order and out of sync, that's to a larger extent that's just the heart being in arrhythmia. And specifically it's ventricular arrhythmia and it's done it happens because of too much calcium flowing in and causing the hyper contraction. So B is for the ventricular hyper uh arrhythmia because of myophibbral hyper contraction. C is macrofase mediated granulation tissue overlay and this is actually responsible for the free wall rupture. So when you put that granulation tissue down and you start to build your scar, you're actually acutely weakening the wall and when that happens you can rupture that wall and that's what's responsible for the free wall rupture. D says completion of the post infarction scar tissue and that's responsible for a true mural thrombus. So when that post infarction scar tissue gets laid down it's really a nitis on which a thrombus can build specifically in the mural area. So that is the pathophys for the for neural thrombus and then E says macrofase mediated structural degradation. This is very similar to choice C but this one is actually the intervententricular septum specifically. So when the structure of that septum gets broken down by macrofasages which are coming in again to kind of clean up an area that's been infforted and chew up dead tissue and chew up debris. You can weaken that interventricular septum and rupture it. So these are the different pathophysiologies. In blue you see what they cause and then you need to be able to correlate the pathophysiology to the cause to the timeline. So what's the high yield bottom line? The takeaway from this question is what you see in this chart. It is very high yield to know the evolution of a myioardial infuction which in layman's terms is what happens after a heart attack. Up to 24 hours you get ventricular arrhythmia because of myophibbral hyper contraction due to too much calcium. From 1 to three days you get fibbrronous paricarditis which is inflammation of the paricardial sack because there's so many neutrfils that are acutely responding to the mocardial infuction. From 3 to 14 days you get two things. One a free wall rupture and two a left ventricular pseudo aneurysm. This is due to granulation tissue and macrofasages coming into the area trying to clean up the infuction laying down the early granulation tissue which will eventually form the scar and then at two plus weeks you can get the mural thrombus and dresser syndrome and these are due to the actual scar formation that forms two weeks after the myioardial infarction. So that's it and I hope that this video was useful.