A 25-year-old female with no past medical history presents to her primary care physician complaining of loss of sensation in her lower extremities. The patient denies any other acute symptoms whatsoever. Vitals are all within normal limits. She takes no medications. There's a family history of hypothyroidism in her mother and type 1 diabetes melodis in her father. An MRI reveals areas of white matter demination. Which of the following are associated with the disease process in question? A. HLA DR2 B. HLA DR3 C HLA DR4 D HL A DR7 or E HL A B8. Pause the video now if you want some time to reread the question and to think about this because in just a second I'm going to give you the answer. The correct answer in this question is choice A. H L A D R2. Let's look back at the clinical vignette and highlight in red what you should have picked up in this question in order to start to formulate what the correct answer is here. So what you should pay special attention to is the loss of sensation in her lower extremities, the positive family history, and the MRI findings. Now, what I'm telling you in this question is that you've got the symptom of neuropathy, you have a family history of autoimmunity, and I gave you some classical imaging findings to help you really identify what the disease in question is. So, if you haven't put it together already, what this patient is experiencing is multiple sclerosis, also known as MS. Here's my long typed out explanation for MS. This is the type of explanation you would see if you wasted hundreds of dollars on a question bank. So, I'm putting this here for completeness sake, but basically MS if I were to summarize it and pull out the high yield bits of this explanation. It's an autoimmune disease marked by the autoimmune destruction of the myelin in the central nervous system. And myelin is of course responsible for sort of insulating the axons which helps them conduct their neural signals better. So when those undergo autoimmune destruction, you have problems transmitting nerve signals and therefore you get a whole host of neurological findings. The classic presentation is usually a female somewhere in the 20 to 30s range. That can be a bit wider, but that's what it typically is on a test. And the symptoms are what's called relapsing remitting. And what that means is that patients will typically experience some neurologic symptoms for a little bit and then the symptoms will go away and then they'll come back and then they'll go away and then they'll come back and that that fluctuation is called relapsing remitting and again it's a whole host of neurologic symptoms and this can present in you know a number of different ways but what you want to be paying attention to are the classical symptoms because on tests on USMLE and on comlex they're going to give you the classical symptoms because the question cannot be controversial or else it couldn't be on your exam. So look for problems with like lower extremity sensation oropathy or autonomic dysfunction. Those are the big ones. The MRIs, if they give you the picture or if they describe it to you, will show areas of white matter demisination. Lumbar puncture, if they do it, will show increased lymphosytes and increased amunoglobulins with olgocconal IGG bands. And that's a very big buzzword. So keep that in mind. If you were going to just kind of like blank on this slide and you only took away a couple things, remember relapsing, remitting neurologic symptoms and then the findings on the MRI and the lumbar puncture. Now, MS is associated with HLA DR2, which is the whole point of this question. The question was written to really trick you into looking at A, B, C, D, and E and thinking to yourself, A, do I know that this is multiple sclerosis? And then B, am I able to identify the correct answer here and make the autoimmune association? And this is tricky because on test day, all of these different HLA, you know, DR2, DR3, DR4, etc., they're all associated with different diseases. So, let me pause for a second and go over the way to approach this question. And if you were taking this on USML or COMMLEX um and you didn't know that this was or you knew that the question was describing multiple sclerosis, but you weren't quite sure which HLA multiple sclerosis was associated with. How could you approach this question differently? Well, what you could do is you could work backwards. In other words, you look at the answer choices and in your head or on a piece of paper, you write down what diseases you know are associated with A, B, C, D, and E. And by the process of elimination, you could then make an informed guess as to which one might be associated with multiple scerosis because you just don't quite know that it's associated with anything else. So let's go through and first write in the diseases that are actually associated with the incorrect answers in this question. So choice B, HLA DR3, that's associated with both lupus and good pasture syndrome. Choice C, HLA DR4, that's associated with type 1 diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis. Choice D, HLA DR7 is associated specifically with nefertic syndrome. And then choice E HLA B8 is associated with both Graves disease and myastthenia gravis. Now, of course, in order to know that the question was not describing one of these diseases, you would in turn have to know what these diseases would look like in the vignette if they were to describe them. In other words, if there was a different question that wanted you to pick answer choice B and they wanted to go after good pastor syndrome, they'd have to describe that to you. So, let me just take one moment to go over like incredibly briefly what those diseases would look like. So for good pasture syndrome, remember you'd have hemoptsis, lung disease, and the finding of anti-glomeular basement membrane antibodies. And of course, none of that's in this vignette. So that couldn't possibly be the answer. And therefore, it's associated disease or its associated HLA, which is DR3, is incorrect. For diabetes malitis type 1, usually it would present in someone who doesn't know that they have it or someone who's like in an exacerbation with diabetic keto acidosis, also known as DKA. And they'd look like, you know, abdominal pain, vomiting, keonura, they'd have a gapped metabolic acidosis with hypercalemia. They'd probably give you some labs in the actual question to to, you know, move you in that direction. But because there's none of that, that's not the correct answer. And therefore, HLA DR4 is not the correct answer. uh for nefratic syndrome remember that the patients will have proteinoria, hypoalumanmia, hyper lipidmia, they possibly could have fatty casts, they'll be hypertensive, they'll have edema and they might describe frothy urine. Again, none of these findings are in this clinical vignette and therefore HLA DR7 not the correct answer. Finally, remember from myastenia gravis that you have that classic fatiguable weakness and people get a little caught off guard when that term comes into play. And what that means is that with repeated use of a certain muscle group, it gets harder and harder to use the muscle group. Okay? And that's in contrast to Lambert eaten syndrome which is the opposite. And I have a video on the difference between myia gravis and Lambert eaten syndrome. See my neuromuscular junction video to really go in depth in that conversation. But for my senior gravous you would look for a patient with the fatiguable weakness. They might havetosis, diplopia or bulbar symptoms. Again, none of that's in this question and therefore HLA B8 is not the right answer. So if you were working backwards and you approached the question exactly as I just did, you could probably make you could probably eliminate some of these answer choices because you'd say to yourself, well, they're not describing good pasture, it can't be B. They're not describing lupus, it can't be B. They're not describing diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis, it can't be C. They're not describing nefertic syndrome. Couldn't possibly be D. I think that myia Gravis is HLA B-8. This patient doesn't sound like they have that. They're certainly not describing Graves disease. So, you're eliminating these answer choices. And then you look at this question. All you have left is HLA DR2 and you say, "Okay, maybe multiple sclerosis is associated with that and that's just a fact that I didn't know." So, that's how you work backwards. And that is the skill of being an amazing test taker. when you sit on USMLE and COMMLEX and you're ready to dominate these exams. That's it for today's practice question.