So, let's get into practice question number three in the high yield video QBank series. A 59-year-old white male with a past medical history of insulin dependent type 2 diabetes melodis, hypertension, hyper lipidmia, glaucoma, and peripheral vascular disease presents to your office with multiple complaints. He endorses burning pins and needles in his toes, dysmnia on exertion, and intermittently blurred vision. His hemoglobin A1c is measured to be 12.7. His random glucose test reveals a blood glucose of 317 mg per deciliter. Which of the following pathophysiologic changes are primarily responsible for this patient's blurred vision? A. Age precursor production. B. PKC pathway overactivation. C. Destruction of swan cells. D. conversion of glucose to sorbatl or e increase hexosamine pathway activity. Okay, so if you want to think about this a little bit more before I start to break it down, then pause the video now because I'm going to start to show you how you should approach this high yield question. So what you see here in red is really important. What they're telling you is that this patient has incredibly uncontrolled diabetes. So the hemoglobin A1c is 12.7, random glucose is 317, and then the question's asking you what is the pathophysiology responsible for the blurred vision. So the question already sort of told you that the patient has type 2 diabetes. They even said that it's insulin dependent. So you know that it must be pretty uncontrolled. But if you weren't sure what kind of disease pathophysiology the question was going after, you'd have to look at the vignette and see what they're giving you. So, the first part of this question, and it may seem obvious at first, but I think it's worth reviewing, is understanding the criteria for diabetes. Because the questions won't always be so clear. You won't always know that they're talking about diabetes. Sometimes you'll have to look at the criteria, meaning look at the A1c, look at the blood glucose, and determine, does this patient qualify for having diabetes? So, I think that the the first place to begin to make sure that you're comfortable with this type of material is to talk about the criteria for diabetes. So the American Diabetes Association diagnoses diabetes based on these criteria. So if a patient has a random blood glucose greater than or equal to 200, they have diabetes. If they have a fasting blood glucose greater than 125, meaning 126 or more, they have diabetes. If their hemoglobin A1c is greater than 6.4%, so 6.5 or above, they have diabetes. And if they do a two-hour glucose tolerance test and the result of that test is a blood glucose greater than 200 then yes they have diabetes. So you should be familiar with this criteria. Again in this practice question it's very clear that the patient has uncontrolled diabetes because the A1c and the random glucose are super high. And if you also you know should have noticed that the other diseases listed are all comorbid conditions with uncontrolled diabetes. So high blood pressure, high cholesterol, glaucoma, and peripheral vascular disease. So this patient is what we might call a vasculopath. So somebody whose arteries and veins are just absolute crap. So now the question is, what is the pathophysiologic change responsible for this patient's blurred vision? And it should be no surprise to you that all of the answer choices A through E are different types of pathophysiology that occur in complications of diabetes. So what you're tasked to do in this question is to figure out which one of these is going to cause blurred vision. So you do need to understand the pathophysiology of diabetes. That's the second part of this high yield question. Everybody thinks that they understand diabetes until they get a question about pathophysiology. The questions are not going to be as simple as type 1 versus type two diabetes. You know, I'm sorry guys, it's just not going to be that simple. You need to understand the different pathophysiology and what complications those lead to. So the correct answer in this question is D. The conversion of glucose to sorbital. Now D the conversion of glucose to sorbital is mediated by altase reductase. So when there's a ton of glucose floating around in the body altoace reductase will take that glucose and convert it to sorbatl. The problem is that when you convert glucose to sorbital, sorbital gets trapped inside of cells. So you get osmotic buildup of a material inside of a cell that shouldn't be there. And when there's osmotic buildup of an abnormal product in a cell, you get changes like blurred vision in the cells of the eye. So that is the primary pathophysiologic change mediating this patient's blurred vision. But just to show you why the other answers are not correct, let's go through them one at a time. So choice A, age precursor production causes pro-inflammatory cytoine production. So these ages, these A, these advanced glycosillation endroducts, they get produced because there's more glucose floating around in the body. And when those AES are produced, they lead to pro-inflammatory cytoines. And those pro pro-inflammatory cytoines lead to vascular damage because they're creating a pro-inflammatory state. Anytime there's inflammation in the body, you get vascular damage. Anytime you get vascular damage, you get complications of diabetes. It can be microvascular complications or it can be macrovascular complications. Now the reason that a is not the best answer in this question is because blurred vision is a predominant consequence of osmotic buildup of sorbital. So while age precursor production creating this pro-inflammatory pro-inflammatory environment definitely does contribute to diabetic complications, it's not the primary pathophysiology responsible for blurred vision. Choice B is PKC pathway overactivation. So protein kynise C pathway will be overactivated in the presence of high glucose levels. So diabetics get hypoglycemic which means there's too much glucose and when that happens the PKC pathway is overactivated and when the PKC pathway is overactivated you have a decrease in N O which is a vasoddilator and you have an increase in endothelin 1 which is a vasoc constrictor. So because this PKC pathway is shunting the blood vessel and the vascule in the direction of vasoc constriction you get decreased blood flow to your end organs and you get micro and masco mac excuse me micro and macrovascular complications. Again, the reason it's not the correct answer in this question is because while it definitely does contribute to diabetic complications, the sorbital and osmotic buildup is really what's causing blurred vision, but the PKC pathway overactivation does cause vasoc constriction and diabetic complications. Choice C is the destruction of Schwan cells. So, just like any cell in the body, nervous cells require an adequate amount of blood flow. And in the presence of a ton of glucose, there's just way too much viscosity in the blood vessel that feeds that nerve. So the nerve cells and the Schwan cells will actually die. And this is what actually causes peripheral neuropathy. So the destruction of Schwan cells causes peripheral neuropathy in our uncontrolled diabetics. Choice E is increased hexosamine pathway activity. So when normally the excess glucose load will be processed by glycolysis but some of the products in the glycolysis pathway as the body's trying to accommodate this abnormally elevated glucose actually get shunted into the hexosamine pathway. And when that happens you're going to get alteration of gene expression. And specifically you're going to get alteration of gene expression for glomeular cells. So one of the reasons that you get diabetic nephropathy or diabetic kidney damage in layman's terms is that you have this hexosamine pathway causing abnormal gene expression in genes that are responsible for glomeular uh gene expression. Okay. So there's a lot of different pathways here that kind of have a lot of crossover. You see the common theme here is that there's problems with the vascule, there's problems with vasoc constriction, you're in a pro-inflammatory state, there's death of nervous cells, and there's alter gene expression. And while all of these complications and all of these pathophysiologies can definitely contribute to each other, the reason that the answer to this specific question is D is because for blurred vision, that is a squle of osmotic buildup of sorbital. So please understand the age precursor pathway, the PKC pathway, the conversion of glucose to sorbital through the altase reductase pathway and the increased shunting of hexosamine pathway. All of those are incredibly high yield pathophysiologies responsible for the complication of diabetes. So bottom line and the reason that I wrote this question as practice question number three is that everybody thinks they can answer diabetes questions until they get a really nitty-gritty pathofizz question. As you can see this is pretty difficult and it under it requires you to understand four different pathways. Remember aldelase reductase converts the increased level of glucose to sorbital causing osmotic damage in the eye and other tissues. The hexosamine pathway is trying to compensate for glycolysis's inability to handle all of the glucose and in doing so gene expression specifically in the glomemeulus gets altered. Hyelin arterioclerosis we haven't talked about this yet but this is responsible for the macrovascular complications of diabetes. the PKC pathway will be overactivated which causes the body to want to move in the direction of vasoc constriction because there's increased endothelalin one production and decreased N O production and N O is a vasoddilator so you get decreased vasoddilators and increased vasoc constrictors that clamps down on the blood supply to things like the eye the kidney the nervous tissue so in all of those situations you have problems with blood flow you have microvascular complications And finally, Schwan cells get destroyed which causes peripheral neuropathy. So the point of high yield video question bank problem number three was to make sure that you guys understand the pathophysiology of diabetic complications.