 hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard months. She describes it as, quote, I am unable to get comfortable. The symptoms improve minimally with brief movement. Her partner reports that the patient has involuntary dorsiflexion of her feet while sleeping. A full neurological exam is normal, and the patient has no past medical history. Question one of the two questions, so part one. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial tests to order? A, electromyography. B, polysomnography. C, MRI of the lumbar spine. D, nerve conduction study. Or E, serum ferritin level. Pause the video if you want some time to think about it. And here we go. So question one, the answer is E, serum ferritin level. What you're dealing with in this vignette is known as restless legs syndrome. And I think we should probably start by just doing a brief overview of restless leg syndrome and then explaining the answer choices. So restless leg syndrome is going to show up on your exam in typically a middle-aged female who feels this urge to move their legs at night. Sometimes this is relieved when the patient moves their feet or moves their legs. A lot of times there's involuntary dorsiflexion. So if you see that buzzword on your exam, they're screaming restless leg syndrome at you. But this is worse in the evening, worse when the patient gets in bed, worse if they're not wearing socks. And it tends to be associated with two big things on exams. One is iron deficiency, as this question is alluding to. And the other is Parkinson's disease. Now to be clear, it can be associated with lots of other pathologies in various different organ systems. So it can be associated with diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, psychiatric disorders, inflammatory bowel disease. But on your exam, if they want to go high yield, they're going to give you either iron deficiency or Parkinson's disease. And the thing to know about iron deficiency is that if they give you labs, it's not even helpful because the iron deficiency can be plus or minus anemia. So if they give you a hemoglobin that's normal, that doesn't mean that you don't pick answer choice E. And I want to point that out because a lot of people get really confused about that. Just because you have no anemia, that does not mean that you don't have iron deficiency. You still need iron studies. So question one, part one, you get the serum ferritin level. And a lot of times you'll see that that ferritin level will be low and therefore you can correct the ferritin level. Now let's look at the other answer choices. So electromyography or EMG, this is kind of more invasive testing. This would be to rule out something like radiculopathy. And so we just don't do invasive testing as the initial test. So if you ever see the question, which of the following is the most appropriate initial test, don't ever pick something that's invasive. Now to that point, that's why answer choices blast and cruise are also incorrect. Polysomnography, this would be, you know, to rule out something like periodic limb movements of sleep, which can be associated with restless leg syndrome. But polysomnography is never going to be your initial test for something like restless leg syndrome. Likewise, an MRI is almost never going to be the correct answer on your exam for the initial test because it's expensive and you would want to start with something less expensive and less invasive if you were going to choose some type of imaging. And then choice D, nerve conduction study, this could be, again, a more invasive test along the lines of the EMG to rule out a radiculopathy. However, that's never going to be your initial test for something like restless leg syndrome. So big takeaway from question one, part one here is that if you have restless leg syndrome, you want to be thinking iron deficiency, plus or minus anemia, and Parkinson's disease. And then to that point, your initial test, you always want to get the ferritin because if you identify the iron deficiency, correcting the iron deficiency can improve symptoms of restless leg syndrome. Now let's go to part two. So question two, after lifestyle modifications, the initial treatment of choice involves which of the following? A, alpha-2 delta ligands, B, GABA-A receptor agonists, C, dopamine agonists, D, H1 receptor inverse agonists, or choice E, muscarinic receptor antagonists. So pause the video if you want some time to think about part two here. And then I will go ahead and give you the correct answer. So the correct answer to part two is choice A, your alpha-2 delta ligands. Now this is the mechanism. So I'm giving you different mechanisms as your answer choices. And this is a second or third order question because your brain has to work backwards and say, okay, so I might know that the treatment of choice for restless leg syndrome is gabapentin, but do I know what gabapentin's mechanism is? And that's why you, this is a more challenging question. So for restless leg syndrome, for most patients, if you're taking a guess here, the treatment of choice is going to be alpha-2 delta ligands. So those are things like gabapentin, pregabalin, et cetera. Answer choice B, GABA-A receptor antagonists, this refers to your benzodiazepines, clonazepam, lorazepam, et cetera. Now sometimes these are used on a short-term basis, but on your exam for restless leg syndrome, this is never going to be the correct answer because benzodiazepines create physical dependence, they're habit forming, so they're never going to be the initial treatment of choice for this condition. Answer choice C, your dopamine agonists, these would be things like pramipexol, ropinarol, et cetera. Now these are treatment options, however, for most patients, these are not the initial treatment of choice, these are your second line options. So you would try these if the gabapentin was tried and failed. So if the vignette said that, then you could pick answer choice C, but because the vignette, or because the question is asking for the initial treatment of choice, this question, this answer is incorrect. Answer choice D, H1 receptor inverse agonists, these are things like diphenhydramine. Now these could be used adjunctively to help with insomnia. However, this is really beyond the scope of this question and is not the correct answer. Answer choice E, muscarinic receptor antagonists, these are things like benztropine, et cetera. Also, this has nothing to do with restless leg syndrome, and therefore this is incorrect. So when it comes to restless leg syndrome, primary treatment, initial treatment of choice is usually going to be gabapentin, which is an alpha two delta ligand. And I want to be clear, and I'll mention this for completeness sake, that on your exam, the actual initial treatment of choice is lifestyle modification. But in my question here, I said after that, after lifestyle modifications. So if I didn't say that, then the answer would be lifestyle modification. And that would include things like getting exercise, sleep hygiene, removing things that might be exacerbating restless leg syndrome, like stimulants, like coffee, like alcohol. But after you do that, and after you've tested the ferritin and given iron supplementation if needed, after those lifestyle modifications, then the initial treatment of choice is always going to be gabapentin. So this was a two-parter. Hope it was helpful. Best of luck.