Okay, there's two parts to this question. So, it's technically two questions. So, the the question is, a patient with leukemia who has been undergoing treatment presents to the emergency department complaining of right-sided testicular pain. The pain is described as intermittent and radiates from quote the top down every 20 seconds end quote. So, that's what the patient is saying. The patient is writhing in bed and cannot seem to get comfortable. They are a febrile. A ur analysis is obtained which is positive only for microscopic hematia. Part one or question one. Which of the following is the correct diagnosis? A nephrolithasis, B urethritis, C. Pyo nephritis, D epidommitis, or E testicular torsion. Now if you want to think about this you can pause the video but I'm going to give you the correct answer and then we'll get into the discussion. So the correct answer in this question question one is nephrothasis right kidney stones. How were you supposed to deduce that this was the correct answer? Well when you look at the question the first thing that you'll notice is that the main complaint here is right-sided testicular pain. And probably or technically all of these answers A through E could cause right-sided testicular pain in one form or another. So in order to narrow your differential, you have to take out other bits of information from the question stem. The other important stuff is that it radiates from the top down every 20 seconds. So someone who has a kidney stone has classic radiating pain that starts from the top and works down toward the testicle. So it kind of starts out laterally near the top of the like mid to lower abdomen in the hypogastric area and then it radiates down medially toward the testicles. That's a that's a very classic description of the radiation pattern of uh kidney stone pain. But the most important thing probably in this question stem is that it says that the urinalysis was obtained which was positive only for microscopic hematia. And that's really important because you could probably eliminate a lot of these answer choices not by what's in the question stem but what's not in the question stem. So let's talk about that now. For your arthritis, if they wanted you to pick your arthritis, you would have gotten more symptoms like discharge, dysura, supraubic pain. There may or may not have been a fever. But the fact that the question definitively told you that the patient is aphibbrile is probably good enough for you not to guess one of the urinary tract infections. And then the other thing is that the uralysis in this patient only showed microscopic hemateria. It didn't show any white blood cells or anything else. So you can probably safely eliminate urethritis. For choice C, pyonfritis, 100% of the time on your exam, they're going to give you a fever. Right? No fever, no pyo. Just memorize that for USMLAN complex. 100% of the time if the patient gets pyon nephritis, they're going to have a fever. And this patient does have pain, but it's not necessarily CVA tenderness per se. So that's kind of irrelevant. But what I want you to take away from from this for answer C is that there's going to be a fever. And in this patient, there was no fever. So you probably is not pyonfritis. For choice D, epidommitis, you're going to have more symptoms. You're going to have dysoria. You're going to have that unilateral testicular pain which was in this question. But if they want you to go in the direction of epidomitis, they're probably going to talk about one of two things. One, they're going to talk about prrenine. Pren is basically a maneuver that the physician does where when you increase the when you elevate the scrotum, so you kind of just lift it up, the pain goes away. The fact that that sign was not given to you in the question stem, it doesn't definitively rule out epidommitis, but on a test they're going to give you that because it's such a high yield classic uh maneuver that you can do to discern epidomitis from something else like testicular torsion for example. The other thing that they'll talk about if they want you to think about epidomitis is they're going to talk about the cremaster reflex. And you'll notice that in this question stem there is no mention of whether or not there's a cremaster reflex. The reason that that's important is because when you when you have a differential for testicular pain, one way that you can figure out is this epidamitis, is this testicular torsion, etc., etc., is is that cremaster reflex there? And the fact that that's not in the question stem really makes it difficult for you to differentiate between epidomitis and testicular torsion and other testicular pathology. And for choice E, we sort of just talked about this, but for testicular torsion, you're going to get the testicular swelling. So you could have that unilateral testicular pain like you have in the question stem, but they're going to give you things like the cremaster reflex is absent and that they do a Doppler and it shows decreased blood flow in the affected testicle. The fact that none of that's mentioned is good enough for you to eliminate these answer choices. So the fact that all this stuff is not in the question stem plus the fact that the question describes the classic radiating pattern of a kidney stone and only microscopic hemateria being found in the urinalysis that should be enough for you to pick nephrolithasis. Now there's one other thing in this question that was actually really really really high yield. And the reason that I didn't talk about it is because it's it's going to set us up for part two here. So, question two says, "Which of the following microscopic descriptions of the patient's urine sample will be most accurate? A envelope-shaped, B, wedge-shaped prism, Coffin lid shaped, D romboid shaped, or E hexagonal shaped." Okay, so pause the video if you want to think about this one, but I'm going to start going through the answers now. So the correct answer here is romboid shaped. So this is a patient we've already discussed from part one of this question who has kidney stones. And the part that I left out that was really really high yield in question one to help you pick kidney stones is this right here. The patient has leukemia. And you're probably wondering what what why does that mean kidney stones? Well, we're going to talk about that right now. So patients who have leukemia, who are undergoing treatment, can have something called tumor licis syndrome. And we're going to go through very briefly what tumoris syndrome is and how that gives rise to kidney stones. So I want you to imagine that you have a cell. Now in real life, of course, there's thousands, if not millions of cells that are going to be targeted with chemotherapy. And I'm depicting the cell being targeted by chemotherapy with an orange star. And as the cell gets targeted by the the cancer therapy that cell starts to break down and ultimately it will lice. Hence the name tumor licis syndrome. When that cell lices it releases its intracellular contents which there are many but for the purposes of this discussion the ones you should remember are phosphate, potassium and nucleic acids. Now when the phosphate and potassium get released they cause two things. One, the phosphate causes hypocalcemia. And the reason for that is that all that phosphate binds to all that free calcium and it binds it together. So the calcium is not available to function in the blood like it normally would and therefore you get hypocalcemia and that elevated potassium level can cause cardiac arrhythmias. So if instead I had given you a question where it's a patient with leukemia, they're undergoing treatment, all of a sudden they have chest pain. and I show you an EKG and they're in ventricular fibrillation. The question might ask you, what's the mechanism of this happening? And the answer would be tumorlyis syndrome causing hypercalemia. You should memorize and know by now that any change in potassium, whether it's too much potassium or too little potassium can have effect on cardiac conduction. But the the meat of this question is understanding what happens with nucleic acids. So when nucleic acids get released from the cell that's targeted by chemotherapy, they float out and they actually get converted to uric acid. And go back to your biochemistry section if you need to understand how exactly that's happening. But when those nucleic acids get converted to uric acid, that uric acid cannot be processed by the kidney. Hence the little upset kidney image here. So what do we do? We need to treat tumor lis syndrome and we need to treat this excess uric acid that's building up in the body and in the case of question two is causing uric acid kidney stones. So what can you do? How do you treat tumorlyis syndrome? Well, in somebody who has a really high burden of uric acid building up in the body, you're going to use a medication called rasbicase. So this is another high yield point that I want you to take away from this practice question. And what rasbicase does is it takes that uric acid which cannot be processed by the kidney and it converts it to something called alentoin. And that alentoin can be processed by the kidney. Hence the little super excited kidney on the right. So you treat tumorlyis syndrome with raspier case that's extremely high yield. The other thing I just want to point out is that you can also treat this with alopurol but classically you would only use alopurol and patients who only have a little bit of complications from tumorlyis syndrome. So if it's only mild maybe you give them alopurol but if it's moderate or severe I I I do think that the recommendation is to give raspber case. So that's tumorlyis syndrome. And as a result of that happening, this patient who had leukemia had rhomboid-shaped uric acid stones because all of those nucleic acids came out or converted to uric acid and caused uric acid stones. Sometimes you'll see this written as uh urate nephropathy, uric acid neuropathy, uric acid stones, urate stones, doesn't matter. It's all the same pathophysiology. Now, let's briefly just run through the other answer choices here and talk about what shape those um what kind of stones those shapes are. So, for A, the envelope shape, those are your calcium oxalate stones. B your wedge-shaped prisms, those are your calcium phosphate stones. Coffin lid shaped, that's the ammonium mag phosphate stones, also known as the stags or the struite stones. and E hexagonal shaped are your cyine stones. And just for the purposes of thinking about what might have come up if they wanted you to pick any of these for the envelope shaped stones, the calcium oxalate ones, they're going to talk about a patient that either um overdosed on ethylene glycol or abuses vitamin C or maybe in some rare situations has Crohn's disease and the malabsorption causes these stones. Um, for B, there's really I I wrote boring because there's there's really no association. There's no clinical association. So, usually, don't quote me on this, but usually this will not be the answer and it won't really come up in questions because the test writers can't make an association with calcium phosphate stones like they can with all these other stones. For your ammonium mag phosphate stones, remember that these typically occur as a result of uras positive bacteria. Um, and then for your hexagonal shaped stones, your cyine stones, there's always going to be a family history. So, it'll be somebody who presents with the symptoms of a kidney stone, and they'll be like, you know, patients father has suffered from kidney stones in the past. And then what they're doing is they're pointing you in the direction of the cyine stone because this is genetically inherited. So, that's it, guys. That's a two-part question on kidney stones. I hope that this made sense to you. I hope that your brain is starting to recognize patterns and asking yourself, well, you know, if I don't know the answer, what might the question have had in it if they wanted me to pick A? What might the question have said in the vignette if they wanted me to pick B? And so on and so forth. If you liked this video, please give me a comment. Also, can can you guys subscribe? I don't know if you if you just watch my videos um without subscribing, but I kind of want to get to like a million subscribers to demonstrate to everybody else on the internet that premium and quality medical education can be free. Um, and one of the ways that we can get the channel out there more to more people and demonstrate that and hopefully set the the precedent that quality education should be free is by getting my subscriber count up so that I appear higher up in uh like YouTube searches and all that stuff. So, please subscribe, please comment, please like, and if you love my content and want to support the channel, click the Patreon link and throw a dollar or more if you feel like it my way. Love you all. Keep crushing it. Good luck.