Today's question says, "A three-month-old male is brought by his mother to the emergency department due to recurrent fevers. The child is at the 8th percentile for weight and the 11th percentile for height. According to his mom, the child is constantly fussy, has had several fevers in the first three months of his life, and goes through several diapers a day, which appear to be soaked with diarrhea. On exam, you note a frail appearing baby crying loudly. There is notable thrush on the baby's tongue. A review of his past medical history shows ED visits for bacterial, fungal, and viral infections. Genetic analysis is completed which reveals an autotosomal recessive cause. Which of the following is responsible for this patient's presentation? A. Defective IL2R gamma chain. B. Toxic accumulation of deoxyadenosine. C disordered B cell maturation. D defect in amunoglobulin class switching. Or E decreased serum and mucosal IgA production. Now if you want some time to reread the question or to think about it before I give you the answer, pause the video now. But I'm going to give you the answer. So the correct answer in this question is B. The toxic accumulation of deoxy adenosine. Let's go through the question stem and highlight things that are important to pay attention to in the clinical vignette. So the the stuff that you want to pay attention to is what's shown here in red. And if I sort of mark up what we're seeing here, it'll start to make sense as you pull out little bits of details. So, what you should notice is that the three-month-old male is between the ages of 0 to 6 months. The 8th percentile for weight and the 11th percentile for height is sort of alluding to failure to thrive. The fact that there are bacterial, fungal, and viral infections shows that the child's being infected by all types and excessive diarrhea is one of the prominent symptoms. So when you piece all of this information together, it should make you think of severe combined immuno deficiency also known as skid. Now obviously the question wants you to pick a mechanism that is the pathophysiology behind severe combined immuno deficiency. So a little bit about skid. It is a problem with both cell mediated and humoral immunity. Usually, it presents from zero to six months of age with recurrent fever, excessive diarrhea, and failure to thrive. Sometimes they'll say failure to thrive, but other times they'll just describe somebody who has lower percentile height and weight. Obviously, you're going to see all types of infections here because this is a problem with both cellmeed and humoral immunity. So, you would expect to see bacterial, fungal, and viral infections. And typically, unfortunately for these patients and their families, the life expectancy is usually no more than two years. The only way to give someone a quality of life is to just completely lock them off from any possible pathogen. So, you know, the the sometimes they are referred to as bubble babies because there's literally nothing else that you can do but sort of wrap them in a bubble and leave them in a totally germfree world. Now there are two causes of skid that you should memorize and understand. The first is the adenosine diaminase deficiency and the second is the gamma IL2R light chain defect and these differ in terms of what type of genetic inheritance they have. So the adenosine diaminase deficiency is an autotosomal recessive cause and the gamma2r light chain defect is an xl recessive cause. Now, we're going to talk specifically about the adenosine diaminise deficiency because this was in the question stem what the answer ended up being. So, I I told you in the question stem that this was due to an autotoal recessive cause and therefore it ruled out the gamma IL2R chain defect. But let's talk briefly about what an adenosine diaminise deficiency does and how that causes skin. So typically you've got your lymphosytes and in lymphosytes just like in all cells there's DNA and that DNA when it gets turned over gets broken down into deoxyadenazine. Now deoxyadenazine is toxic to white blood cells but under normal circumstances the enzyme adenosine diaminise comes along and removes the deoxyadenosine from the lymphosy. So it literally kicks it out. The problem here is that you have the adenosine deavinase deficiency. So when that enzyme gets knocked out, there's no removing the deoxyadenosine. And because deoxyadenazine starts to pile up inside of the cell, it becomes toxic to the lymphosy and knocks out the lymphosy. So when you knock out the lymphosy, you're going to get infections. So going back to our question, I told you that it was an autotoal recessive cause. So I described severe combined immuno deficiency and told you it was autotosomal recessive. So it has to be the toxic accumulation of deoxyadenazine because choice A while it is the cause of skid it is the XL recessive cause of skid. So a little nuance there. Let's go through C D and E and just talk briefly about what those are alluding to and maybe throw out a couple buzzwords that you would want to pay attention to in a different question. So for choice C the disordered B cell maturation that's X linked a gamma globulanmia which is due to a bruton tyrrosine kynise deficiency. In the question stem you're going to want to look for evidence of an infection and specifically an infection with an encapsulated organism. Choice D defect in amunoglobulin class switching refers to hyperIGM syndrome and the pathophysiology and hyperIGM syndrome is a CDL40 or a CD40R defect. Choice E, the decreased serum and mucosal IgA production is talking about IgA deficiency. And it's very high yield to recall that in an IgA deficiency, the test writers will normally tip you off to that by telling you that there are normal levels of IGG and IGM. So although IgA is down, IGG and IGM are not. So that is it for this question. I really hope that this was useful to you. Please understand the different pathophysiologic causes of skid. Understand how they're different and be able to remember which one is autoomal recessive and which one is XL recessive. Good luck. Please remember to subscribe. Check out my Patreon page if you want to give back. But that's all.