A patient is started on an unknown amunosuppressant agent. Weeks later, she returns to the clinic for follow-up and you note the following on physical exam. And there's a picture uh figure one. This is a two-part question. So, I'm actually technically giving you two high yield questions here. Part one of two. What is the mechanism of the drug given? A. Cyclopillanbound calcinuron inhibition. B. FK506bound calcinorin inhibition C. FKBP bound mTor inhibition D antim metabolite precursor of six mercaptopurine or E reversible inhibition of imp dehydrogenase. Pause the video if you want to think about this for a little bit, but I'm going to start to explain how we approach this question. So obviously getting part one of two correct hinges on your ability to recognize two things. One is that the the drug is an immunosuppressive agent and two is that this drug obviously causes some adverse drug reaction which you're seeing here in figure one. And the question is and I've pointed the red arrow to it. What the hell is going on on the patient's gum line? What is that? So recognizing this adverse drug reaction is the first step in getting this question correct. So the adverse drug reaction that you see here associated with this drug is what we refer to as gingerville hyperplasia and it's a pretty unique adverse drug reaction and the reason that this can show up on USML or complex is because this is really unique. It only points you in the direction of a few agents and additionally this is something that's in the realm of dentistry. Obviously, this is an adverse drug reaction of an amunosuppressive agent, but dentistry does tend to show up on the exam because whenever they show you a picture of somebody's mouth, the finding is pretty characteristic. So, we're talking about gingal hyperplasia and the question now becomes which of the following immunosuppressive agents causes gingal hyperplasia? So now you're in a bit of a sticky situation because maybe you know the answer to that question but you don't know the mechanism of that drug and now you have to go through these five answer choices and not only figure out which one is the correct drug but assign all of these mechanisms to the different amunosuppressants. So the correct answer in this question is choice A cycllohillinbound calcinorin inhibition and that is to say that cycllosporin is the drug that was given. So cycllosporin is an immunosuppressive agent whose mechanism is cyclophilanbound calcinurine inhibition and whose adverse drug reaction is gingal hyperplasia. But I want to pretend for a second that you didn't know that and I'll explain how you could have reasoned through this question using high yield patterns of thinking. Let's say that you didn't know the answer was cycllosporin or that you didn't know that the mechanism of cycllosporin was cyclopllinbound calcinorin inhibition. But maybe you knew what some of the other drugs listed here were. So what could you have done? Well, you could work backwards. So let's go through and fill out what each of these mechanisms, what drug that's associated with and then think about what adverse drug reaction might the question have given you if they actually wanted you to pick that answer instead of A. So B, C, D, and E correspond to tacrolymus, cerillymus, aathioprne, and micopenolate moatil. Now the question is, let's say that you knew some of these, right? You don't even have to know all of them. Let's say you only knew blast and cruise. You knew that tacrolymus was FK506bound calcinorin inhibition and you knew that cerolamus was FKBP bound mTor inhibition. Well, in your head you could have gone through and asked yourself, well, what adverse drug reactions do I know that are associated with tacrolymus or psalamus? And is that in the question stem? Because if it's not, then chances are they don't want you to pick B or C. And at that point, you're guessing between A, D, and E, and you've really got a 33% chance of getting the question right. So, working backwards is really important in terms of developing test taking strategies. Now, just for completeness sake, let's actually go through and talk about the adverse drug reactions of tealamus, cerolamus, aothoprne, and micopenolate mopil. So, for tacrolymus, what you'll probably see is some mention of either nephrotoxicity or increasing the risk of diabetes. So they might give you a lab printout and show you elevated BUN, elevated creatinine, or they might give you somebody with other risk factors like an elevated A1c, etc., etc. So if you see those two things, you would start to think, okay, maybe this is actually Techrolymus, which is FK506bound calcinor inhibition. But because they didn't give you those symptoms, you can cross B off when you're trying to answer this question. What about Perolamus? So what would they have given you in terms of adverse drug reactions if they wanted you to pick choice C? Well, the classically associated adverse drug reactions with Perolamus are pansyenia and hyper lipidmia. And they didn't give you any mention of lipids. They didn't give you any lab pronounce that would point you in the direction of pansyenia. So therefore, because this is not in the vignette, you can probably cross off choice C, which is FKBP bound mTor inhibition, which is to say that's the mechanism of seralamus. What about choice D, aopene? Well, athopene is sort of a is a bit of a non-specific agent in the imunosuppressive line, but what classically shows up on exams is that the toxicity is increased if it's co-administered with alopurinol. And the high yield reason for this is that it's metabolized by zanthine oxidase. So if you're giving a zanthine oxidase inhibitor, then obviously you're increasing the toxicity of aothioprne. And because there was no mention of increased toxicity, there was no mention of alopurinol. There was no mention of this patient having a past medical history of gout or anything else that maybe they were given alopurol for. you can effectively cross off choice D anti metabolite precursor of six mercaptopine because aothoprine is clearly not the correct answer and lastly we've got micopenolate mopil on tests you will probably see this associated with an invasive CMV infection and because there is nothing here to suggest that that's what's going on you can cross off choice E because micophenolate mopatil with its mechanism of reversible inhib of inhibition of IMPD dehydrogenase is not the correct answer. So what I'm illustrating here ladies and gentlemen is that if you didn't know that this was gingivville hyperplasia associated with cycllosporin that has a mechanism of cycllohilainbound calcinuron inhibition you could have worked backwards and filled out what you do know and cross those off if you don't think it's in the question. So we're in talking about test taking strategies that increase your odds of guessing if you absolutely need to. So here we are in part one of two. The answer was a because it's the mechanism of cycllosporin. Now let's move on to question two of two. So the second part of the question says what other unrelated drug is also associated with gingervel hyperplasia? And now you're sitting there and you're like damn you dirty. I just don't know this. This is a just something I was supposed to memorize that I glazed over and I don't know. Well, that's okay, guys, because we're going to use the same test taking strategy here if you don't know the correct answer. So, your five choices are A. Leviteracetam, B lemotrogene, C. Fenitoin, D valproic acid, or E carbomasopene. Now, pause the video if you want to think about this one, but let's start dissecting this question. So I'm going to start by giving you the correct answer. So the answer here is fenitoin. You just absolutely need to know that phenitoin can cause gingerville hyperplasia. So for the purposes of exam high yield takeaway from this video is that two drugs commonly cause gingerville hyperplasia. Cycllosporin the imunosuppressive agent and phenitoin the anti-epileptic agent. But let's pretend you were taking this question on test day and you didn't know that phenitoin was associated with gingal hyperplasia. What you could do is look at these five answer choices and ask yourself okay what adverse drug reactions are these associated with and what would they have given me if they wanted me to pick any of the other drugs. So let's go through and fill those out now. So levitator acetam is associated with neurossychiatric symptoms, depression, mood disorders, even psychosis in some instances. Lamotrogene is associated with Stevens Johnson syndrome. So that really malignant rash and it's for that reason that that drug has to be introduced very slowly whether you're giving it for seizures or whether you're giving it for mood stabilization. Valproic acid is associated with increased LFTs, thrombocytoenia, neural tube defects and pancreatitis and carbomasopene is also associated with Stevens Johnson syndrome and it it also can cause a granuloccytosis and dipopia. So the question is is if you're sitting there and you're taking this question and you're like I don't know which one causes gingerville hyperlasia but what I do know is that they cause x y and z then you can reason through this and say you know what which one is most likely to be the correct answer because think about it if a test writer wanted you to pick lemotrogene they're not going to talk about gingivvil hyperplasia they're going to give you a picture of a rash if a test writer wants you to pick valproic acid they're not hyperplasia they're going to give you things that say that suggest pancreatitis. So they'll show you lipase amalase. They'll give you symptoms. They'll give you a lab printout with decreased platelets. They'll give you a pregnant woman with risk factors for neural tube defects. If they want you to pick a drug that has a very well-known adverse drug reaction, they're usually going to give you the most common adverse drug reaction or the most quote high yield one. I mean, think about it. And carbomasopene causes Steven Johnson syndrome and a granuloscytosis. So, if they want you to pick that as the answer in an adverse drug reaction question, they're going to give you one of the big adverse drug reactions. They're not going to give you one of those stupid non-specific symptoms like GI upset, headache. No, guys, it's not going to happen. So, because you know the main adverse drug reactions of B, D, and E, you can cross those off. And if you really had to guess here, and I'm and I'm leaving a on the table because a lot of medical students for whatever reason just don't know the adverse drug reaction of leviter acetam because it's not as well known as things like Stevens Johnson, a granularytosis, etc., then you're now you're at A-50/50% chance of guessing between A and C. So working backwards is a really important test taking strategy. And the goal of today's video was to illustrate that even in the face of a really complex question that forces you to match a drug with a mechanism with an adverse drug reaction with a picture of a side effect and kind of navigate through this really complex question. It's possible to cross off what you do know and get that question right. So that's it for this video. This was a two-parter. This is another part of my high yield video question bank series. the online free question bank that does not cost you hundreds or thousands of dollars. Please remember to smash that like button, comment in the comment section, subscribe, and if you feel so inclined, sign up to support my channel on Patreon. Thanks. Love you guys.