 Sistimilist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, penitimist, and dorsal surfaces of the fourth and fifth digits. There is also mild atrophy of the hypothenar eminence. He is asked to adduct his first digit against his second digit with a piece of paper held between them, and when the piece of paper is pulled away, the patient flexes his flexor pollicis longus to compensate, but ultimately cannot hold on to the paper. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial step in management? A. Immediate surgical decompression. B. Direct corticosteroid injection. C. Physical therapy. D. NSAIDs. E. Overnight elbow splinting. Pause the video if you need some time to think about this, and now I will give you the correct answer. The correct answer is choice E, overnight elbow splinting. What you're dealing with here in this question is cubital tunnel syndrome, and we'll talk about cubital tunnel syndrome in just a second, but as a quick takeaway, the treatment of cubital tunnel syndrome initially is to correct the provoking posture that causes the syndrome and all of the symptoms that you see in this vignette, and so choice E is the correct answer. Let's talk about cubital tunnel syndrome. So you can see an image here of the cubital tunnel. Cubital tunnel syndrome is when the ulnar nerve that runs through that cubital tunnel is injured or compressed, and this is caused by a proximal injury usually at the medial forearm or the wrist. Now if you look at the cubital tunnel, you'll note that the medial border is the medial epicondyle, the lateral border is the olecranon process, and it's bordered superiorly by the trilaminar retinaculum. When you get a patient on your exam with cubital tunnel syndrome, they're going to present with paresthesias specifically on the palmar surface and the dorsal surface of the little finger and the medial half of the ring finger. Now these symptoms will be worsened by elbow flexion. So usually when the patient is in a position where there's slight flexion at the elbow, for example, when they're either doing some type of activity or when they're sleeping at night because people have a tendency to do a little bit of elbow flexion when they're sleeping, these symptoms will be worsened. Now when you're taking your exam, what's really high yield is to note Froment sign, and I included this in the vignette. We'll go back to the vignette in just a moment here, but Froment sign is the inability to pinch or hold a piece of paper when the piece of paper is pulled. Now the piece of paper has to be pinched between the thumb and the index finger, and normally the ulnar nerve does a deduction of the thumb. However, in cubital tunnel syndrome, if the ulnar nerve is compressed and injured, the thumb can't adduct, and instead, in order to grasp or pinch something between the thumb and the index finger, what will happen is that the flexor pollicis longus in the thumb will actually hyperflex the thumb to compensate for the thumb's inability to adduct, again, because the ulnar nerve cannot do adduction of the thumb. And so you get flexion of the thumb due to the flexor pollicis longus. That is a compensatory mechanism. Therefore, it looks really awkward, and it's hard to squeeze a piece of paper tightly between the thumb and the index finger. And so a positive Froment sign, as you see on this slide, is when you not only have hyperflexion of the thumb due to flexion at the interphalangeal joint, because you're not adducting, again, because that ulnar nerve is injured, but also, in addition to that hyperflexion, that piece of paper can be very easily pulled out. And so the top image is what you would normally see if you hand someone a piece of paper, and you're like, hey, squeeze this between your thumb and your index finger. Most people without any ulnar nerve injury can squeeze that really tightly by just adducting their thumb against their index finger. But that bottom picture shows you what you see in Froment sign, you're no longer able to adduct that thumb, and there's this awkward hyperflexion at the IP joint because of that flexor pollicis longus. So that's Froment sign. This is probably going to be in every single cubital tunnel syndrome question that they give you on your exam. So now let's revisit the practice question and see what you should have pulled out in order to get this question right. So first and foremost, tingling numbness in the left, fourth, and fifth fingers. Okay, so now we're seeing that distribution of paresthesias. Weakness in the hand, particularly when gripping objects. So now I'm sort of hinting, and we're working our way toward Froment sign, but we're not there yet. Decreased sensation to light touch and pinprick over the palmar and dorsal surfaces of the fourth and fifth digits. So again, I'm giving you more fourth and fifth symptomatology, which is consistent with that ulnar nerve distribution. Atrophy of the hypothenar eminence, that points you to directly in the direction of an ulnar nerve injury. And then what I bolded is Froment sign. This is the most important piece of information. And to be honest with you, if I just gave you this sentence, you should have known that it was cubital tunnel syndrome, and you need to know going one step further in this third order question what the immediate step in treatment is. So when the piece of paper is pulled away, the patient flexes his flexor pollicis longus to compensate and ultimately cannot hold on to the paper. And so what I'm doing here is I'm simply describing Froment sign. So these light bulbs need to light up in your head and go, oh, Froment sign, cubital tunnel syndrome. Now we know it's cubital tunnel syndrome. Let's do this third order question. What is the immediate step in treatment? So again, with cubital tunnel syndrome, we do overnight elbow splinting because we're trying to correct the posture that worsens and causes the worsening of that ulnar nerve injury. But let's look at why the other answer choices are incorrect. So immediate surgical decompression, you don't, you never are going to immediately surgical decompress cubital tunnel syndrome. If conservative management fails for six or more months, and now I'm sort of getting more into step two, level two and beyond. But if conservative management for six plus months fails, then you do surgical treatment, but immediate surgical decompression, that is not correct. Choice B, direct corticosteroid injection. This is just a distractor. It's actually not indicated. For the purposes of exams, you're not going to inject corticosteroids into a cubital tunnel syndrome injury. Choice C, physical therapy. This is a potentially good answer choice, but it's not the initial step in management. The initial step is again, to correct that posture overnight by splinting. Physical therapy could be used in conjunction with that, but it's not the most appropriate initial step. Choice D, NSAIDs. Now, I recognize that in real life, most patients are probably taking NSAIDs initially. However, for the purposes of USMLE and COMLEX, this is not an initial step in treatment given the potential adverse effects. Your test writer on USMLE and COMLEX, you have to understand that the way they write the question, their concern, right? Their academic theoretical concern is if somebody's taking NSAIDs around the clock, there's all of these potential side effects of the NSAIDs. Therefore, that's not going to be the most correct initial step in management. Because of all of these, we can eliminate A, B, C, and D. And the correct answer is choice E, overnight elbow splinting. So in closing, this is a really good example of the type of question that you could see on USMLE and COMLEX. This is a third order question where there's three steps in getting this right. Step one, you read the vignette and you look at all the symptoms. Step two, you connect those symptoms and you connect those buzzwords to what you think the correct diagnosis is. And then step three, you translate that diagnosis into getting the answer correct because the answer is not what is the diagnosis. But in this case, it's what is the initial step in treatment? Other questions could say, which of the following pathophysiologies are responsible for the diagnosis? And so you are connecting or translating step two, which is getting that diagnosis from the vignette into step three, which is what is the correct blank treatment, pathophysiology, or what other symptom might you expect to find, etc.