A 44year-old Caucasian male with a past medical history of intravenous drug abuse and obesity is diagnosed with an RNA flav virus. A biopsy of the affected organ reveals lymphoid aggregates with focal areas focal areas of macrovicular steattosis. The patient is diagnosed and treated accordingly. Which of the following other manifestations of this disease might the patient experience? A. Luccoytolastic vasculitis. B. Temporal or giant cell arteritis. C. Anogenital squamus cell carcinoma. D polyarteritis nidosa. Or e nasoparingial carcinoma. Pause the video if you want to take some time to process the question and think about it. And now I'm going to start going through this question. So the first thing that you want to do when you get a question like this, which is obviously pretty big on pathology, is you want to look in the question stem for hints about what disease they're describing. Now, usually when a question is written, the age of the patient and the past medical history can give you some really telling clues. In this case, you're told that the patient has a history of intravenous drug abuse and that the diagnosis is an RNA flav virus. So even if you're not quite sure what the diagnosis is based just on the RNA flavor virus, what you should be starting to think about is okay, what diseases are associated with introvenous drug abuse? Or in other words, what risk do patients have if they have a history of introvenous drug abuse? Now once you've thought about that a little bit, you can look at the actual description of the pathological findings. And the question tells you that under the microscope you see lympoid aggregates with focal areas of macro vicular steattosis. Now what does that look like? Well the description is this. This is a lympoid aggregate and in this image you're seeing it in the portal tract. But just the fact that the question told you that there was macrovvicular steattosis already clues you in to the organ that we're talking about. So now you've got a couple things here. You know that the patient's an IV drug abuser. You know that they're diagnosed with a virus and the virus causes the pathological change in the liver that's lymphoid aggregates with focal areas of macrofasicular steattosis. Other you know stated otherwise it looks like this. So we're talking here about hepatitis C. Now you probably may have been able to guess that we were talking about some type of hepatitis. And now that you have hepatitis in your head, the question is asking you which of the following other manifestations of hepatitis C might the patient experience. So of all the answer choices A through E, there's some other extrahypatic, meaning outside of the liver manifestation of hepatitis C. Now I know what you're thinking, dirty, I don't know which of these things is associated with hepatitis C. How the hell am I supposed to get this question right? Well, that's why I'm doing this high yield video question bank series because you're training your brain to think like a high yield test taker. And how does a high yield test taker answer questions? They work backwards. So, what we're going to do is we're going to go through these answer choices and figure out which one is associated with which disease. And if you had absolutely no idea which one was associated specifically with hepatitis C, you would be able to make a really well-informed guess. So let's look at the question and first answer it with the correct answer. So hepatitis C is associated with something called luccocytolastic vasculitis. And I'm not going to spend too much time on this but really briefly luccoytoclastic vasculitis is basically immune complex deposition specifically in the small vessels the small vascule. And what that does is it activates the compliment cascade and causes inflammation and this really this really obvious red rash. The red rash can be described as violacious palpable perpa and that's just caused by the inflammation and the extravisation of red blood cells. So if you're ever taking your test and you've got a patient with some factors of hepatitis C or some exposure to hepsi and they're showing you a picture of a rash, they may be showing you the extra hypatic manifestation of hepatitis C, luccoytoclastic vasculitis. That's just a little aside. Let's come back to the question. So hepatitis C is associated with luccoytoclastic vasculitis. But let's pretend for a second that you didn't know that. Could you still have gotten this question correct? The answer is yes. So let's look at B through E and figure out what diseases those are associated with. So I'm going to fill those in now. So temporal or giant cell arteritis is associated with polymyalgia rheumatica. Anogenital squamous cell carcinoma is associated with the virus HPV. Polyarteritis nidosa is another vascular manifestation of a hepatitis but this one happens to be hepatitis B. And lastly, nasoperingial carcinoma is associated with Epstein bar virus. So, this question was throwing a couple things in your face here. I mean, I've got a couple viruses and their associations and then I've got a couple distractors, polymyalgia, rheumatica, and temporal cell arteritis because it's also a vasculitis just like the correct answer choice A is a vasculitis. Now, did you know those associations? Did you know that you know temporal arteritis is associated with PMR and anogenital squamos cell carcinoma is associated with HPV? Chances are that you did because these are pretty high yield associations. So again, even if you weren't sure what the question stem was describing, but you knew that it was probably something in the liver, so it's got to be hep or he C rather or he B, you could have made a guess just based on the associations. Now let's pretend for a second. We'll go one step further that the question wanted you to actually pick B, C, D, or E. What might the question have written in the question stem? Well, if they wanted you to pick temporal arteritis, they would have described somebody who's got pain or stiffness in the girdles because again, we're not describing temporal arteritis itself. We're describing the disease that it's associated with, which is polymyalgia rheumatica. And in polymyalgia rheumatica or PMR you get classic pain and stiffness in the shoulders, the hips, which is to say you get that those symptoms in the girdles. If they wanted you to pick anogenital squam cell carcinoma associated with HPV, well they would have told you that it was a non-enveloped doublestranded DNA. They wouldn't have given you the RNA flav virus. For polyarteritis nidosa which is associated with hepatitis B they would have described hepatitis B as a DNA hepadna virus or they would have given you the pathologic findings under the microscope which is eocinophilic ground glass lesions. Lastly, if they wanted you to pick nasoperangio carcinoma, which again is associated with Epstein bar virus in the question stem, if they were going to describe Epstein bar virus, they would have given you an enveloped linear doublestranded DNA, not an RNA flav virus, and they probably would have mentioned the atypical lymphosytes. So, there's all these different buzzwords and findings that could have gone into the question stem, but they're not there. So you can safely conclude that they're not talking about the associations that you know for B, C, D, and E. And if you had to take a guess with a gun held to your head, you could have guessed lucoytolastic vasculitis. So that's it for today's high yield video question bank series. I hope that this question was useful to you. I hope I'm helping you to train your brain to work backwards and eliminate answer choices that are probably not correct because they're associations and descriptions are not in the question stem. That's it. Good luck.