So, with alcohol, let's start with a broad overview. And I'm sure you know what alcohol intoxication looks like because we've all had that really stupid friend who in college just drank a little bit too much. So, generally speaking, alcohol intoxication causes stuper, atexia, and slurred speech, right? We all know what somebody drunk on alcohol looks like. Not too difficult. What's kind of important to know, however, is that alcohol has a predisposition for causing toxicity of cerebellar neurons. So, if you've ever wondered, well, what's the actual cause of that somebody who drinks alcohol has trouble walking? It's because the cerebellum is responsible for coordination of motor movement and therefore alcohol is acutely toxic to cerebellar neurons. So, if you drink a lot of alcohol, those neurons don't function at their optimal capacity and hence you get atexia. That is the classic presentation of alcohol intoxication. And when in doubt, just think about your friend who drank too much at the bar. Now, the pathophysiology behind this and the mechanism, if you will, is that alcohol works through the GABA system and it causes GABA mediated agonism. It also causes NMDA receptor inhibition. So, that acts through glutamate. Now, let's pause for a second. GABA is the chief inhibitory neuron in the nervous system. Glutamate is one of the chief excitatory neurons. So what I'm saying here is that alcohol causes inhibition by agonizing GABA because it turns on an inhibitory neurotransmitter and it decreases excitation which is to say that it causes more inhibition by inhibiting NMDA or glutamate. So just to drive this point home, if you agonize or are an agonist at the GABA receptor, you're causing more inhibition. And if you're turning off glutamate, which is to say that you're turning off an excitatory neuron, you're causing more inhibition. So both of these pathways cause inhibition. This is why alcohol is sedating and causes disinhibition. So inhibition means you turn off normal bodily functions. So you act more stuperous. You have trouble walking. You have slurred speech. Right? It's a decrease in speech, a decrease in walking, a decrease in normal mental capacity. We're inhibiting the central nervous system. We're doing this by agonizing GABA and turning off an excitatory neurotransmitter in glutamate by specifically targeting NMDA receptors. Now, now that you have that in mind, let's talk about the most important part of this lecture, which is the high yield associations between alcohol use and other pathology. Now, think about it. If you're taking USML or complex and test writers wanted to ask you a question about alcohol and the only thing that they asked you about was signs of intoxication or mechanism in terms of how it works, which I've just gone over, the questions would be way too easy, right? You would think about somebody who's drunk. You'd pick the right symptoms or you'd pick the right neurotransmitters and that would be it. That's way too easy for us and complex. So oftent times where the test writers may go is to ask you about associations between alcohol use and other pathology. So what I'm talking about here is what is alcohol's effect on other organ systems besides just the nervous system. That is what you need to know and that is what we're going to spend the next few minutes talking about. So I'm going to go through sort of a rapid review of associations between alcohol use and other pathology. The first one that I want you to think about is a dilated cardiomyopathy. Okay, dilated cardiomyopathy. So this is of course weakened heart muscles that cause grossly enlarged ventricles causing a backup of fluid in the cardiovascular system which can cause a whole host of symptoms. Now chief of which you should remember JVD and peripheral edema. So signs of right-sided heart failure. Now, of course, the most common cause of right-sided heart failure is left-sided heart failure. So, if you have a dilated cardiomyopathy affecting either the left ventricle or the right ventricle, you're going to ultimately produce the same set of symptoms. jugular venus distension, peripheral edema, and always remember to keep your eye out for the S3 heart sound on exams, which should cue you in that you're talking about some type of dilated cardiammyopathy, whether it's alcohol causing it or anything else. There are a number of causes of dilated cardiammyopathy, but alcohol is very much known to cause this. So, if you're taking your exam and you see a patient with JVD, peripheral edema, signs of right heart strain, and signs of fluid overload, think about alcohol as a possible cause. If they're giving you one of the questions where you put on your headphones and listen to the heart sounds, try to listen for that S3 heart sound. And I highly recommend that you go on YouTube and you look for an example of what the S3 heart sound sounds like because it's a little subtle if you've never heard it before. But once your brain can be trained to recognize it, you probably will never miss it. So that's dilated cardiomyopathy. Alcohol is a big cause of this. Look for again JVD, peripheral edema, S3 heart sound, enlarged heart. You can't miss this if you're seeing it with alcohol. The way that I remember that this is a dilated cardiammyopathy and not a different type of cardiammyopathy is I think of a heart that's just full of beer because when you fill up that heart with beer, it dilates it and you get these massive ventricles full of some nice smooth beer. Next association is going to be worn cors. Now Waricki Corsicoff syndrome is extremely extremely high yield. I cannot stress this enough and it's really two distinct um disease processes here that are often clumped together because they exist on sort of a timeline. So let's go through them one at a time. Now Worernicki Corsicoff syndrome is really two different uh pathologies here. It's wori syndrome and cors syndrome. Now Woricki syndrome occurs first and if it's not reversed in time it can progress into corsov syndrome which is irreversible. Now as a whole this process is due to damage to the mammalary body. So alcohol is very damaging to the mammalary bodies and you see white arrows pointing to damaged mammalary bodies on this scan. Now worn is going to occur first and cors is going to occur second. The thing to know here just generally speaking is that during wari syndrome the symptoms are reversible. So if you recognize the symptoms of Waricki syndrome, you can just stop drinking alcohol, treat the deficiency, which is a thamine deficiency and you can reverse the symptoms. If you do that, you'll never progress to corsup syndrome. But if you make it to corsup syndrome and you start having the symptoms of corsup syndrome, the disease process is irreversible and it causes really lasting damage. Now this is again due to alcohol causing a deficiency in thamine causing mammalary body toxicity. So understand that progression. Let's talk about the symptoms that you're going to see. And I'm not going to list every single one. I'm only going to talk about the high yields. Woricki syndrome. They're going to go after the eyes. You're going to see an inter nuclearia. So if you see something like that little picture there where one eye has a gaze preference. Think of inner nuclearia which is worn syndrome or a symptom of Wariki syndrome. And this could be due to alcohol induced thymine deficiency and mammalary body toxicity that is reversible. So if you see that you replete thamine, you can stop drinking alcohol and reverse the symptoms. But let's say that the patient in the question doesn't do that. The symptoms never get recognized. They keep drinking their 40s every single day. It's going to progress to corsuff syndrome. And when you get to corsuff syndrome, you're going to have memory loss. So interrogate amnesia irreversible memory loss irreversible personality changes including hallucinations and psychiatric disturbances if you get to this point number two corsov syndrome it's irreversible and the damage is done. So how do you remember the high yield associations here? It's really one symptom for woriki syndrome. The interuclearia is going to be your big symptom. You're going to see things like atexia and slurred speech, but that's non-specific because you get that in alcohol toxicity anyway. So, Woricki syndrome or you're going to be your eyes. Corsov syndrome memory loss. My pneumonic for remembering this is when I say wori, I say woriee or wornei to remind me of the eyes or the interuclear athopllesia. And when I say corsoth, I say corsa loss. Instead of cough, I say loss because of the memory loss aka the interrogate amnesia. So two y two high yield associations on this slide dilated cardiammyopathy worn cors syndrome please don't forget these now with worn cors syndrome very very very high yield to know how you treat it so because it's a thamine deficiency you obviously have to replete thamine and the question comes all the time up on exams how what's the order for repleting things that you need and specifically the test writers are going to go after thymine and glucose so oftent times Patients who are drunk as a skunk are going to have low levels of glucose, right? Because um when you are drinking, you're inhibiting the ability of the liver to participate in gluconioenesis and therefore you're going to deplete stores available to raise your glucose acutely and therefore when you drink a ton of alcohol, you're going to come in drunk and a little bit hypoglycemic. So in an emergency setting, you test somebody's blood sugar and it's low. They're obviously intoxicated. You smell alcohol on their breath. the test writers are going to go after the order that you replete in terms of thymine and glucose. Now, specifically for Woricki Corsoff syndrome, the high gill point to know is that you have to give the thymine before the glucose. Now, I'm not going to really bog you down with the details of this, but very very briefly remember that in the TCA cycle when you ultimately break down glucose, you have to use up thymine in that process. That is to say that if glucose is free in the body and it goes through glycolysis, it goes through the pyrovate metabolism. It enters the TCA cycle, you spin that wheel, break down the glucose, turn it into its byproducts, and in doing that you use up thamine. So, what I'm saying is that if you make glucose available in the body when there's a thymine deficiency, you're going to spin the TCA cycle, go through your metabolism, and use up even more thamine as you try to break down that glucose. So, think about it. You give somebody a load of glucose and they already have a low thamine, they're only going to use more thamine, which means if you're giving them glucose, you're effectively worsening their Wiki Corsoff syndrome. That is so dangerous. And therefore it is high yield to know that you always give their thymine before you give the glucose. And the way that you remember this is you just go through the alphabet. B1 before G, B1 before glucose, B1 thymine B before G for glucose. So you go B1 B before G. That's just in order in the alphabet. So don't forget that. Again, glucose when you give it to somebody will cause thymine to go down because the body's going to process that glucose and use up more thymine through the metabolic pathways that you should have memorized in biochemistry. So before you give the glucose, you give thamine. High yield, high yield. Cannot stress it enough. Please replay the last few seconds if you don't understand my explanation, but you have to know that. Let's talk about more associations of alcoholism. So the big one is cerosis and there's a whole slew of symptoms that you need to know with cerosis and I wanted to just put an overview slide here. I'm not going to go through these individually but you're going to see things like caput medusa ascites portal hypertension esophageal veraces which we'll talk about separately just very briefly jaundice gynecomastia spider nevi scleral ectal scleral ectctorus fetour hpaticus which is the kind of musty uh serotic breath smell and some other symptoms that are due to increased gross estrogenism. So please know all of the clinical squellle of cerosis. The more you drink over time, the more likely you are to have alcoholic cerosis. Remember that on lab printouts, you look at the LFTs or the liver function tests. And if the A is greater than or equal to 2 times the ALT, it's an alcoholic pattern. And that should tip you off that the person is drinking quite a bit. So that's going to be cerosis. The other one that I want you to keep in mind is pancreatitis. So in the United States, the number one cause of pancreatitis is actually due to gallstones. is gallstone pancreatitis. But a close second is alcohol pancreatitis. Alcohol is acutely damaging to the pancreatic tissue and causes pancreatitis. So if you see a CT scan like this and it looks like there's some inflammatory changes in the center, think about pancreatitis due to alcoholism, especially if the demographics of the patient are not somebody who would otherwise be at risk for a gallstone. So think about the risk factors for gallbladder pathology. you should have learned in medical school or maybe even in your board review. Fat, female, fertile, and 40. So, if they're going to give you a very frail 70-year-old man who reeks of alcohol, chances are it's not a gallstone causing pancreatitis because it's not a fat, fertile uh 40-year-old female. It's a skinny old man who's homeless on the street drinking booze every day. Think alcohol as the cause of pancreatitis as opposed to gallstones. So that's just something to keep in mind in terms of looking at the demographics of the patient and the patient identifiers in the practice question. Other associations that you need to know let's talk briefly about esophageal veraces. So esophageal veraces are one of the squle of portal hypertension. So this kind of falls within the umbrella of cerosis but it's very important on its own because if you see esophageal veraces you really should think about cerosis caused by alcoholism right off the bat. So anytime you're on your exam and you see high volume hematis, meaning the patient's vomiting a lot of blood, I want your brain to just have this instinct where you think about alcohol as the cause and you kind of work backwards. So you see esophageio veraces, you see throwing up uh bloody vomit, go backwards to cerosis, go backwards to alcoholism. Be ready for the test writers to give you some associative question between the pathology that you're seeing and the possible cause being alcohol. Another association is gout. Very very high yield. Gout. Sometimes on exams you people kind of think about it in terms of like diabetics and and pharmacologic agents that might worsen um uric acid metabolism, but alcohol actually decreases uric acid metabolism because it's competing for lactic acid and lactic acid, excuse me, and beta hydroxybutyrate. So through the uh biochemical pathways that you should have already learned, alcohol can acutely worsen gout because it decreases uric acid metabolism. So somebody goes on a bender and drinks a ton of booze and all of a sudden they're showing up with a hot spicy toe. Think about gout due to alcoholism. Other high yield associations, let's keep going. I told you guys this is really really high yield. We're going to keep going through associations. Aspiration pneumonia is a huge one. So generally speaking, and just something that would be good to know in terms of general knowledge, people who are at risk for aspiration pneumonia are those patients who can't protect their airway. So these are patients who when they're sleeping accidentally aspirate or have contents that go down their trachea instead of their esophagus. This can be due to things like drug intoxication, alcohol intoxication, problems, just general problems protecting the airway. elderly people who have had neurologic damage and don't have their cough reflex intact. But alcohol is a big one because when you are acutely intoxicated on alcohol, you can pass out and not protect your airway. Think about the person who's drunk as a skunk laying on a bench in a the middle of a park, right? Their respiratory function is going to be compromised. So, they're not going to have their normal cough reflex. They're not going to be able to protect their airway as well, and therefore, they're high risk for aspiration. So if you see a chest X-ray that looks anything like aspiration pneumonia or in the clinical vignette they described somebody who was very somnolent not really protecting their airway. So maybe they cue you by saying things like the patient was drooling, the patient was coughing, the patient had a low oxygen saturation, things like that. Think about aspiration pneumonia caused by alcohol. Now the associations aren't just in the patient themselves. The other high yield associations that you need to know is what happens when somebody drinks alcohol when they're pregnant. What will their baby look like? Now, this is really sad, but this is fetal alcohol syndrome. Now, fetal alcohol syndrome has three classic symptoms that you absolutely have to recognize for your exams. They are a thin upper lip, a smooth filtrum. So the little area on the upper lip that goes across the upper lip, that's the filtrum, and a low nasal bridge with a short bottom part of the nose. So the three things you need to remember, thin lip, smooth filtrum, and the nasal bridge abnormality. Okay, those three are very unique to fetal alcohol syndrome. So this is going to be the symptoms that you see in a baby born to a mom who drank during pregnancy. Now what's the pneumonic for remembering these? Well, the way that I always remembered this is I said the thin smooth smell of that beer. Thin for thin lip, smooth for smooth filtrum, and smell reminding me of the nasal bridge with the low nose because you obviously smell through your nose. So I always thought of my favorite beer and I said that thin smooth smelling beer is fetal alcohol syndrome or the symptoms of fetal alcohol syndrome. So those are all of the high yield associations that I want you to know and we went through quite a bit. So rewind the slides if you need some more time with that but it's very important to keep all that stuff in mind because again test writers aren't going to ask you what are the symptoms of being drunk because we all know that. Now let's come back and talk about alcohol withdrawal. The way to understand alcohol withdrawal is to understand the mechanism. And I've already gone over that by working on GABA and activating GABA or activating an inhibitor, alcohol is inhibiting. And by inhibiting an excitatory neurotransmitter, it's even more inhibiting. If you understand that, then understanding the pathophysiology of alcohol withdrawal is really not that difficult. Acutely, when somebody drinks alcohol, you actually have a balance between the action on GABA and NMDA. So the patient is only a little bit inhibited. You know, if you're going out with friends and you have a beer or two, you're going to be a little bit inhibited. You're going to have a little bit of, you know, change in how you're acting, change in how you're walking, but overall, you're not going to be that bad. That's acute alcohol intoxication. And because of this, the balance between the inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitters are relatively intact. The pathophysiology here and the problem is that what happens when you drink so much alcohol over time that you actually alter your receptor profile. So for that we need to look at the receptors and go a little bit to the cellular and molecular level to understand what's going on. So over time this is your GABA receptor and the GABA receptor is going to bind its lian and carry out the actions of the GABA receptor which include multiple squle of just general inhibition. But what happens when that receptor is bombarded with liand over time? This is to say that every single day you drink four to six beers. That means that the GABA receptor is always going to have something sitting in it. So it's always going to be activated. That postsaptic receptor is going to say, hm, okay, my receptors always have something in it. I need to start lowering and internalizing the receptors available on the end plate. And because of that, you get this process called down reggulation. So receptors will literally be internalized in the postsaptic receptor and disappear. This is what happens and when you bombard receptors with lian it's called down reggregulation. Now as a result of that fewer receptors are available to bind lian. And what happens in alcohol withdrawal is because your inhibitory receptor goes down. If you remove the stimulus, that is to say, you take alcohol out of the picture, you no longer have anything sitting in the receptors, but there's already fewer receptors available. When that happens, you have absolutely no inhibition, but you have full excitation. So, in alcohol withdrawal, the level of GABA agonism goes down precipitously because of downregulation, removing what should be a normal GABA receptor profile. So you're at very few GABA receptors and because the alcohol is gone, there's no lian at all sitting in those receptors. This tips the balance to the excitatory pathway and then you get full excitation. And when you get full excitation, you get symptoms of neurotoxicity and neuroexitation, chief of which is seizures. That is why the seizure risk in alcohol withdrawal is so damn high. Now, when we talk about alcohol withdrawal, we need to talk about the timeline of alcohol withdrawal. And I think that that is best accomplished by using a really simple and clean, sexy, dirty USMLA table. The way that I want to break this up is 0 to 24 hours, 24 to 48 hours, and 48 to 72 hours. Now, in real life, the symptoms might not always follow this. They may not be so cleancut, but when we talk about it for the purposes of exams, this is how you should learn it. So from 0 to 24 hours you get what's called autonomic hyperactivity or dautonomia and these symptoms include some basic things like hypertension, tacocardia, a little bit of a tremor and just general anxiety. So within the first 24 hours of somebody who does not have alcohol and they're used to drinking every single day, they're going to have a high blood pressure, high heart rate, a little bit of a shaky tremor, and they're just going to be generally anxious. Treatment is going to be benzoazipines. Now, spoiler alert, bzzoazipines is the treatment for each of these three different steps in withdrawal. So, really easy to remember. So, on your exam, look for the elevated heart rate, elevated blood pressure, elevated movement, and elevated kind of mental status, if you will. So, 0 to 24 hours is just hyperactivity of all these different things. 24 to 48 hours is where things start to get a little dangerous. This is where you can have your first seizures. You can also have something called alcoholic hallucinosis. And it's very important to differentiate that from our 48 to 72-hour pathology. And I'll get more into that in just a second. But this is where seizures can start to occur. Remember, when we tip the balance in alcohol withdrawal, due to downregulation of our GABA receptors, you have full-blown excitation. And when you have only excitatory neurons firing in the brain, it should be no surprise if you have half a brain, no pun intended, that you're going to get things like seizures. You're going to get things like hallucinations because you have multiple neurons firing causing excitation and excitatory pathways. So you're going to create things that aren't actually there. Hence visual hallucinations. Now treatment here again bzzoasipines. The goal when we give benzo is that benzo are GABA agonists and they mediate the GABA that's already kind of not working. So you're replacing the effect of the alcohol. So in 24 to 48 hours you see the onset of seizures and alcoholic hallucinosis. Now alcoholic hallucinosis is a process whereby you have visual hallucinations but no disorientation. So if you don't already know this when you see patients in real life you ask if they're alert and oriented which means do they know their name? Do they know the year? Do they know the month? And do they know why they're in the hospital? If the answer is yes to all four of those questions, when you're writing your physical exam note, they're alert and oriented times four. In alcoholic hallucinosis, even though they're having visual hallucinations, they're alert and oriented times 4. So, they're seeing things that aren't real, but they know what reality is. They know who they are, where they are, and why they're there. That is very important to differentiate from what's called delirium tremen. Now, delirium tremen occurs between 48 to 72 hours. This is still seizures but this is the onset of psychosis disorientation and the seizures are so severe that they can cause neural toxicity causing death. So this is where people die. They die from DTS. Treatment here is bzzoazipines because again we're trying to replace or replete the absent lian that's going to sit in the GABA receptor. But the difference between delirium tremens and alcoholic hallucinosis is that alcoholic hallucinosis has no disorientation. That is very very high yield coming up on exams all the time. So please know that alcoholic hallucinosis visual hallucinations but they're oriented so they know who they are and where they are. Delirium tremens visual hallucinations but they have no [\h__\h] idea who they are or where they are. This is where people get psychotic and very strange. So this is your alcohol withdrawal timeline. Very very high yield to understand. Please know the differences between everything that I've talked about. Let's talk about pharmarmacology of alcohol and the treatment for those who suffer from alcohol use disorder. So the first thing that I want to do is talk briefly about the your choice of benzoazipines when you're treating alcoholism. So because when somebody is withdrawing we're trying to give them back some lian to sit in the GABA receptor. We prefer longer acting bzzoazipines. Now your longer acting benzoazipines are things like dazipam, oxazipam and chlorazipoxide. Dasipam is valium, oxazipam is ser and chlorioasapoxide is lirium. Now I want you to remember and you probably know this if you've already studied some of your general pharmarmacology but there are three bzzoasipines that are metabolized not by the liver and the pneumonic is OTL or outside the liver. It's oxazipam, tamasipam, and laorazzipam. Because of this, it's very safe to assume that you can use these medications to treat alcohol use disorder or to treat alcohol withdrawal because somebody who is a chronic alcohol drinker, they probably have some baseline metabolic disturbance in their hpatic function or in their liver function. So these are the three that you want to choose from. Now, nobody uses tamasipam, so that's never going to be the answer. So it's going to either be oxazipam or larazzipam. Okay, outside the liver, these are the drugs that are not metabolized by the liver. So, they're very safe to use in somebody who might have cerosis or might have elevated LFTs, but you need to treat them for alcohol withdrawal. Now, let's talk about the treatment of alcoholism or the treatment of alcohol use disorder. There are three main drugs that are used today. Nrexone, eamperate, and dulfurm. Now, let's talk about their mechanisms because this is the highest yield point here, which is where the test writers will probably go. Now trexone is a muopioid antagonist. A camperate is an NMDA receptor mediator. Dulfuram is an acid alahhide dehydrogenase inhibitor. Now I'm going to talk about each of these very very briefly and then we'll close by talking about dulfuram because that's the highest yield one on the slide. But basically now trexone is a muopioid antagonist. So it blocks opioid receptors. If you block opioid receptors, you're just decreasing decreasing the pleasure associated with substance use because you decrease the dopamineergic surge that you get when you introduce that that substance into the body. A camperate is an NMDA receptor mediator which works to decrease cravings for alcohol. Dulfurm causes uh inhibition of acid alahhide dehydrogenase which means you have a buildup of a substance that causes side effects. So this is what these drugs do. Now trexone decreases the pleasure associated with drinking. A camperate decreases the cravings of drinking and dulfurum increases the side effects of drinking. So when choosing your treatment, you can choose which one of these you want to go after. Now there's a little bit of limitation to this because obviously the patient has a choice of simply not taking these medications and then they can just go on their merry way and drink 10 beers. But that's a different point. So let's talk about dulfurum because it's very very high yield in terms of understanding the biochemistry behind it. So recall from biochemistry that alcohol or ethanol if you will is broken down by alcohol dehydrogenase into acid aldahhide and then acid aldahhide is metabolized by acid alahhide dehydrogenase into acetate which can then be processed and eliminated from the body. Where dulfur works is by inhibiting acid aldahhide dehydrogenase. And when it inhibits that enzyme, it builds up acid alahhide. Now acid aldahhide is what's very toxic to the body. And because of this, dulfuram causes this buildup of acid aldahhide which causes a huge surge in side effects of the aldahhide which is pretty much just vomiting. So if you give somebody dulfur, which is called antabuse, that's the um the brand name. they just get terrible vomiting like absolutely terrible projectile vomiting as soon as they drink. So if dulfuram is in the body and therefore acid alahhide dehydrogenase is inhibited you just simply can't break down the acid aldahhide that will be formed as a byproduct of drinking. So you get massive projectile vomiting high yield to know that there are several other drugs that have a dulfur like reaction. So keep those in mind. Things like metroniditool aka flagagile is a big one that has a dulfram like reaction. So it's not just dulf itself that can inhibit inhibit acid alahhide dehydrogenase but several other pharmacologic agents also inhibit this enzyme. Guys that's it for this video. I know that I went through a lot of information, but alcohol is a huge topic on exams and it's especially a huge topic now given all of the different crisises that we see or crises, excuse me, that we see with addiction. It's a huge topic. It's high yield, a ton of clinical associations to know and a lot of different directions that test writers could go in. So, make sure you understand everything that I've talked about today. I hope this video was helpful.