 Let's talk about what you need to know, Let's talk about what you need to know, regarding infective endocarditis, this topic on the high yield scale from 0 to 10, where 0 is never shows up on USMLE or Comlex, and 10 is always shows up on USMLE or Comlex, this is a 10 out of 10. This is one of those topics that you absolutely 1000% need to know, because as you'll see, this is a really great topic that connects pretty much every category that you need to know for your exam. führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to really important to know. So let's start with an overview. Infective endocarditis refers to inflammation of the endocardium, right? It's endocarditis, meaning it's itis of the endocardium or inflammation of the endocardium. Typically, this will affect the inner valves of the heart, and this will manifest as cardiovascular symptoms plus extra cardiac symptoms outside of the heart. More on that in a few slides. When we talk about infective endocarditis, it's really important to differentiate acute endocarditis from subacute endocarditis. Now, just if this wasn't obvious already, acute is more rapid, more severe. Subacute is slower, more insidious onset with milder symptoms. In the case of acute endocarditis, this tends to affect healthy pre-existing native valves. In the case of subacute endocarditis, this tends to affect some type of pre-damaged or defective valves. So bottom line here, acute endocarditis is rapid, severe, affecting what was previously a healthy valve. Subacute is slower, more insidious, milder, but it's affecting damaged valves that existed in their pre-damaged state before the endocarditis occurred. Really important to understand on your exams are the different etiologies that cause acute versus subacute endocarditis. So let's run through these. The most important is staph aureus. Staph aureus is your most common cause of acute infective endocarditis. It tends to affect healthy valves, and a major risk factor is intravenous drug abuse. If somebody has staph aureus-induced acute endocarditis, the vegetations that you see on top of the valves tend to be extremely large, and that can be a big clue on test day. If they describe these really large vegetations, that might suggest that you're dealing with staph aureus. But most important thing to know, staph aureus equals most common cause of acute endocarditis, and intravenous drug abuse is a major risk factor for this. Jumping down to viridin's strep. So this is the most common cause of subacute endocarditis. This is the most common cause of subacute. So right off the bat, just epidemiology, especially if you're taking step two or step three, understand that viridin's strep is your most common cause of subacute, whereas staph aureus is your most common cause of acute. And the reason that that's important is if you're taking your exam, particularly if you're taking Comlex, which is notorious for being very vague with the way they ask questions, and you're making a total guess as to whether it's staph or viridin's, or consequently, if it's acute or subacute, you could guess based simply on the presentation. If you think, for example, okay, I'm probably dealing with subacute because they described this insidious onset of somewhat mild symptoms. I think it's subacute. Therefore, I'm going to guess viridin's because I know that epidemiologically, viridin's is the most common cause of subacute endocarditis. So that's a way that you can train your brain to be more clinically oriented when you're dealing with step two and step three, in particular on Comlex level two and Comlex level three. The big one to note for viridin's is that it is often a complication of dental procedures. So if they're describing somebody that recently had dental work done a few weeks prior to this insidious subacute onset, that should really suggest to you that you're dealing with strep viridin's. If we look at staph epidermidis, really the key here is that this infects, it comes from infected peripheral venous catheters. So this causes another subacute endocarditis. And another risk factor here would be a prosthetic heart valve. So that's staph epidermidis. Basically just prosthetic valves from peripheral venous catheters. That should make you think staph epidermidis. Strep gallolyticus, aka strep bovis. So this is going to be in the setting of colon cancer. So if you're taking your exam and they describe somebody who has endocarditis, and then they ask you what is the next step in treatment or what's the next test you should order, and you're not seeing any of the answer choices that you would typically associate with the next best step as it relates to endocarditis. Cardiovascularly speaking, you're actually going to pick colonoscopy here because what the test writer is suggesting to you is that the patient actually has colon cancer and you need the confirmatory test for colon cancer. So bottom line, strep bovis, strep gallolyticus, that causes endocarditis specifically in the setting of colon cancer. Enterococcus faecalis. This is going to be after a nosocomial urinary tract infection, occasionally following some type of GI or GU procedure. So keep that in the back of your mind. GI, GU procedure, or nosocomial UTI. Big buzzwords for enterococcus. The Hasek group, this is associated with poor dental hygiene or recent periodontal infections. So you might be thinking like, whoa, you said dental stuff equals viridins. That is correct. But in general, the Hasek group is going to suggest that you're dealing with a patient that has poor dental hygiene or a periodontal infection in general. It does not necessarily mean that they had a recent dental procedure, which was complicated by infection with viridin strep. So I know that can be a point of confusion, but just keep those separate in your brain. And then lastly, your fungal category here. So things like candida, aspergillus, et cetera. Obviously these are fungal infections. So this is going to occur in immunosuppressed patients, which is to say patients with organ transplants, HIV, AIDS, et cetera. So these are some etiologies. Big thing I want you to walk away from this slide understanding is that staph aureus is your most common cause of acute endocarditis, highly associated with intravenous drug abuse. Viridin is your most common cause of subacute, highly associated with being a complication of a recent dental procedure. Epidermitis, think prosthetics. Galiliticus, think colon cancer. Enterococcus, think nosocomial UTI or GIGU procedures. And fungal, think immunosuppressed patients. If you can do that, that's very buzzy. You'll be well prepared for these types of questions. Now let's switch gears and talk about pathophysiology. So big picture before I get into this is that what causes endocarditis is there's some type of prodromal endocardial damage. Basically something happens that exposes the endocardium. Then you have bacteremia, which is to say you have the seeding of bacteria from some downstream or localized infection. And the combination of that exposed endothelium with bacteria getting to that exposed endothelium, that is what leads to endocarditis. So with that as the big picture, let's get into the nitty gritty. So first step, you have endocardial damage. Now for many patients, that's just going to be due to some type of turbulent blood flow around pre-diseased valves. And as that turbulent blood flow kind of erodes the valve further, that exposes the damaged endocardium, and that creates a nidus for bacterial infection. In the case of intravenous drug abuse, every time somebody shoots intravenous drugs, they are literally injecting particulate matter. And as that particulate matter flows over the valve, it degrades it. It's kind of like on a microscopic level, sandblasting the valve with some type of particulate in the blood. But both of these, functionally speaking, turbulent flow over a diseased valve or particulates from intravenous drug abuse, functionally they're doing the same thing. They are eroding and degrading a valve and exposing a potential site for bacteremia to occur. Now then when that happens, you get platelet fiber and adherence. So as you're hopefully familiar with by now, the coagulation cascade is activated. And as this happens and as platelets and fiber and adhere, you get the formation of a sterile, non-bacterial thrombotic vegetation. And I want to be very clear here. There's a vegetation that forms, but it is non-bacterial yet, or it's not bacterial at this moment. Yes, there's a vegetation. Yes, there is a thrombosis, right? There's a thrombotic vegetation, but there is no bacterial seeding yet. It is these circumstances plus what we're about to talk about that creates endocarditis. So I'm going to pause for a second. Endocardium gets damaged. Turbulent blood flow, particulate matter from IV drug abuse, there's endocardial damage. Coagulation cascade is activated. You have the formation of a thrombotic vegetation. Now, next step, localized infection. To be clear, this does not have to be in the heart. Any source of bacteria in the body can ultimately flow over a damaged endocardium because all blood returns to the heart. And that is what causes endocarditis. So some source, some localized source of distant bacteremia enters the blood supply and makes its way over the heart where that preexisting endocardial damage occurred. At this point, that bacteria colonizes what you just had as a previously non-bacterial sterile thrombotic vegetation. When that bacterial colonization occurs, you have a few things happening. One, more fibrin clots are forming. Two, more degrading and more destruction of that valve occurs. Three, this is now a bacterial thromboemboli that's forming. So it's no longer sterile. It is, yes, it's a vegetation, but now it's bacterial. Now it is septic. You get vessel occlusion, infarctions, and immune complex formation. So basically, the heart valve and the endocardium is further degraded. There's more inflammation. There's more coagulation, right? More fibrin clots, more valve destruction, more thromboembolic events. And in the heart, but also distant in other organs throughout the body that the blood is flowing to, you throw off these thromboemboli and create these septic embolic events. And what that leads to is vessel occlusion and infarction. And the body trying to deal with this is forming immune complexes. We know that if you've studied a little bit of immunology, that anytime the body forms immune complexes, that leads to other extracardiac, meaning outside of the heart, complications. So this is an unfortunate cascade of events that started with endocardial damage, but then the coagulation cascade and the inflammatory cascade made it worse. Then there was a source of bacteria introduced that flowed over that damaged endocardium. And now finally, you end up with infective endocarditis because that bacteria colonized the vegetation and infiltrated the damaged endocardium. So now with that in mind, as your pathophysiology, let's talk about clinical findings. So the way that the patients are going to present right off the bat is that they're going to have vague, generalized, constitutional symptoms. So this is not going to give you, it's not going to seal the diagnosis of endocarditis because you're going to have fever, chills, tachycardia, malaise, weakness, night sweats, so a lot of vague stuff. You couldn't tell this from influenza if you were just reading it right off the bat. Where you're going to seal the diagnosis is going to be all the associated findings and all of the extracardiac symptoms and syndromes that they'll give you. The one that really would suggest that you're probably dealing with infective endocarditis is that they're either going to give you a new murmur or an exacerbation of a pre-existing murmur. This could typically be tricuspid regurgitation, aortic regurgitation, or mitral regurgitation. Understand that from an epidemiological standpoint, the most common valve that gets effective is your mitral valve, followed by your aortic valve, followed by your tricuspid valve, followed by your pulmonary valve. But I want to note for completeness sake that if you're dealing with someone who is an intravenous drug abuser, it's more likely that their tricuspid valve will be involved because that's the first valve that the particulate matter and the foreign substances will flow over. Now let's continue here. So the extracardiac symptoms, these are what you want to look for in your exam. These are caused by septic microemboli, plus or minus immune complex formation. So the first big one is subungual splinter hemorrhages. And you can see a nice image of that here. Basically peripheral septic microemboli get thrown off. They migrate from the infected heart valve and they end up under the nail. Subungual just means under the nail. So these are literally septic microemboli that travel all the way under the nail and then create that little pigmented color under the nail. Janeway lesions shown here on the right side of the slide. These are painless, very important, painless erythematous maculopapular lesions on the palms and soles. These are due to micro abscesses from the septic microemboli from the valve vegetation. So before I go any further, you can already see that these extracardiac symptoms are due to the microemboli leaving the heart and going to distant organs, distant organ systems. That's really the common theme here. So subungual splinter hemorrhages right under the nail, little splinter looking things, and Janeway lesions. Very important to know Janeway lesions are painless. And I have a nice demonic for that. I'll come back to that in just a moment. Osler nodes. So shown here, painful subcutaneous nodules on the palm fingers, toes. This is due to immune complex deposition. So again, the body is recognizing that there's this foreign vegetation, there's this inflammatory cascade happening. The body's like, I don't like that. So it makes immune complexes, but those immune complexes inadvertently get deposited into the palms, into the fingers, into the toes, and that creates these painful nodules. So those are Osler nodes. Lastly, very important, Roth spots. So Roth spots are round retinal hemorrhages with white centers or pale centers and some surrounding edema. This is again due to microthrombi, but specifically, obviously at the site of the retinal capillary damage. So I've pointed them out with the green arrows here. Hopefully you can appreciate that they have white centers. But again, in keeping with our theme here, this pathophysiology is due to the microthrombi that gets thrown out of the heart and end up at the retinal capillary damage or end up at the retina. So if you see the image of what is obviously a fundoscopic exam on USMLE or Comlex, you could pretty safely conclude that you're dealing with Roth spots. Now, let me pause for a moment. If we go back to this slide, I told you that Janeway lesions are painless, Osler nodes are painful. And sometimes the images won't really seal the diagnosis and tell you whether you're dealing with a Janeway lesion or an Osler node. And really all you have to go off of is whether or not they are painful or painless. And so my mnemonic here, Janeway lesions are painless, Osler nodes, ouch, which is to say, Osler nodes hurt. And Janeway lesions are painless, the L-E-S for lesions and painless. So this has always been the really stupid way that I've remembered this. But if you're taking your exam and you're like, I don't know, it's like something on the hand, you can't really tell what it is, but does it hurt? Yeah, it hurts, Osler node. No, it doesn't hurt, Janeway lesion, because lesions are painless. Really, really easy. That'll get you some free points. So let's talk about our clinical findings a little bit more here. There are lots of other symptoms that you want to be on the lookout for. Those things are going to be extra cardiac, again, right outside of the heart. So you could deal with a lot of spleen pathology. So you might get splenic abscesses, splenic artery occlusions. Again, you're throwing off these emboli from the heart. And when they get to the splenic vasculature, they can occlude the vasculature, right? They can cause that splenic artery occlusion. They can literally form a splenic abscess. So on your exam, be on the lookout for left upper quadrant pain or splenomegaly. Likewise, it can go to the vasculature of the kidney. It can cause an acute kidney injury. So look for anuria, hematuria, changes in BUN, creatinine, GFR. You can get neurological symptoms. You can get embolic stroke, seizure, meningitis, encephalitis, central nervous system abscess. There's a classic exam question where a patient presents with stroke-like symptoms, and it turns out that the cause was septic emboli originating from the heart due to endocarditis. So just because you get a stroke-like presentation, that does not exclude the underlying cause, maybe infective endocarditis. And then lastly, obviously, anytime we deal with some intracardiac pathology, that will oftentimes cause pulmonary symptoms because of how inherently connected the heart and the lungs are. So look out for pulmonary abscesses, edema, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusions, or signs and symptoms of a pulmonary embolism. Something else that I want to point out, because it's a pretty classic test question, especially for step two, level two, and beyond, there's this phenomenon called reactive thrombocytosis. Sometimes that's called secondary thrombocytosis. And basically what this is, is markedly elevated platelet levels in response to some underlying inflammation. So in the case of infective endocarditis, there's a classic test question where a patient has endocarditis and one of the key lab abnormalities that they give you is this like ridiculously high platelet level. And when you're first looking at this, you think that you're dealing with some type of hematological issue, but it turns out that it's endocarditis. What happens here is that in response to the underlying inflammation, there's increased levels of circulating IL-6 or interleukin-6, and that enhances thrombopoietin. Anytime you enhance thrombopoietin secretion, you get increased megakaryocyte production, which increases your platelet levels pretty significantly. So bottom line here, I just want you to store it in the back of your brain. If you're taking your exam and you get a crazy high platelet level, sometimes that is infective endocarditis because they like you to connect some really severe underlying inflammation with reactive or secondary thrombocytosis. We're going to conclude with the principles of treatment. Honestly, for step one and level one, this is really not that important. However, for step two, level two, this is extremely important. So depending on where you are, that'll dictate how much attention you should pay to this slide. So in general, blood cultures, you always need to get those before you give antibiotics. Typically, antibiotic treatment will begin with empiric treatment. That's usually going to be vancomycin plus gentamicin, although obviously there are some other regimens that are utilized. In this gray box here, this is what's really important for step two, level two, and beyond. So your confirmatory test is a transesophageal echo. And then what's really, what shows up, unfortunately, all the time on step two, level two, and beyond is whether or not a patient who's going to go in for a dental procedure, whether or not that patient needs endocarditis prophylaxis. So let's talk about that just for a second, because this question shows up a lot on shelves and a lot on step two, level two, and beyond. So any patient, so what the question is, under what condition will a patient need endocarditis prophylaxis before getting some type of dental procedure? And the answer is that if any of the following conditions are met, so patient has a history of infective endocarditis, that one should make sense. Obviously, if they've had endocarditis in the past, you want to prophylax them before dental procedures. If they have a history of a heart transplant plus current, meaning now, valve regurgitation. So just having a heart transplant does not mean you need prophylaxis. It's if and only if it's heart transplant and they have some type, any type of valve regurgitation. The next condition is that any history of a congenital cyanotic heart disease that is not fully repaired, that is going to get prophylaxis. And then lastly, any, and it doesn't matter what kind, any cardiac prosthetic material, they get prophylaxis. So I put any there because what the test writer is going to do is they're going to try to confuse you and overwhelm you. They're going to talk about these prosthetic rings and these prosthetic clods and all these crazy things, right? Don't get overwhelmed by that. Any prosthetic, that patient, if it's in the heart, gets prophylaxis. So you're sitting there now and you're like, okay, that kind of makes sense when you talk through it, but how do I remember that? Because that's a lot of stuff and I'm not going to be a cardiologist and I'm not going to be a dentist. So why, how am I going to memorize that? Well, who do you prophylax for? You proph, P-R-O-P-H, for prosthetics, regurgitation. And then again, that's any regurgitation after a transplant, an original cyanotic heart defect that's not been repaired, and anybody with a prior history, PH of infective endocarditis. Let's keep it simple. You proph for proph, P for prosthetics, R for regurgitation after transplant, O for an original cyanotic heart defect that's not repaired. PH for a prior history of endocarditis. Let's keep it simple. That's infective endocarditis.