

=== FILE: Actinomyces Israelii [jXG3F7V2AjM].txt ===

 In this video, in this video, we'll talk briefly about what you need to know for the bacteria actinomyces israelii. Now this is a gram-positive, anaerobic, branching filamentous rod, and I didn't include it on the slide, but I'll also note that it is not acid-fast. When it comes to actinomyces, the thing that you need to know is that this pathogen produces yellow sulfur granules, and the infection typically involves the oral cavity, the face, and the neck, but it also can be involved in the GI system and the reproductive tract. Here's a brief picture, and I hope you can appreciate the branching filaments of this bacteria. Now I'll note that both actinomyces israelii as well as nocardia have branching filaments, so it will be the clinical manifestations as well as some subtle differences that differentiate the bacteria. There are a lot of bacteria that differentiate these two, but actinomyces israelii is one of the bacteria that have branching filaments. Now when it comes to pathophysiology, the good thing is that this has no virulence factor. So to that point, there's not a whole lot that you need to know here. But in terms of making sense of this in your brain and understanding how this bacteria works beyond just what you need to memorize for your boards, please understand that actinomyces is part of the normal flora of the oral cavity, the GI tract, and the female urogenital tract. And so then the question becomes, if it has no virulence factors, how does it cause infection? Well, it only causes infection when there is tissue injury or a break in the mucosal barrier. So think about this. If actinomyces inhabits the oral cavity, the GI tract, and the female urogenital tract, then a tissue injury or some type of risk factor to one of those mucosal barriers causes a localized infection in that area. And then beyond that localized infection, what you need to know is that this pathogen, actinomyces, does not respect tissue planes and it spreads contiguously. And this is why actinomyces is associated with draining sinus tracts. If you see that word plus or minus in association with something like yellow sulfur granules or sinus draining tracts, these are all used relatedly and interchangeably. This is because actinomyces does not respect tissue planes. So it will just drain out and it's a very superitive inflammatory process with draining sinus tracts, pus, yellow color, etc. So bottom line here, what I want you to take away, are there virulence factors in actinomyces? No, there are not. But because this is a normal flora of different mucosal barriers, if those mucosal barriers are injured, then this causes inflammation and that inflammation tends to be with draining sinus tracts, a yellow pus color or yellow sulfur granules. That's the bottom line. That yellow pus aspect is the most high yield. Now, clinically, this is really what you need to know. And this is what will separate actinomyces israelii from similar bacteria such as nocardia. So as the name implies, this leads to actinomyces. Actinomyces on your exam is very likely to be cervicofacial actinomyces. And more on that in just a second. As I said, this tends to be a superitive infection, but this is also granulomatous. And it causes these inflammatory nodules that tend to be draining. So they cause purulent draining fistulae that contain yellow sulfur granules and sinus draining tracts. Again, if you're like, dude, you've said that three times already. Yeah, that's because it's high yield and that's what you need to know. So yellow sulfur granules, sinus draining tracts, purulent, superitive, all of those gooey words and yellow words. Very, very important. Now, as I said, actinomyces can be cervicofacial, thoracic, abdominal, or pelvic. If I had to make a bet on your exam, it's very likely that they go after cervicofacial actinomyces because that is the classic manifestation. Now, in that case, in cervicofacial actinomyces, you tend to get swelling around the jaw. So this is going to be in the maxillary and mandibular region. And usually the patient will have a history of some type of oral procedure or dental caries or periodontitis. Now, again, the reason that this is happening is because the mucosal barrier in that area is breached. And then the actinomyces can cause a localized swelling or inflammation in the jaw. Now, this isn't just going to be cervicofacial. Like I said, you can get thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic manifestations. Thoracic and abdominal tend to be lower yield on exams. But just for completeness sake, in the thoracic manifestations, you see these vague URI symptoms, right? These upper respiratory infection symptoms. This can have hemoptysis and that hemoptysis can contain those characteristic yellow granules. But thoracic is a bit lower yield. Likewise, abdominal, lower yield, but causes nonspecific GI symptoms. And the big giveaway on your exam is a change in bowel habits. But these two, definitely not worth memorizing if you're pinched for time. Cervicofacial is the most important. And the second most important in my view is pelvic. Pelvic actinomycosis. So these tend to mimic gynecological tumors. So you might see symptoms including vaginal bleeding or discharge. And this causes pelvic inflammatory disease in women who have a history of using IUDs, intrauterine devices. Again, the thought being that when you breach the mucosal barrier that normally has actinomyces is rarely as a normal flora. Then it causes that localized infection, which spreads and causes sinus draining tracts. The yellow sulfur granules come out and so on and so forth. So bottom line from this slide. Know all the gooey yellow stuff. But know that on your exam, this is very likely to manifest with cervicofacial actinomycosis. In somebody with recent dental caries, periodontitis, or some type of recent oral procedure. And that caused the facial abscess to form because that mucosal barrier was breached. Likewise, in women know that this can present in sort of a pseudo pelvic inflammatory disease in women who use intrauterine devices. But this is really all you need to know. And it should be fairly straightforward on your exam. Now, as far as treatment goes, the medication of choice is going to be penicillin G, high dose penicillin G. But in somebody who has a penicillin allergy, you can use doxycycline, clindamycin, or erythromycin. Now, the easy mnemonic is that you need to associate actinomyces with that yellow, yellow granules, yellow drainage, pus, etc. So instead of saying actinomyces is railii, I say actinomyces is yellow. So it is yellow instead of it is railii. And that sounds really stupid, I understand, but if this gets you free points on test day, then we'll take it. So that's everything you need to know about actinomyces is railii. Thank you.

=== FILE: Amyloidosis [EaSTZkxn2Fk].txt ===

 » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » » proteins. Those proteins are going to clump outside of cells. And in doing so, they're going to damage certain organs. So before we go any further, let's understand something. Amyloid is extracellular. It has a beta pleated sheet structure. I know that you probably are like, oh, amyloid, that means Congo red. You have that buzzword association in your brain. To be honest with you, I don't think that's going to help you very much on your exam. But yes, it's true that amyloid will be Congo red positive. And when that Congo red positive is exposed to polarized light, it will demonstrate what's called apple green biofringence. That second part, that is historically what med students memorize and then sort of punt the rest of this topic. But that's not how you're going to score your points on today's US Emily. So again, I'm beating a dead horse here because I want you to understand that amyloidosis means misfolded proteins outside of cells that are either extracellular, they're beta pleated, but they're damaging certain cells and by extension, certain organs. And that's what we're going to talk about. So that amyloid, it can accumulate anywhere. It could be the heart, the liver, the kidney, the brain, the spleen, the tongue, the nerves, the vasculature. And you're going to see that depending on where the amyloid is depositing, that's going to lead to certain symptoms. And in different types of amyloidosis, there's a greater propensity for it to deposit in certain areas. So let's talk about how we classify amyloidosis. So when you see it on your exam, you're going to see the letter A and then another letter or another few letters. And that second letter, which I'm showing here in blue and representing with X, that can be a couple of different things, but that first letter A is never going to change. That first letter A means amyloid. The second letter tells you where the amyloid is coming from. So it can be AL, L for light chain. It can be AA, A for serum amyloid A, or it can be ATTR, TTR for transport protein transthyretin. So on your exam, you're going to be given different types of amyloidosis. And if we're talking about systemic, meaning throughout the body, amyloidosis, it's either going to be AL, AA, or ATTR. There are some other types, and we'll talk about them at the end of today's video. So let's start with AL, sometimes called primary amyloidosis. This is due to monoclonal plasma cell proliferation, which produces excessive amounts of misfolded light chains. And those light chains get deposited in different organs. So basically, think about AL, or primary amyloidosis, as plasma cells gone wild. As you have the proliferation of plasma cells, so too do you have a proliferation of immunoglobulin light chains. And you've got to have somewhere for the proliferated protein to end up. And unfortunately, in the case of primary amyloidosis, it ends up in places like the heart, the kidneys, and the nerve. So what you want to think about are some disease associations where you might see AL, primary amyloidosis. So think about things like the classic example is multiple myeloma, but also Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, MGUS, or smoldering myeloma, restrictive cardiomyopathy. Again, I told you that it ends up in the heart, peripheral neuropathy, because it can end up in the nerves, nephrotic syndrome, because it can end up in the kidney, and hepatosplenomegaly. So on your exam, what this typically will look like is generally an older patient presenting with either restrictive cardiomyopathy or nephrotic syndrome, they may give you a monoclonal spike. And if you're hearing that, you got to think, oh, it's AL amyloidosis. Now, I want to point something out here, because you'll note that throughout the various types of amyloidosis, you can have the amyloid depositing in the heart and the kidney. And that sometimes confuses medical students, because you're like, all right, I'm seeing a nephrotic syndrome, but how do I know which type of amyloidosis I'm dealing with? In the case of AL amyloidosis, the course tends to be more rapidly progressive compared to the other types. And that should make sense, because this is due again to monoclonal plasma cell proliferation. And that is a much faster process. If you think about cells kind of like rapidly producing and rapidly proliferating, that grows, and that happens at a much faster rate. And that's why the course of primary amyloidosis tends to be much more rapidly progressive. And you can kind of use that as a hint on your exam, if you have a nephrotic syndrome, and you're not sure if it's AL or AA. And this also tends to be the most common form of amyloidosis period. So I say that to say that if you're taking step two or level two, and you have to guess based on more of an epidemiology type of approach, you might just want to guess AL if you have symptoms of amyloidosis, just because it's more common period. Now to be clear, these disease associations, they're important. But if I was the test writer, here's what I'm going after. Two very unique presentations, unique to AL amyloidosis. So on the left, you have what is sometimes referred to as raccoon eyes. This is periorbital cutaneous ecchymosis. And basically, the misfolded protein is just going to accumulate in the blood vessels around the eyes. So somebody has a sudden onset of looking like a raccoon. Yeah, it's AL amyloidosis. Likewise, it can be deposited into the tongue. So it can also present with macroglossia, right? Big tongue. So if you see raccoon eyes or big tongue, stop, do not pass go. The answer is AL amyloidosis. Of course, if we're talking about an amyloid related question. So my mnemonic here, AL amyloidosis, I know people always are like the L means light chain. I don't think that helps you on exams unless the test writer's explicitly asking you, what is the pathophysiological cause? Well, yeah, then you would need to know that. But for me, I've always thought about monoclonal, AL for AL amyloidosis, and animal. And animal to me means raccoon with a big tongue. For some reason, I just think raccoons have big tongues. Somebody, if you know, if you're like a vet or know a vet, tell me if raccoons actually have big tongues, because I've been using this mnemonic for years. But AL amyloidosis, AL for monoclonal. And in my brain, I'm like, okay, monoclonal, that means IG light chain. That means it's rapidly progressive because of that cellular proliferation. And animal for raccoon eyes and tongue. Yes, again, you got to know those other disease associations, but I feel like this gives you a bit of an edge. So bottom line here, AL primary amyloidosis, plasma cells gone wild, immunoglobulin light chain deposition, highly associated with multiple myeloma, heart, kidneys, nerves, think older patient presenting with either restrictive cardiomyopathy, nephrotic syndrome, or a monoclonal spike. And if the test writer is like me, they're going to give you the animal symptoms, right? The raccoon eyes and the big tongue. So that is your primary AL amyloidosis. Now let's switch gears and talk about AA, sometimes called secondary, sometimes called reactive amyloidosis. So this is due to excessive amounts of serum amyloid A, which is an acute phase reactant that results from chronic inflammation. And as there's more inflammation over time, and more serum amyloid A, because again, when you have inflammation, you're going to have these acute phase reactants being formed, that gets deposited into various tissues. Now you can see my disease associations here. This typically is associated with rheumatoid arthritis, with types of inflammatory bowel disease. It presents with nephrotic syndrome, which is why I bolded that. It's associated with lupus, vasculitis, chronic infections, something called familial Mediterranean fever, certain types of malignancies, which most often tend to be lymphomas or renal cell carcinoma, and can present with primary adrenal insufficiency. So this is a pretty big list. And if that feels overwhelming to you, I want you to relax and just think about this as AA is associated with inflammation. So chronic inflammation over time, acute phase reactants are forming, they've got to go somewhere. Where do they go? Well, they most often end up in the kidneys, which is why AA reactive secondary amyloidosis tends to present with a nephrotic syndrome. So on your exam, if you've got a patient with a long history of inflammatory diseases, so in the vignette, they're going to say patient has a past medical history of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, vasculitis, lupus, they're going to throw a bunch of inflammatory things at you. And they're going to tell you it's been going on for a long time. And now your patient is suddenly presenting with proteinuria. That is AA amyloidosis, if they're if they're going after amyloidosis. I want to point out something here. This is the most common form of amyloidosis in children, which I think should make a little bit of sense to you because it's due to inflammation. So if you have an unfortunate young patient who has chronic inflammation, they're more likely to experience secondary reactive amyloidosis, because they're not at that age yet where there's that primary monoclonal cell proliferation that we just talked about with AL amyloidosis. So big takeaway here, my mnemonic AA is associated with inflammation, you can see it in adolescence, right in kids, and it's going to present with a nephrotic syndrome. And that last one is pretty stupid. But the A helps me remember, because nephrotic syndrome is associated with various types of amyloidosis, that typically the presentation of an immune mediated or a reactive or a secondary amyloidosis, that's going to be nephrotic syndrome. And that's really important to understand when you're thinking about how the test writer will write the question on USMLE. All right, let's talk about ATTR, sometimes called transthyretin amyloidosis. This is due to deposited, misfolded transthyretin protein. The interesting thing about this type of amyloidosis is that this can either be hereditary or age-related. In the case of it being hereditary, patients can have a TTR gene mutation, which essentially messes up the transthyretin protein, leads to the deposition. The age-related type, sometimes called the wild type, that's just a byproduct of aging. So it's unfortunate, but it happens. Now typically, this will be associated with some type of polyneuropathy. That can be peripheral, that can be autonomic. And we tend to see a polyneuropathy more in that hereditary type of ATTR amyloidosis. But to be clear, the presentation can either be neuropathy or cardiomyopathy. It doesn't matter if the cause is hereditary or age-related. If somebody is presenting with some type of symptom of cardiomyopathy, with some type of polyneuropathy, you want to think ATTR amyloidosis. So on the exam, usually this will be an elderly patient, tends to be an elderly man. They might present with signs and symptoms of some mild heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. They may give you a history of something like the carpal tunnel syndrome. I've seen that before, but think polyneuropathy, cardiomyopathy in an elderly individual. Elderly is trying to insinuate that this might be age-related and that should point you toward ATTR amyloidosis. To be clear, this is not as high yield as AL or AA. So if you're like at the point in the video where you're like, dude, I can't stuff all this into my brain. This is probably the one to punt. All right, let's talk about hemodialysis-associated amyloidosis. So this is due to beta-2 microglobulin depositing into the joints, tendons, and the bones. So this is associated with hemodialysis because beta-2 microglobulin is not really efficiently removed during dialysis. That is a component of MHC-1 for all of you immunology lovers out there. And because it's not removed by dialysis, what happens? It gets deposited. And where it gets deposited explains the symptoms. So it gets deposited into joints, tendons, and bones. So it presents with things like carpal tunnel syndrome, scapulohumeral periarthritis, and cysts, bony cysts to be exact. So in hemodialysis, I always think hemodialysis-associated is HA, and HA presents in the hand. And in my brain, I'm like, oh, the hand, that's joints, that's carpal tunnel. Makes sense. Hopefully that helps you. Last thing that we'll talk about is organ-specific amyloidosis. So this is a localized deposition of amyloid in a singular organ. And I want to be very clear here. If you look at my disease associations, you can see how this is associated with different disease processes. And the reason that this is important for exams is because these are localized. Think about what we talked about with AL and AA amyloidosis. The disease association list was like what? Five to ten deep, right? It can come in the kidneys. It can come in the heart. It can come in the joints. It can come in the vessels. This is one organ. So let's go through these associations. The biggest one is Alzheimer's dementia, Alzheimer's disease. And this is due to beta amyloid protein getting cleaved from amyloid precursor protein. So obviously this is in the brain only in Alzheimer's. We also have an association with type 2 diabetes. So patients on your exam with a history of type 2 diabetes can get amyloidosis in the pancreas. The pancreas only, right? We're not talking about systemic amyloidosis. We're talking about localized. In this case, it's due to islet amyloid polypeptide or IAPP, which is released in the pancreatic islet cells with insulin. So if you have a patient with type 2 diabetes, you can get amyloidosis in the pancreas. Process of normal aging. So there doesn't have to be like a disease process necessarily. As a byproduct of normal aging, you get something called atrial natriuretic peptide getting released. And that actually increases the risk of atrial fibrillation. So pretty interesting that it's a byproduct of normal aging, but as that atrial natriuretic peptide gets released and gets deposited, it actually increases the risk for a disease in AFib. So there is some cardiac amyloidosis possible. Medullary thyroid carcinoma, this is a big one. So the amyloid stroma is derived from calcitonin. So this is calcitonin associated. Obviously this is only in the thyroid. So if you have a patient with medullary thyroid carcinoma, you can get some amyloidosis. And then the last one that I just want you to be aware of is cerebral amyloid angiopathy. This is due to AB amyloid accumulation in the cerebral blood vessels. And the reason that we care about this one is that that can actually lead to cerebral hemorrhage. So pretty important to understand. So on your exam, kind of just to keep this stupid and keep this simple, some of the clues that you could be given and what you want to think about. So if they're giving you brain plaques, you want to think about Alzheimer's. If they're giving you something pancreatic related, think about amylin, think about type two diabetes. If they give you a thyroid tumor plus amyloid, think about a medullary thyroid carcinoma. And that's pretty much it. The last thing I'll say is again, I know med students love the Congo red stain and the apple green biofringent. So let's just close on this. So yes, on exams, the amyloid will stain positive for Congo red. And then when you put that Congo red under polarized light, it reveals what you see here in apple green biofringents. And that is suggestive or indicative of these amyloid fibrils being abnormally deposited into tissue. So like, you know, 20 years ago, this was a really big buzzword, big picture on US Emily and Comlex, but over the years, it has been so overdone and over buzzworded, if that makes sense that I really don't think this is going to show up. But hey, you should know it. So that's amyloidosis. I my goal was to keep that simple and really reduce it down to something more palatable. I hope that that made sense to you. But at the end of the day, just remember, AL is monoclonal. AA is inflammation. TTR, kind of that older male type of picture with, you know, heart issue, cardiomyopathy, polyneuropathy, hemodialysis associated in the hand. So you're getting your carpal tunnel, your joint associated, and then the organ specifics that we just talked about. So not too difficult when you break it down, but keep up the good work.

=== FILE: Aphasia (Broca vs. Wernicke vs. Conduction vs. Global vs. Transcortical) [HpOaVyhuMW4].txt ===

 In this video, I will teach you everything that you need to know about aphasia to both pass your exams, so USMLE and COMLEX, but also get a jump start on some basic terminology and key differences that you might find useful if you're doing something like neurology rotation or an internal medicine rotation. Aphasia is confusing because there are various different types of aphasia and many of them have overlapping features. So let's start with a brief overview. blue here, that describes what the patient can do speech-wise. So in the case of Broca aphasia, Broca is a non-fluent aphasia, which means speech-wise they are non-fluent. It's also described descriptively as an expressive aphasia, and this describes what they have trouble with. So in the case of Broca aphasia, they have trouble expressing themselves. This is the reason that they are non-fluent. So these are descriptive terms that are interchangeable that you might see on your exam or on your clinical rotations. So Broca aphasia, when we look at Broca aphasia, we've already established that this is a non-repetition aphasia. So I started you off with the big question, is repetition intact? The answer was no, it was impaired. Now all we need to understand is whether the patient is fluent and whether the patient can comprehend. Now I've kind of given it away already because we just talked about that one way of describing Broca aphasia is a non-fluent or expressive aphasia, which literally means they're non-fluent, so they don't have fluency, and they have trouble with expression, which is another way of describing non-fluency. So right off the bat, we know that Broca aphasia, the patients are non-fluent. We already know that they do not have repetition because we've created these two broad categories, but they do have intact comprehension. Broca aphasia is due to damage to the inferior frontal gyrus, which if you are in your anatomy classes is Brodman areas 44 and 45. Now the way that Broca patients will present to you is that they will be aware of their speech and language deficits, and this will make them frustrated and will make them upset. Their words will be contextually correct and intelligible, but spontaneous speech and grammatical structure is diminished. So let's do an example. Let's say that a patient with Broca aphasia intends to say the phrase, I want a cookie now. The patient would instead say something along the lines of, I want a cookie. So as you can see, the context is correct. The words are intelligible, right? The words make sense, but the grammatical structure and the spontaneity or the fluency is diminished. And so there's this hesitancy of speech because the patients are non-fluent, but that context and that structure is correct because comprehension is intact. These patients will feel like they know what they want to say, but they can't produce the right words. Again, this is a problem with fluency, a problem with expression. Patients will be unable to translate the mental image in their head to the words and language that they are producing. So big picture here, Broca aphasia, they understand, they know what they want to say, but they can't say it. And because this is not a transcortical aphasia, repetition is impaired. So the mnemonic here is that in Broca's, speech is b-r-o-k-n. And the reason I said it like that is Broca's is broken. A lot of people say Broca's is broken. But if you say the word broken, like how somebody who has a non-fluent aphasia might say it, it'll help you memorize what the speech pattern looks like. And I think that that's important and valuable for you because there could be a possibility that you're taking your exam and they give you a video of a patient who has Broca aphasia and simply ask you either something like, what's the aphasia? Obviously you'd pick Broca's, or they might even say, where is the lesion in the brain? What Brodman area are you dealing with? And so you want to associate the actual prosody and pattern of the speech with the aphasia. So that's Broca's aphasia. Again, you got to know this table. They're non-fluent. They do have comprehension. They can't repeat. Broca's speech is broken. Now let's do Wernicke aphasia. Again, fluent describes what they can do speech-wise. So these patients are fluent. So they have fluency. And this is described as a receptive aphasia. So they have trouble with reception, which is another way of saying comprehension. So in Wernicke aphasia, as I just said, it is fluent. However, comprehension is impaired. And as we've already established several slides ago, repetition is impaired because this is not a transcortical aphasia. So if you walked up to a patient and you said, please repeat the phrase, no ifs, ands, or buts, a patient with Wernicke aphasia would not be able to do that. This is due to damage to the posterior superior temporal gyrus. For you anatomy fans out there, this is Brodman area number 22. These patients tend to not be aware of their deficits. They tend not to be as upset as a patient with Broca aphasia. Their speech will have normal prosody, normal fluency, and grammatical rules because again, a Wernicke aphasia is fluent. However, they usually will have paraphasic errors, which means that they'll substitute syllables, sounds, and phonemes, and they'll form new words, which are called neologisms. Collectively, what this will sound like is word salad. So if a patient is talking to you with normal rhythm, with normal prosody, with normal grammatical rules, but the words is just word salad. There's some new words in there, syllables are switched around, phonemes are switched around. It doesn't make sense. The sentence structure is Wernicke aphasia. So it's very, very typical to see a very big word salad in Wernicke aphasia. And so obviously my mnemonic here is that in Wernicke, speech is Wernicke. Wernicke to mean very wordy, very word salad-y. In Wernicke, speech is Wernicke. You got to know this table. Wernicke aphasia is a fluent aphasia. So yes, they are fluent, but no, they don't understand. And because they don't understand, they don't have comprehension, the sentence structure has good and normal rhythm, but it's word salad. It will not make sense. And obviously, I'm going to keep repeating this so that you memorize it. Because this is not a transcortical aphasia, repetition is impaired. In Wernicke, speech is Wernicke. Now let's talk about a conduction aphasia. This is also described as an associative aphasia, which as that descriptor implies, patients have difficulty associating language, which is a fancy way of saying connecting the Broca and Wernicke's area. Now, obviously, that is, I'm taking a leap there to say that. But this is due to damage to the arcuate fasciculus of the parietal lobe, which has a white matter tract that connects Broca and Wernicke's area. So the reason that I said that they have problems with association is because in my brain, what that means is that the tract that associates Broca and Wernicke's area, there's damage there. And that tract is known as the arcuate fasciculus. So in a conduction aphasia, patients will be fluent, patients will understand, but they can't repeat. And so if you think about what Wernicke's area does, and you think about what Broca's area does, the arcuate fasciculus is really important for integrating and connecting those two areas. So patients will understand the language because Wernicke area is intact, which I could say in another way, patients will have intact comprehension. Patients will be able to produce the speech and be fluent because their Broca's area is intact. However, they cannot transmit information from Wernicke's to Broca's, which means they can't transmit their understanding of language to their fluency or expression of language. And therefore, they can't repeat language, because that arcuate fasciculus is impaired. This is not the scientifically correct way to think about on a biochemical or pathophysiological level what's really happening here. But it makes sense in my brain because that arcuate fasciculus, that white matter tract, can't integrate these two areas. And in my brain, I'm like, okay, that's the reason that repetition is impaired. So in a conduction aphasia, patients cannot repeat, and they'll have phonological sequencing errors. And this will be especially prominent with polysyllabic sentences. Patients will make phonemic paraphasic errors, and they can generate neologisms, even though their comprehension is intact. They might use semantic routes to approximate the word that they want to say and try to self-correct mistakes. So if they keep talking, eventually they can approach the right word and get closer to sounding like they want, sounding like the word they want to say, but they have difficulty naming objects. So a conduction aphasia, I'll be honest, this description is less important. My experience on exams has been that if they want you to go after a conduction aphasia, they're going to describe the patient to you, and they're going to ask you to identify the arcuate fasciculus, either by arrow or by area, etc. So the way that I've always memorized this is when I think of conduction aphasia, I think of the conductor. And the conductor is the connection between the orchestra and the audience. And I drew that little arcing arrow in there because that's kind of looks to me like where the arcuate fasciculus connects Broca and Wernicke area. Without the conductor, the orchestra cannot repeat the music. And that always reminded me that with a conduction aphasia, fluency is fine, comprehension is fine, right? The orchestra can be fluent and make the music. The audience comprehends and understands the music, but without the conductor or in a conduction aphasia, the orchestra can't repeat the music. So repetition is impaired. I know that's stupid, but hey, if it works, it works. And then let's close here with global aphasia. Admittedly, of the impaired repetition aphasias, this is the least likely to show up on your exam. But it is the most common type of aphasia. And in a global aphasia, everything's impaired. There's no fluency, there's no comprehension. And because this is not a transcortical aphasia, repetition is impaired. And it should make sense to you that this is due to damage to all of Broca Wernicke and the arcuate fasciculus. So everywhere you see purple arrows here, if everything gets knocked out, there's no fluency, there's no Wernicke, or excuse me, there's no fluency, there's no comprehension, and there's no repetition. These patients will be mute or mutter only basic sounds. And they tend to express themselves with extremely basic facial gestures because all of their language areas are impaired. So before we go into the transcortical aphasias and kind of switch gears a bit, here is a summary slide. I don't like tables, as most of you know, but I think this can be useful if you're just looking to rehash some of what we've talked about. Again, in a Broca aphasia, you're looking at a non-fluent aphasia, but with intact comprehension. The damage is in the inferior frontal gyrus. In a Wernicke aphasia, you have fluency. However, you don't have comprehension. This is due to damage in the temporal lobe to the posterior superior temporal gyrus. In a conduction aphasia, that's due to damage to the arcuate fasciculus. Comprehension is intact, and fluency is intact, but they can't repeat. And in a global aphasia, the most common type of aphasia, everything is impaired. And what separates these types of aphasias from a transcortical aphasia is that in all of them, repetition is impaired. And that is a dead giveaway for how, again, I look at this flowchart. Can they repeat? If no, you're dealing with the common Broca, Wernicke, conduction, and global. If they can repeat, you're looking at a transcortical aphasia. So those are the higher yield ones for USMLE and Comlex. If you don't care about transcortical aphasias and you want to stop here, this is a point where you can jump off this video. But for completeness sake, let's talk about transcortical aphasias. So let's start with transcortical, transcortical motor aphasias. The way that I conceptualize transcortical aphasias is that they're basically the Broca and Wernicke, etc. Like they're basically the aphasias that we just talked about. They just have the ability to do repetition. And so when we look at transcortical motor, they have problems with fluency, right? So they're non-fluent, but they have intact comprehension and they have intact repetition because now we're talking about transcortical and all of the transcortical aphasias have intact repetition. Now this is due to damage to the supplementary motor area in the frontal lobe. So what you can think of with transcortical motor is that this is essentially Broca, but with repetition. Because if you cover up repetition and look at just fluency and comprehension, it follows the exact same pattern as Broca. The only difference here is that they can repeat the phrase, no ifs, ands, or buts, or whatever other phrase the clinician uses to test their repetition. So transcortical motor, just think of that as Broca plus repetition. Likewise, transcortical sensory is basically Wernicke plus repetition. So let's look at this. Transcortical sensory, they do have fluency, so they are fluent, but they have impaired comprehension. If you covered up repetition here, being fluent but not comprehending is Wernicke's. Wernicke's, they can't repeat, but in transcortical sensory, they can repeat. So transcortical sensory, that is Wernicke's plus repetition. Now this is due to damage to the inferior left temporal lobe. I know that's a general area. Don't really worry about pinpointing the anatomy on the transcortical aphasias because the anatomical locations tend to be less precise, hence the word transcortical. However, transcortical sensory equals Wernicke plus repetition. And then there's this thing called transcortical mixed. In transcortical mixed, they are non-fluent, they do not comprehend, but they have intact repetition. This is due to damage to the watershed areas surrounding the language centers. I'm not that concerned with transcortical mixed. I think if you're studying just for exams, understanding transcortical motor and transcortical sensory is more than sufficient. But what I want you to take away, just to really make this make sense in your brain, is that transcortical motor is basically Broca's plus repetition, and that transcortical sensory is basically Wernicke's plus repetition. And so my mnemonic for memorizing that is motor mimics Broca and sensory is similar to Cernicke. Now obviously I changed the B in Broca to an M and the W in Wernicke to an S to make this mnemonic easier to memorize, but motor or transcortical motor mimics Broca. So transcortical motor equals Broca plus repetition. Sensory is similar to Cernicke. So transcortical sensory is basically Wernicke or Cernicke plus repetition. And again, the reason that I think that this is useful for you if you're studying for exams is that if you memorize what Broca is and you memorize what Wernicke is, then if you take that one step further using this mnemonic, you also know what transcortical motor is and you also know what transcortical sensory is without really doing a lot of additional thinking because it's basically Broca and Wernicke plus the ability to do repetition. So I hope that that makes sense. I'm trying to simplify this for you. Motor mimics Broca. Sensory is similar to Cernicke.

=== FILE: Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) [DNVy4tdExm0].txt ===

 themmmondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondondond cases. In the sporadic type, there's no known cause. There's familial type, which is somewhere around 14 to maybe 15% of all cases. This is due to a mutation in the PRNP gene that causes glutamic acid to get replaced by lysine. And then that leads to formation of misfolded prions, which we'll talk about in pathophysiology. And then lastly, there is the acquired subtype, not really relevant for the purposes of exams, but just kind of an interesting aside. Acquired is when there's things like a contaminated piece of equipment in certain surgical procedures. So this has historically been associated with things like corneal transplants, for example. So the big thing to take away from CJD is the pathophysiology here. So normally there are prions. They get encoded by the gene. I mentioned them on the last slide. It's the PRNP gene, and they exist in alpha helical configurations. These are found on the membranes, or I guess the surfaces for the purposes of this illustration of cortical neurons. And so what happens here is that when the protein, when the prion gets misfolded and it goes from being mostly alpha helical to being beta pleated, then that is where the problem arises. So there's this misfolded protein now that should be alpha helical, but now it's in beta pleated sheets. And when it does that, it leads to a host of problems. So your normal prions, which are alpha helical shown in orange, get changed into more beta pleated shown in green. This makes the prions insoluble. And when they're insoluble, they are resistant to proteases. So in other words, they can't be broken down. And so if they can't be broken down, then what happens is they induce even more conformational changes in the normal, more alpha helical prions into these abnormally folded beta pleated sheets. And what happens is it's like a self-fulfilling prophecy here. You get more accumulation and more self-propagation of these misfolded proteins. And over time, that leads to plaque formation, vacualization, and ultimately cell death. So for this reason, this is why this is sometimes referred to as a spongiform encephalopathy, because as the cell death occurs, and as that vacualization occurs, it leads to neuronal cell death. But when you physically look at a specimen or histopathological image of the brain tissue, you see vacualization, and it looks spongiform. That's where that word comes from. So bottom line here, the problem is that alpha helical proteins get turned into beta pleated proteins, which causes even more conformational change, self-propagation, plaque formation, vacualization, and cell death. So not super complex, but definitely worth, knowing. Clinically, this is how they're going to give it to you on exams. They're going to throw out some buzzwords and expect you to identify that this is CJD. So the most important thing, I'm actually going to jump to the third item listed here, rapidly progressive dementia. So this is really, really important because when they give it to you on an exam, they're going to give you a patient who has these symptoms that are dementia-related symptoms, but they started like a week ago. Two weeks ago at the most. It's going to be within zero to two weeks, as opposed to something like Alzheimer's dementia, where obviously that presentation is going to evolve over a longer period of time. Now going back up to the top, we see things like cerebellar dysfunction, myoclonus. This is a big one, and this is sometimes referred to as startle myoclonus. So what startle myoclonus refers to is that some startling stimulus will put the patient into a state of myoclonus, which is those involuntary brief muscle twitches. And then at the bottom here, we see neuropsychiatric symptoms. There's a host of them, things like visual hallucinations, akinetic mutism, personality changes, seizures, sleep disorders. Ataxia really should be at the top with cerebellar dysfunction and dysautonomia. So all of these things together are the clinical features of CJD. And the mnemonic to memorize this is, surprise, CJD. C for cerebellar dysfunction, J for jerkiness, which is my way of memorizing myoclonus, because myoclonus is again, sort of those brief, almost shock-like muscle twitches. And they are startle myoclonus in the case of CJD. But J for jerkiness, and then D for dementia, specifically rapidly progressive. So CJD, cerebellar, jerking, and dementia. That kind of helps me remember exactly what goes into CJD. But on your exam, the test writer is not going to tell you it's rapidly progressive dementia. Med students have this really bad habit of being like, all right, I'm not really going to memorize Kutzfeldt-Jakob disease. I'm just going to memorize if I see rapidly progressive dementia, that equals CJD. But the test writer is not going to say, hey, this is rapidly progressive dementia. They're going to give you like a 60-ish year old patient who has dementia symptoms that started one week ago. Maybe they give you some other buzzwords, but you need to put two and two together to identify that this is rapidly progressive. So I really wouldn't count on that being in your vignette. I mean, they'll tell you when it started, but you're looking for things like the myoclonus, the ataxia, and then a couple other buzzwords, which I will mention now. So on the EEG, you see triphasic, periodic, sharp wave complexes. And I'm not even going to bother to show you what these look like because you don't need to know what it looks like. But if you see a picture of an EEG and it's given to you in the context of somebody with myoclonus, you can just assume, if you want to take a guess and not commit any more brain space to this, that they're going after CJD. These tend to be like one to two hertz. Again, you don't need to know that, but I just point that out because if they include one to two hertz in the vignette, they're pushing you in the direction of CJD. Histopathologically, I already mentioned this, but you're looking for those intracytoplasmic vacuoles within the neurons. And again, that's termed spongiform because of that vacuolation or vacuolization. I really struggled to say that word as the neurons die. And now when we think about the EEG findings, I told you that the mnemonic is CJD. CJD is three letters and tri equals three. So triphasic sharp wave complexes, tri equals three. There's three letters in CJD. So when I see triphasic, I'm always like, wait, which is the neurological disease that means three? CJD. And I'm done. CSF findings are also really important. The big one is 14-3-3 protein. So elevated 14-3-3 in the CSF, that is a signal of neuron death and cell destruction. And so that's why that's elevated in patients with CJD. So if you see increased 14-3-3, that is a stop, do not pass, go, select CJD as your answer type of situation here. But sometimes the test writer will be a real jerk and they won't give you that. And they'll instead say S-100 protein or tau protein or protein specific enolase. Sometimes they'll write neuron specific enolase. It means the same thing, but 14-3-3, that is a dead giveaway for CJD. And I told you the mnemonic is CJD. CJD has how many letters, guys and girls? Three. And you see in 14-3-3, there's a lot of threes. So 14-3-3 equals three. What has three? CJD. I feel like I'm reading a Dr. Seuss book here to you, but there you go. So CJD, really, really important. It will get differentiated on your exam against some other disease processes where you see either dementia, although that typically won't show up because it's really easy to know like this dementia has been getting worse over the past 6-12 months versus this one in the case of CJD has been like 0-2 weeks. So usually where the test writer will go is they'll go after a differential that includes myoclonus. So you think about what other disease processes or what other syndromes will cause myoclonus. So you want to be thinking, of course, of CJD in this case, but also about things like subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, some types of viral encephalitis, juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, and then some other, you know, like serotonin syndrome, for example. So anything that can cause myoclonus, you want to put this in your differential and ask yourself, what would the test writer need to give me to make me think that this was CJD instead of one of those other things that I just mentioned? Lastly, I didn't bother to do a slide on treatment because unfortunately there's no cure or treatment for CJD. Usually if somebody is diagnosed with this, they die within about the following year. So current treatment guidelines really are just supportive treatment and usually palliative measures. So that's CJD. Just remember the mnemonic CJD, which means three, so if you see three, it's CJD. the the

=== FILE: Infective Endocarditis [d59tT6o3SIU].txt ===

 Let's talk about what you need to know, Let's talk about what you need to know, regarding infective endocarditis, this topic on the high yield scale from 0 to 10, where 0 is never shows up on USMLE or Comlex, and 10 is always shows up on USMLE or Comlex, this is a 10 out of 10. This is one of those topics that you absolutely 1000% need to know, because as you'll see, this is a really great topic that connects pretty much every category that you need to know for your exam. führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to führt to really important to know. So let's start with an overview. Infective endocarditis refers to inflammation of the endocardium, right? It's endocarditis, meaning it's itis of the endocardium or inflammation of the endocardium. Typically, this will affect the inner valves of the heart, and this will manifest as cardiovascular symptoms plus extra cardiac symptoms outside of the heart. More on that in a few slides. When we talk about infective endocarditis, it's really important to differentiate acute endocarditis from subacute endocarditis. Now, just if this wasn't obvious already, acute is more rapid, more severe. Subacute is slower, more insidious onset with milder symptoms. In the case of acute endocarditis, this tends to affect healthy pre-existing native valves. In the case of subacute endocarditis, this tends to affect some type of pre-damaged or defective valves. So bottom line here, acute endocarditis is rapid, severe, affecting what was previously a healthy valve. Subacute is slower, more insidious, milder, but it's affecting damaged valves that existed in their pre-damaged state before the endocarditis occurred. Really important to understand on your exams are the different etiologies that cause acute versus subacute endocarditis. So let's run through these. The most important is staph aureus. Staph aureus is your most common cause of acute infective endocarditis. It tends to affect healthy valves, and a major risk factor is intravenous drug abuse. If somebody has staph aureus-induced acute endocarditis, the vegetations that you see on top of the valves tend to be extremely large, and that can be a big clue on test day. If they describe these really large vegetations, that might suggest that you're dealing with staph aureus. But most important thing to know, staph aureus equals most common cause of acute endocarditis, and intravenous drug abuse is a major risk factor for this. Jumping down to viridin's strep. So this is the most common cause of subacute endocarditis. This is the most common cause of subacute. So right off the bat, just epidemiology, especially if you're taking step two or step three, understand that viridin's strep is your most common cause of subacute, whereas staph aureus is your most common cause of acute. And the reason that that's important is if you're taking your exam, particularly if you're taking Comlex, which is notorious for being very vague with the way they ask questions, and you're making a total guess as to whether it's staph or viridin's, or consequently, if it's acute or subacute, you could guess based simply on the presentation. If you think, for example, okay, I'm probably dealing with subacute because they described this insidious onset of somewhat mild symptoms. I think it's subacute. Therefore, I'm going to guess viridin's because I know that epidemiologically, viridin's is the most common cause of subacute endocarditis. So that's a way that you can train your brain to be more clinically oriented when you're dealing with step two and step three, in particular on Comlex level two and Comlex level three. The big one to note for viridin's is that it is often a complication of dental procedures. So if they're describing somebody that recently had dental work done a few weeks prior to this insidious subacute onset, that should really suggest to you that you're dealing with strep viridin's. If we look at staph epidermidis, really the key here is that this infects, it comes from infected peripheral venous catheters. So this causes another subacute endocarditis. And another risk factor here would be a prosthetic heart valve. So that's staph epidermidis. Basically just prosthetic valves from peripheral venous catheters. That should make you think staph epidermidis. Strep gallolyticus, aka strep bovis. So this is going to be in the setting of colon cancer. So if you're taking your exam and they describe somebody who has endocarditis, and then they ask you what is the next step in treatment or what's the next test you should order, and you're not seeing any of the answer choices that you would typically associate with the next best step as it relates to endocarditis. Cardiovascularly speaking, you're actually going to pick colonoscopy here because what the test writer is suggesting to you is that the patient actually has colon cancer and you need the confirmatory test for colon cancer. So bottom line, strep bovis, strep gallolyticus, that causes endocarditis specifically in the setting of colon cancer. Enterococcus faecalis. This is going to be after a nosocomial urinary tract infection, occasionally following some type of GI or GU procedure. So keep that in the back of your mind. GI, GU procedure, or nosocomial UTI. Big buzzwords for enterococcus. The Hasek group, this is associated with poor dental hygiene or recent periodontal infections. So you might be thinking like, whoa, you said dental stuff equals viridins. That is correct. But in general, the Hasek group is going to suggest that you're dealing with a patient that has poor dental hygiene or a periodontal infection in general. It does not necessarily mean that they had a recent dental procedure, which was complicated by infection with viridin strep. So I know that can be a point of confusion, but just keep those separate in your brain. And then lastly, your fungal category here. So things like candida, aspergillus, et cetera. Obviously these are fungal infections. So this is going to occur in immunosuppressed patients, which is to say patients with organ transplants, HIV, AIDS, et cetera. So these are some etiologies. Big thing I want you to walk away from this slide understanding is that staph aureus is your most common cause of acute endocarditis, highly associated with intravenous drug abuse. Viridin is your most common cause of subacute, highly associated with being a complication of a recent dental procedure. Epidermitis, think prosthetics. Galiliticus, think colon cancer. Enterococcus, think nosocomial UTI or GIGU procedures. And fungal, think immunosuppressed patients. If you can do that, that's very buzzy. You'll be well prepared for these types of questions. Now let's switch gears and talk about pathophysiology. So big picture before I get into this is that what causes endocarditis is there's some type of prodromal endocardial damage. Basically something happens that exposes the endocardium. Then you have bacteremia, which is to say you have the seeding of bacteria from some downstream or localized infection. And the combination of that exposed endothelium with bacteria getting to that exposed endothelium, that is what leads to endocarditis. So with that as the big picture, let's get into the nitty gritty. So first step, you have endocardial damage. Now for many patients, that's just going to be due to some type of turbulent blood flow around pre-diseased valves. And as that turbulent blood flow kind of erodes the valve further, that exposes the damaged endocardium, and that creates a nidus for bacterial infection. In the case of intravenous drug abuse, every time somebody shoots intravenous drugs, they are literally injecting particulate matter. And as that particulate matter flows over the valve, it degrades it. It's kind of like on a microscopic level, sandblasting the valve with some type of particulate in the blood. But both of these, functionally speaking, turbulent flow over a diseased valve or particulates from intravenous drug abuse, functionally they're doing the same thing. They are eroding and degrading a valve and exposing a potential site for bacteremia to occur. Now then when that happens, you get platelet fiber and adherence. So as you're hopefully familiar with by now, the coagulation cascade is activated. And as this happens and as platelets and fiber and adhere, you get the formation of a sterile, non-bacterial thrombotic vegetation. And I want to be very clear here. There's a vegetation that forms, but it is non-bacterial yet, or it's not bacterial at this moment. Yes, there's a vegetation. Yes, there is a thrombosis, right? There's a thrombotic vegetation, but there is no bacterial seeding yet. It is these circumstances plus what we're about to talk about that creates endocarditis. So I'm going to pause for a second. Endocardium gets damaged. Turbulent blood flow, particulate matter from IV drug abuse, there's endocardial damage. Coagulation cascade is activated. You have the formation of a thrombotic vegetation. Now, next step, localized infection. To be clear, this does not have to be in the heart. Any source of bacteria in the body can ultimately flow over a damaged endocardium because all blood returns to the heart. And that is what causes endocarditis. So some source, some localized source of distant bacteremia enters the blood supply and makes its way over the heart where that preexisting endocardial damage occurred. At this point, that bacteria colonizes what you just had as a previously non-bacterial sterile thrombotic vegetation. When that bacterial colonization occurs, you have a few things happening. One, more fibrin clots are forming. Two, more degrading and more destruction of that valve occurs. Three, this is now a bacterial thromboemboli that's forming. So it's no longer sterile. It is, yes, it's a vegetation, but now it's bacterial. Now it is septic. You get vessel occlusion, infarctions, and immune complex formation. So basically, the heart valve and the endocardium is further degraded. There's more inflammation. There's more coagulation, right? More fibrin clots, more valve destruction, more thromboembolic events. And in the heart, but also distant in other organs throughout the body that the blood is flowing to, you throw off these thromboemboli and create these septic embolic events. And what that leads to is vessel occlusion and infarction. And the body trying to deal with this is forming immune complexes. We know that if you've studied a little bit of immunology, that anytime the body forms immune complexes, that leads to other extracardiac, meaning outside of the heart, complications. So this is an unfortunate cascade of events that started with endocardial damage, but then the coagulation cascade and the inflammatory cascade made it worse. Then there was a source of bacteria introduced that flowed over that damaged endocardium. And now finally, you end up with infective endocarditis because that bacteria colonized the vegetation and infiltrated the damaged endocardium. So now with that in mind, as your pathophysiology, let's talk about clinical findings. So the way that the patients are going to present right off the bat is that they're going to have vague, generalized, constitutional symptoms. So this is not going to give you, it's not going to seal the diagnosis of endocarditis because you're going to have fever, chills, tachycardia, malaise, weakness, night sweats, so a lot of vague stuff. You couldn't tell this from influenza if you were just reading it right off the bat. Where you're going to seal the diagnosis is going to be all the associated findings and all of the extracardiac symptoms and syndromes that they'll give you. The one that really would suggest that you're probably dealing with infective endocarditis is that they're either going to give you a new murmur or an exacerbation of a pre-existing murmur. This could typically be tricuspid regurgitation, aortic regurgitation, or mitral regurgitation. Understand that from an epidemiological standpoint, the most common valve that gets effective is your mitral valve, followed by your aortic valve, followed by your tricuspid valve, followed by your pulmonary valve. But I want to note for completeness sake that if you're dealing with someone who is an intravenous drug abuser, it's more likely that their tricuspid valve will be involved because that's the first valve that the particulate matter and the foreign substances will flow over. Now let's continue here. So the extracardiac symptoms, these are what you want to look for in your exam. These are caused by septic microemboli, plus or minus immune complex formation. So the first big one is subungual splinter hemorrhages. And you can see a nice image of that here. Basically peripheral septic microemboli get thrown off. They migrate from the infected heart valve and they end up under the nail. Subungual just means under the nail. So these are literally septic microemboli that travel all the way under the nail and then create that little pigmented color under the nail. Janeway lesions shown here on the right side of the slide. These are painless, very important, painless erythematous maculopapular lesions on the palms and soles. These are due to micro abscesses from the septic microemboli from the valve vegetation. So before I go any further, you can already see that these extracardiac symptoms are due to the microemboli leaving the heart and going to distant organs, distant organ systems. That's really the common theme here. So subungual splinter hemorrhages right under the nail, little splinter looking things, and Janeway lesions. Very important to know Janeway lesions are painless. And I have a nice demonic for that. I'll come back to that in just a moment. Osler nodes. So shown here, painful subcutaneous nodules on the palm fingers, toes. This is due to immune complex deposition. So again, the body is recognizing that there's this foreign vegetation, there's this inflammatory cascade happening. The body's like, I don't like that. So it makes immune complexes, but those immune complexes inadvertently get deposited into the palms, into the fingers, into the toes, and that creates these painful nodules. So those are Osler nodes. Lastly, very important, Roth spots. So Roth spots are round retinal hemorrhages with white centers or pale centers and some surrounding edema. This is again due to microthrombi, but specifically, obviously at the site of the retinal capillary damage. So I've pointed them out with the green arrows here. Hopefully you can appreciate that they have white centers. But again, in keeping with our theme here, this pathophysiology is due to the microthrombi that gets thrown out of the heart and end up at the retinal capillary damage or end up at the retina. So if you see the image of what is obviously a fundoscopic exam on USMLE or Comlex, you could pretty safely conclude that you're dealing with Roth spots. Now, let me pause for a moment. If we go back to this slide, I told you that Janeway lesions are painless, Osler nodes are painful. And sometimes the images won't really seal the diagnosis and tell you whether you're dealing with a Janeway lesion or an Osler node. And really all you have to go off of is whether or not they are painful or painless. And so my mnemonic here, Janeway lesions are painless, Osler nodes, ouch, which is to say, Osler nodes hurt. And Janeway lesions are painless, the L-E-S for lesions and painless. So this has always been the really stupid way that I've remembered this. But if you're taking your exam and you're like, I don't know, it's like something on the hand, you can't really tell what it is, but does it hurt? Yeah, it hurts, Osler node. No, it doesn't hurt, Janeway lesion, because lesions are painless. Really, really easy. That'll get you some free points. So let's talk about our clinical findings a little bit more here. There are lots of other symptoms that you want to be on the lookout for. Those things are going to be extra cardiac, again, right outside of the heart. So you could deal with a lot of spleen pathology. So you might get splenic abscesses, splenic artery occlusions. Again, you're throwing off these emboli from the heart. And when they get to the splenic vasculature, they can occlude the vasculature, right? They can cause that splenic artery occlusion. They can literally form a splenic abscess. So on your exam, be on the lookout for left upper quadrant pain or splenomegaly. Likewise, it can go to the vasculature of the kidney. It can cause an acute kidney injury. So look for anuria, hematuria, changes in BUN, creatinine, GFR. You can get neurological symptoms. You can get embolic stroke, seizure, meningitis, encephalitis, central nervous system abscess. There's a classic exam question where a patient presents with stroke-like symptoms, and it turns out that the cause was septic emboli originating from the heart due to endocarditis. So just because you get a stroke-like presentation, that does not exclude the underlying cause, maybe infective endocarditis. And then lastly, obviously, anytime we deal with some intracardiac pathology, that will oftentimes cause pulmonary symptoms because of how inherently connected the heart and the lungs are. So look out for pulmonary abscesses, edema, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusions, or signs and symptoms of a pulmonary embolism. Something else that I want to point out, because it's a pretty classic test question, especially for step two, level two, and beyond, there's this phenomenon called reactive thrombocytosis. Sometimes that's called secondary thrombocytosis. And basically what this is, is markedly elevated platelet levels in response to some underlying inflammation. So in the case of infective endocarditis, there's a classic test question where a patient has endocarditis and one of the key lab abnormalities that they give you is this like ridiculously high platelet level. And when you're first looking at this, you think that you're dealing with some type of hematological issue, but it turns out that it's endocarditis. What happens here is that in response to the underlying inflammation, there's increased levels of circulating IL-6 or interleukin-6, and that enhances thrombopoietin. Anytime you enhance thrombopoietin secretion, you get increased megakaryocyte production, which increases your platelet levels pretty significantly. So bottom line here, I just want you to store it in the back of your brain. If you're taking your exam and you get a crazy high platelet level, sometimes that is infective endocarditis because they like you to connect some really severe underlying inflammation with reactive or secondary thrombocytosis. We're going to conclude with the principles of treatment. Honestly, for step one and level one, this is really not that important. However, for step two, level two, this is extremely important. So depending on where you are, that'll dictate how much attention you should pay to this slide. So in general, blood cultures, you always need to get those before you give antibiotics. Typically, antibiotic treatment will begin with empiric treatment. That's usually going to be vancomycin plus gentamicin, although obviously there are some other regimens that are utilized. In this gray box here, this is what's really important for step two, level two, and beyond. So your confirmatory test is a transesophageal echo. And then what's really, what shows up, unfortunately, all the time on step two, level two, and beyond is whether or not a patient who's going to go in for a dental procedure, whether or not that patient needs endocarditis prophylaxis. So let's talk about that just for a second, because this question shows up a lot on shelves and a lot on step two, level two, and beyond. So any patient, so what the question is, under what condition will a patient need endocarditis prophylaxis before getting some type of dental procedure? And the answer is that if any of the following conditions are met, so patient has a history of infective endocarditis, that one should make sense. Obviously, if they've had endocarditis in the past, you want to prophylax them before dental procedures. If they have a history of a heart transplant plus current, meaning now, valve regurgitation. So just having a heart transplant does not mean you need prophylaxis. It's if and only if it's heart transplant and they have some type, any type of valve regurgitation. The next condition is that any history of a congenital cyanotic heart disease that is not fully repaired, that is going to get prophylaxis. And then lastly, any, and it doesn't matter what kind, any cardiac prosthetic material, they get prophylaxis. So I put any there because what the test writer is going to do is they're going to try to confuse you and overwhelm you. They're going to talk about these prosthetic rings and these prosthetic clods and all these crazy things, right? Don't get overwhelmed by that. Any prosthetic, that patient, if it's in the heart, gets prophylaxis. So you're sitting there now and you're like, okay, that kind of makes sense when you talk through it, but how do I remember that? Because that's a lot of stuff and I'm not going to be a cardiologist and I'm not going to be a dentist. So why, how am I going to memorize that? Well, who do you prophylax for? You proph, P-R-O-P-H, for prosthetics, regurgitation. And then again, that's any regurgitation after a transplant, an original cyanotic heart defect that's not been repaired, and anybody with a prior history, PH of infective endocarditis. Let's keep it simple. You proph for proph, P for prosthetics, R for regurgitation after transplant, O for an original cyanotic heart defect that's not repaired. PH for a prior history of endocarditis. Let's keep it simple. That's infective endocarditis.

=== FILE: Myocarditis [BWCJX7i3RVA].txt ===

 or cardium. Myocarditis, myo meaning muscle, is inflammation of the myocardium or the heart muscle. As you can see, these two areas are very closely related to one another, and for this reason, the presentation has a lot of overlap. Just so you know, for step three, level three, and when you get on your clinical rotations, we generally classify myocarditis into acute or fulminant or chronic active or chronic persistent. You don't need to know this for step one or level one. I'm just pointing it out for completeness sake. The diagnosis of myocarditis is often challenging because the clinical presentation is very variable, very heterogeneous, and it has a lot of overlap with other cardiovascular conditions. For the purposes of step one and level one, where the test writer is very likely going to go, is with the etiologies. And just like we saw with pericarditis, myocarditis can be separated into infectious versus non-infectious etiologies. I've bulleted the ones that I think are most high yield that are likely to show up on your exam. For infectious etiologies, we have Coxsackievirus B, Parvo B19, HHV6, HIV HCV, Adenovirus, Group A beta-hemolytic strep, diphtheria, Aurelia burgdorferi, mycoplasma pneumoniae, TB, Toxoplasma gondii, trypanosoma cruzi, and trichinella. Of this list, if you only have the brain space for a few, I would memorize the ones that you see bolded in red. Group A beta-hemolytic strep, so recall that that is associated with rheumatic fever, so the patients will get myocarditis. In addition to that, they'll present with fever, an acute migratory polyarthritis, chororrhea, which is those dancing-like movements of the extremities. And even many years after the patients experience these symptoms, they ultimately develop rheumatic valvular disease, and that is all collectively known as rheumatic fever. So bottom line here, myocarditis highly associated with Group A beta-hemolytic strep due to rheumatic fever, due to one of the symptoms of rheumatic fever being myocarditis. Now in the case of Borrelia burgdorferi, you need to understand that this pathogen and Lyme disease in general presents with a host of various different symptoms across various different organ systems. And as it relates to the heart, this typically presents with a myopericarditis, which is to say there's myocarditis and there's pericarditis. So there's inflammation of the heart muscle and there's inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart muscle. And because of that, the presentation is going to be variable and heterogeneous. So you'll see some symptoms of myocarditis, some symptoms of pericarditis, and this is due to Borrelia burgdorferi. So very, very important to know. Of note as well, this typically presents with a third degree or complete AV block in addition to the myopericarditis. And then lastly, in the case of trypanosoma cruzi, this also presents with a myopericarditis. In addition, you want to be on the lookout for signs and symptoms of heart failure because this can progress into dilated cardiomyopathy, signs and symptoms of venothromboembolism, and you'll also potentially see some arrhythmias. So on your exam, bottom line here, if you're like, what do I need to know? What causes myocarditis that's infectious? You've obviously got a big list here, but if you can only muster the brain space for a few, group A beta hemolytic strep, Borrelia burgdorferi, and trypanosoma cruzi causing Chagas disease, those are, in my opinion, the big three. Now let's switch gears and look at the non-infectious side. So on the non-infectious side, we have dermatomyositis, polymyositis, lupus, and sarcoidosis. So right off the bat, we're seeing a lot of connective tissue disease or related disease, just like we saw in pericarditis. The big one that I think you should know for the non-infectious etiologies is Kawasaki disease. Now in Kawasaki disease, you have the inflammatory system being activated, and ultimately what happens is oligoclonal IgA plasma cells lead to this cascade that causes coronary arteritis and basically triggers this disease process that turns into a myocarditis. So yes, I want to be clear, there is a arteritis, right? Inflammation of some type of artery, but there also is a myocarditis, and that's what we're talking about in this video. So on Kawasaki disease, know that you can get a myocarditis. That's very, very important. Some medications can cause it. The big one to know is doxorubicin. Other ones include clozapine, anthracycline, and sulfonamides. Vaccines can do it. Radiation can do it. Toxins, this one is kind of peculiar. Black widow venom can cause myocarditis. So I don't think it's likely that you'll see black widow venom on your exam, but if you do, they're probably going to go after myocarditis. And then lastly, carbon monoxide, also technically a toxin, can cause myocarditis as well. So if you're looking at this slide and you're like, man, that's a pretty big list. I don't really want to memorize all of that. Then just know the ones that I bolded. Now clinical features, again, I really want to underscore that the presentation is variable, heterogeneous, and oftentimes patients can even be asymptomatic or present with something that doesn't look like it has anything to do with the heart. That is to say, a lot of patients will present with generalized flu-like symptoms, and it might look like they have an upper respiratory infection or some type of gastrointestinal infection, but in fact, they have myocarditis. So the presentation is going to look very similar, as I said, to pericarditis or dilated cardiomyopathy. And in very severe disease, this will present or progress to acute heart failure. And if that's the case, you're obviously going to see signs and symptoms of acute heart failure, like your S3 gallop, dyspnea, et cetera. But on your exam, they're going to give you bread and butter myocarditis. They're going to give you a patient with sinus tachycardia who has a low-grade fever and vague, generalized kind of flu-like symptoms. That is the classical presentation of myocarditis. Sinus tachycardia is the most common arrhythmia that you'll see here, but be on the lookout for PACs or PVCs and repolarization abnormalities, usually in all leads. Not always, but usually. So bottom line, sinus tachycardia, fever, vague, generalized kind of flu-like symptoms, that's going to be how they present myocarditis to you. Now, where the test writer is going to go if you're taking step one or level one, because it can't be controversial in your exam. There has to be a clear-cut, obvious answer. And if they're making it super vague and super generalized, you're not able to get that question correct. So what they're going to do is give you the labs. And the labs are going to seal the diagnosis when used in combination with the presentation and some buzzword suggesting one of the etiologies from the slide that we looked at where it's infectious versus non-infectious. So on your labs, you're going to see an elevated troponin, an elevated CK, an elevated C-reactive protein, an elevated BNP, and usually elevated eosinophils. This should somewhat make sense. So in myocarditis, there is inflammation and subsequent breakdown of the heart muscle. So you will see elevated troponin. You will see elevated CK because the heart muscle is literally breaking. You will see an elevated C-reactive protein because you have inflammation. You will see an elevated BNP because there is this inflammatory process that's damaging the heart muscle, right? That leads to increased ventricular dysfunction, increased wall stress, and therefore the heart itself will release the BNP to try essentially to react to the hemodynamic stress placed upon it. And then eosinophils just memorize myocarditis equals eosinophils. That'll usually help you on your exam if it's a really vague presentation that you're not sure what the differential is as it relates to some heart pathology. But if I was a betting man, I would say that the test writer will give you some or all of these labs plus a buzzword that connects these labs to one of the etiologies. Now this slide to make the diagnosis is more for step two, level two, and beyond. Generally the diagnosis, the initial test that you get is a transthoracic echo. You might see a quote given in the vignette that says there is reduced ejection fraction or a wall motion abnormality. This in combination with the labs and in combination with a buzzword connecting you to an etiology suggests myocarditis. But to be clear, if step two, level two, or step three, level three asks you for the confirmatory test, not the initial test, but the confirmatory test, that would be either a cardiac MRI or an endomyocardial biopsy. So you can literally biopsy the myocardium to see what is causing the myocarditis. This is obviously very invasive and oftentimes on your exam is not going to be the correct answer because they'll just want the initial test of choice or they'll simply ask you for the diagnosis. But if you do one of the confirmatory tests, in particular the biopsy, look for myocyte necrosis. Lastly, we will conclude by talking about treatment and with myocarditis, it's pretty simple. Supportive treatment and treat the underlying cause, which is to say if the myocarditis is caused by a pathogen, treat the pathogen, right? If the myocarditis is due to a drug, remove the offending agent. If the myocarditis is causing signs and symptoms of acute heart failure, then you would go through the treatment algorithm for heart failure. So there's not like a specific drug for myocarditis. That makes treatment easy. And on your exam, it usually means that they're not going to ask you for the next step in treatment. They're either going to ask you for diagnostics or they'll work backwards and give you something that is clearly myocarditis and ask you what is the etiology and you'll have to pick from our list of etiologies. So that's myocarditis. Again, I would recommend that you watch pericarditis first and then watch myocarditis so that you have an understanding of where in the heart we're talking about and how these things present and what the etiologies are.

=== FILE: PPD (Tuberculosis) Test Results & Interpretation [D-HY70YUeDg].txt ===

 e So what that means is that there is a protein called a tuberculin protein that actually gets extracted from the pathogen mycobacterium tuberculosis. So they literally pull out this protein and then use it as a purified protein derivative. And that's why you see PPD. PPD just stands for purified protein derivative. So there are a couple steps in administering and interpreting this test. Again, if you're in medical school, PA school, NP school, and you just want to know about interpretation, you can skip ahead to step three. But step one is that you inject the purified protein derivative on the forearm approximately two to four inches below the elbow joint. You would use a 27 gauge needle. The bevel should be facing up. And your angle of injection is approximately five to 15 degrees. A pale wheel should be visible when the test is completed. And roughly that wheel should measure six to 10 millimeters. That's step one. Step two is easy. You wait 48 to 72 hours. So patient goes home and is instructed to come back for the interpretation step two to three days later. Now very, very important here. If the test is not read by that 72 hour mark, the results are unreliable and the test needs to be repeated. Step three, here's our interpretation. So if you've been watching this video, you're in medical school, this is all you care about. So when the test is performed, there's going to be two areas that show up on the skin. There's going to be induration, which is that central raised area. And then there is going to be a peripheral bordering area of erythema. What is very important for your exam, if you're taking USMLE or COMLEX, is that you must know that you measure the area of induration, not the area of erythema. Obviously, you look at this image here, and perhaps you've seen this in real life. If you measure the area of erythema, you're going to have an artificially inflated measurement. It's going to, in reality, be much smaller than that. So only measure the area of induration. And when it comes to actually measuring, you hold up a ruler and place the zero of that ruler on the left border of induration, and then measure from zero to the right border. This is how you measure. Now, depending on what that measurement is, you get certain results. Now, I would note for completeness sake here that an interesting little tidbit about the PPD test is that as the diameter cutoff increases, sensitivity declines and specificity increases. So in other words, the test has the highest sensitivity for a positivity cutoff of five millimeters when you're measuring that area of induration. Just a little aside there. But for purposes of USMLE and COMLEX, literally all you have to know is one, you're measuring induration, and two, you need to know this table. So depending on how big that area of induration is, there are three, really two, if you look at the chart, there are three cutoffs that you need to memorize. So an area of induration of greater than or equal to five millimeters would be a positive PPD test in certain patient populations. Likewise, the same would be true with that area of induration is greater than or equal to 10 millimeters. And then for everybody else with no risk factors for tuberculosis, induration of 15 or more would be considered a positive test. So the last one is obviously super easy to memorize. And therefore, for the purposes of USMLE and COMLEX, you just need to memorize what patient groups would be a positive at five and what patient groups would be a positive at 10. If you can do that, you'll get every single question correct. So let's take a look here. So the patient populations in what groups would a area of induration of five millimeters or more be considered positive? So that would be individuals who are infected with HIV, individuals who have had close contact with another patient with an active TB infection, evidence of TB on chest radiography. So you could see this written as either fibrotic or nodular, or they're going to put those words together sometimes saying fibronodular changes. If you see any of those terms, then five or more would be a positive. And then both organ transplant recipients and immunosuppressed patients. So the first group, obviously, because the measurement of the area of induration is the smallest, but yet still positive, these are going to be the most highly susceptible patient populations. And if you look at this, it kind of makes sense, right? HIV, organ transplant, and immunosuppressed patients. In my brain, that's one group. Those are highly susceptible immunosuppressed patients. And then evidence of TB, of prior TB on chest radiography or recent close contacts with an active TB infection, those are also high risk, highly susceptible due to the fact that you either have these prior signs on the x-ray, or you've had a recent contact with an active infection. So these are your highest risk, highest acuity group, and that's why it's five or more for the measurement. Now jumping down to 10, an area of induration of 10 millimeters or more is going to be in recent immigrants from high risk countries. And really what this means is countries where TB is endemic. Now, you're not going to get tested on numbers or statistics on USMLE or COMLEX, but in reality, the incidence of infection would be greater than 25 in 100,000 if you're curious about the number. IV drug abuse or injection drug users fall into this group. High risk employees or residents. So some type of occupational exposure. So if you, for example, work in healthcare, you've got a patient who works in healthcare, you have a patient who works in prisons, who works in homeless shelters, healthcare settings. And I put it below, but really we could have grouped it in here as well. Patients who work in mycobacteriology labs. So TB labs. Again, that's an occupational exposure. It could have fallen under that high risk employee sentence that I wrote out, but I just dropped it one down. But anybody who works in, you know, healthcare, prisons, homeless shelters, mycobacterium labs. So these are high risk settings. These individuals will be positive at 10 as opposed to 15. High risk chronic diseases. This is a big one. So people with diabetes, end stage renal disease, leukemia, etc. So these, these are chronic medical conditions that increase the risk of reactivation of TB. And therefore they have a cutoff that is slightly below the general population. Other things to look for in this category, just for completeness sake, ENT cancer. So cancers of the head, neck, also cancers of the lungs. Patients with malignancy. Patients with a history of silicosis. Patients who are on dialysis. If you're kind of just doing it broadly, you'll probably get this right. But anybody with a chronic medical condition that increases the risk of reactivation of tuberculosis is positive at 10 millimeters. And then the last one that I have written out here, children less than four years of age or children who are exposed to adults who fall into the high risk categories. So for the latter part of that sentence, I want to be clear that that could be, you know, newborns, infants, toddlers, children, adolescents, the age doesn't matter in the second part. So any kid, right? Any not adult who is exposed to an adult who falls into a high risk category or any children who is just less than four years old. Either of those categories would be positive at 10 millimeters. Now, the one that I didn't include here that I intended to and forgot to write it out, just for completeness sake, I'm going to verbalize it. Another patient population that would be positive at 10 or more milliliter, 10 or more millimeters, excuse me, is individuals who have a weight that's less than 90% of the ideal body weight. So people essentially who have a low body weight, those individuals are also positive at 10 or more millimeters. And then, like I said, the last category here, 15 or more millimeters, this is the easiest one. This is everybody else, i.e. this is people with no known risk factors for tuberculosis, healthy individuals, obviously older than four years of age since four or less would fall into a positive at 10. So healthy individuals, four or more years of age with no risk factors and a low likelihood of TB infection. So I know that sounds like a lot at first, but again, I want to go back to where I started on this chart. If you can memorize that your highest, highest, highest risk patient populations are positive at five plus, those are immunosuppressed, organ transplant, HIV positive, somebody with a contact to an active case of TB or has evidence of TB or prior TB on chest x-ray, right? All of those are way more susceptible, way more severe, way more acute than any of the other categories here. That's at five. And if you need a stupid way to memorize the high risk category where you have a positive at induration measuring five or more millimeters, I took words out of that category. And all of these words either have five total letters or five total letters plus symbols. So for example, the word chest has five letters that will remind you that in individuals who have signs on chest x-ray, right? Those fibronodular changes, that's positive at five because there's five letters in chest. The word organ has five letters. So patients who are organ transplant recipients are positive at five because organ has five letters. Immune o-suppressed patients, I-M-M-U-N, that is five letters. Close has five letters. So patients who had close contacts with other patients who have active TB. Close has five letters. So those patients are positive at five. And then lastly, HIV plus plus is five total letters plus symbols. I had to stretch this one a little bit. I apologize. But this is the stupid way to remember the most susceptible, highest acuity where you've got a positive at five millimeters or more. 10 is that middle category. You know, there's some risk factors there. For example, they work in a TV lab or they use IV drugs. Maybe they immigrated from a country or I should say emigrated from a country that where TB is endemic, right? There's risk there. Don't misunderstand me. But that risk is not as acute as the individuals who have the immunosuppressed status or the recent close contact. And then 15 or more is the easiest because that's everybody else. So if you can memorize this, you're in great shape. This does get tested. They'll give you the measurement or they'll give you the patient population and then ask which measurement would be positive. But these should be free test points on test day. So hopefully this makes sense. Good luck.

=== FILE: Placenta Pathology (Abruptio Placentae, Placenta Accreta⧸Increta⧸Percreta, Placenta⧸Vasa Previa) [gPRKCjjBqiU].txt ===

 In this video, i.g. In this video, i will help you learn everything you need to know about what you see on this slide. We'll be talking about abruptio placenta, the placenta, the placenta, accreta, spectrum, and to be clear, i didn't put that term on this slide, but PAS, or placenta, accreta, spectrum, refers to all of placenta, accreta, placenta, and placenta, percreta. We'll also talk about placenta, previa, and vasocenta, and vasoprevia. So when you're looking at this slide, you can probably appreciate that these words sound similar. There's a lot of overlapping symptoms between these things, and so when you go through this for the first time, it can be a bit tricky, but in this video, i'll help you differentiate between these terms and pick up free points on test day by utilizing some very, very good mnemonics. So let's start with abruptio placenta. This refers to placental detachment from the uterine wall, the fore delivery. On your exam, you'll recognize abruptio placenta because they're going to give you somebody who has third trimester, abrupt onset, painful bleeding. The key here is that it's painful, and we'll come back to that in just a moment. Risk factors for abruptio placenta include a deceleration, motor vehicle injury, and cocaine use. Those are the two big ones that you'll probably see on your exam if the test writer goes after risk factors. But you can also see this in patients who smoke, have hypertension, preeclampsia, or a maternal age greater than or equal to 35. Now, focus here on the deceleration, motor vehicle injury, and cocaine, because if the test writer wants you to pick abruptio placenta, they'll give you third trimester painful bleeding, but they might give you things like the motor vehicle injury or cocaine and expect you to put these things together, because third trimester bleeding can be a bit vague. But add in the cocaine abuse, but add in the cocaine abuse or put that in the context of somebody who had a deceleration injury, and that points you in the direction of abruptio placenta. Now, as far as memorizing just abruptio placenta, I want you to remember AP. Abruptio placenta is AP. AP can mean it's abrupt and painful. It can mean that the patient is accident prone, which is a way to remember the deceleration injury. And let me go for an aside and pause for just a second. The deceleration injury creates such a force when that deceleration injury occurs that that is what causes the detachment. And then AP for abuse potential. Abuse potential should remind you that this is highly associated with cocaine use. So that's abruptio placenta AP. Now let's talk about placenta accreta spectrum. Again, that term, placenta accreta spectrum, encompasses all three of placenta accreta, placenta increta, and placenta percreta. Now, placenta accreta spectrum refers to abnormal placental attachment to the myometrium. This is due to a defective decidual layer, and I would memorize that because that is the pathophysiology that gets pretty buzzy on USMLE and COMLEX. The only difference between accreta, increta, and percreta is the extent to which this invades or doesn't the myometrium. And so if we look at the terminology here, accreta is attachment to the surface of the myometrium, but there's no penetration. In crita is attachment into the myometrium. And percreta, per means perforate. So this is when you have penetration through the myometrium. So really, placenta accreta spectrum, that tells you you're dealing with some type of abnormal attachment to the myometrium. The question is how far and how deep into the myometrium, if at all, are we? Accreta on surface, in crita, into myometrium, percreta, perforating myometrium. So if you can get those terms straightened out in your brain, you'll probably get all your points on test day for placenta accreta spectrum. Really, really briefly, risk factors for this, prior C-sections and placenta previa. And the symptoms here, all of these things, right, accreta, increta, and percreta, these can all cause postpartum bleeding, which of course can lead to Sheehan syndrome. Sheehan syndrome is very high yield for USMLE step one and COMLEX level one. That refers to postpartum pituitary necrosis, and that is specific to the anterior pituitary gland. So postpartum pituitary necrosis leading to anterior pituitary gland deficiencies and dysfunction, all because of postpartum bleeding or some extent of shock and hyper, hypovolemia. So Sheehan syndrome, very, very, very high yield. And that's associated with all of the placenta accreta spectrum, which again, for the fifth time, is to say accreta, increta, and percreta. Now let's switch gears and talk about placenta previa. Placenta previa, it refers to the placental covering of the internal cervical os. And the symptoms here is that it's painless third trimester bleeding. And the painless part is very, very important. As you might recall, from abruptio placenta, we said that that was painful third trimester bleeding. So abruptio placenta is painful. Placenta previa, painless. Both are third trimester. Now in the case of placenta previa, the bleeding tends to spontaneously stop within one to two hours. This isn't always the case in real life, but on your exam, if they want to go by the textbook definition and the textbook description, they'll give you painless third trimester bleeding that might spontaneously stop within a few hours. And this is really, really key because we'll differentiate that in just a second against abruptio placenta. Risk factors for placenta previa include prior uterine procedures. And those are things like C-sections or myomectomies, right? Basically anything that disrupts the uterine lining, that is going to be a major risk factor for placenta previa. Other risk factors include multiple gestations and previous episodes or diagnoses of placenta previa. Now I told you the key here is differentiating placenta previa from abruptio placenta because both of these presentations on your exam will be some type of third trimester bleeding. So again, in previa, think about P's. It's painless and it pauses, which is to say that it spontaneously stops within a few hours. Abruptio, think about A. Abruptio is aching, which is to say that it's painful. And it's active, which is to say that it doesn't stop. So previa is painless and pauses. Abruptio is aching and active. This will help you differentiate placenta previa from abruptio placenta. Both of those conditions will give you third trimester bleeding. It's going to be your job on your exam to figure out which one of these things you're dealing with. Let's conclude by talking about vasoprevia. Now, don't get this confused with placenta previa. Placenta previa, we're obviously talking about the placenta. Vasa, as the name implies, we're talking about fetal vessels. So in vasoprevia, it is the vessels that cover the internal cervical os. And the symptoms here, surprise, surprise, painless third trimester bleeding. So the symptoms, the presentation of vasoprevia is going to be very, very similar to placenta previa. So you're probably sitting there and you're like, dirty, dude, both of these previa things are, you're telling me they're painless. You're telling me they're third trimester bleeding. How the heck am I supposed to memorize this? Where the test writer will probably go with vasoprevia may be one of the pathophysiologies that lead to this. So what are the causes? There are two things that you need to know. One is called velomentous insertion. And one is called succenturiate or a bilobate placenta. Now, these sound complicated, but they're actually not. So let's explain what they are. In the case of velomentous insertion, and the more correct way to define this would be a velomentous cord insertion, what you're dealing with here is a part of the fetal cord that, of course, contains the fetal vessels is exposed and it's not protected. And that exposure occurs before connecting to the placenta. And as that exposure kind of wraps around the baby, it covers the internal cervical os. Of these two, right, of velomentous insertion and succenturiate bilobate placenta, the more important one to understand is velomentous insertion. And for that reason, I have a very nice image on the next slide that shows you exactly what this is. But just for completeness sake, let's talk about the slightly lower yield one, the succenturiate or the bilobate placenta. So this refers to when the placenta forms two or more lobes. And so what happens here is that the fetal vessels obviously need to supply blood to both of the lobes. And sometimes as those vessels split off and provide a supply to both of those lobes, they inadvertently cover the internal cervical os. And so when that happens, you have vasa previa, right, vessels preventing. I know that's not what the word actually means, but that's how it makes sense in my head. You have vessels preventing the internal cervical os or covering it. And the reason that it's covering it or that it's previa-ing it, for lack of a more scientific term, is that the vessels are supplying multiple lobes of a bilobate placenta. So bottom line here, if a placenta has multiple lobes, sometimes the vessels split off to supply blood to both lobes, and they accidentally cover the os. Vilamentous insertion is much higher yield. That's when a portion of the fetal cord and fetal vessels are exposed and they wrap around before connecting to the placenta and accidentally cover the os. So let me just show you an image of that just so you really, really understand. So forget about the middle picture here. Look at all the way on the left and all the way on the right. So all the way on the left, we have a normal umbilical cord insertion where the umbilical cord goes from baby and it inserts into the placenta. That light blue color is like a sort of sheathing or protection that wraps around the umbilical cord. When you look all the way on the right, you have velamentous cord insertion, and that is one of the major high yield causes of vasoprevia. So you can see that the cord goes from the baby and then you follow that light blue line. I'm looking all the way on the right image here. And then at some point you have exposed unprotected elements or fetal vessels. And those exposed vessels wrap around baby in the process covering the internal os as they move en route to the placenta. And this is why a velamentous cord can cause vasoprevia because those exposed unprotected blood vessels in the fetal cord are blocking the os. And that is how velamentous cord insertion causes vasoprevia. So that's really all I have for you. I know it's a lot of terms that sound interchangeable, that sound similar, that present with third trimester bleeding. If you know the ones that are painful and you know the ones that are painless, and you know what gets associated with the ones that are painless, and you understand how velamentous cord insertion can cause vasoprevia, you are in excellent shape for this topic. I hope that this was helpful. I know it was fast, but I like to keep things simple and concise. Good luck. Thank you.

=== FILE: Retinal Artery Occlusion vs. Retinal Vein Occlusion [EyolHpfyAnY].txt ===

 Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate give you that. So in your exam, the way that you're going to get this right is if you can identify buzzwords and identify the picture when they show you the back of somebody's eye. So the way that I think you can simplify this is let's break it down and get back to basics. If you understand pathophysiology, this makes perfect sense. One of these has artery in the name. One of these has vein in the name. Artery brings the blood to something and the vein takes it away. So if we block the artery, blood cannot get to the retina. If we block the vein, blood can't get out of the retina. And if we keep it that stupid and that simple, this all makes perfect sense. So in other words, a retinal artery occlusion where your artery is blocked, therefore blood can't get to something, that's a supply problem. A retinal vein occlusion, meaning that the blood cannot drain out of the eye, that's a drainage problem. So let's pause for a second. And I've got a really silly picture here at the bottom of the slide. If blood can't get in, what physical findings would you expect to see? And if blood can't get out, what physical findings would you expect to see? So taking that one step further, in the artery occlusion, you see a pale fundus with a cherry red spot. In the vein occlusion, you see hemorrhage and edema. Now this should make sense to you. When we look at hemorrhage and edema, if blood is pooling into the eye and can't get out through the retinal vein, there will be hemorrhage and there will be edema, specifically of the optic disc. And if we think about the pale fundus with a cherry red spot, because this is a supply problem, part of the eye is ischemic. If you can't get blood to part of the eye, it will appear pale. And that should make sense to you. Now as far as the cherry red spot goes, here's what you want to look for. You see the black arrow here pointing to the cherry red spot. And something that is important to understand here is that you see the reason that the cherry red spot is cherry red at the center, but then pale around it is because the fovea will stay red. And the reason that the fovea stays red is that it gets its blood supply from the posterior ciliary arteries. It does not get its blood supply from the central retinal artery. So basically anything that is supplied from the central retinal artery will become pale because it's ischemic. But anything that is supplied from the posterior ciliary arteries will appear well perfused because we don't have the blockage there. Again, in a retinal artery occlusion, the occlusion is in the retinal artery or the central retinal artery. And this is why the fovea will be a nice dark red color, but the surrounding tissue will be pale. Now let's contrast that to what you see in a retinal vein occlusion. So in a retinal vein occlusion, you're looking for optic disc edema. So the optic disc would swell and retinal hemorrhage. And you can see, I hope you can appreciate the very stark contrast between these two pictures. One is showing you hemorrhage and some swelling. The other shows you that cherry red spot with the pale fundus. And again, if you think about this as artery occlusion equals supply problem, it's ischemic, and vein equals drainage problem, it's buildup and swelling and hemorrhage, this really should make sense to you. Now on your exam, they're going to show you one of these pictures like 90% of the time. They want you to be to pick out the cherry red spot. They want you to pick out the hemorrhage. And this is kind of basic. So you really should commit this to memory. But if you're looking at causes here, the retinal artery occlusion typically is due to some type of thromboembolic event. And the retinal vein occlusion is typically due to a compressive effect of nearby central retinal arteries having atherosclerosis. So interestingly, in the retinal vein occlusion, it is truly that a nearby artery becomes atherosclerotic, and then that pushes up against the retinal vein, which prevents the retinal vein from draining properly, hence the hemorrhage, hence the edema. But in the retinal artery occlusion, the problem is inherent to whatever thromboembolic event takes place that occludes the actual central retinal artery itself. And that's really important to understand. So I've gone through this video, and so far I would say that I've covered much of what you probably need to know for the purposes of your exam. Again, you want to be able to identify these pictures and know that the buzzwords pale fundus, cherry red spot equals artery occlusion, retinal hemorrhage, and optic disc edema equals vein occlusion. But if you need a way to memorize this and pair these together, I always think about artery is red and vein is blue. That's just how it is in my head, probably from years of studying this way. So the way that I memorize this is when I think about a pale fundus with a cherry red spot, pale to me, pale is like a bucket. So I think about a bucket or a pale filled with cherries. And then I associate pale fundus, cherry red spot with red, you know, red cherries, that's the central artery and everything else by process of elimination would be a retinal vein. So this was quick, really to the point, but I want you to understand if you're blocking the artery, blood can't get in, that's a supply problem. So you're looking for ischemic symptoms. If the vein is occluded, blood can't get out. That's a drainage problem. You're looking for hemorrhage and edema type symptoms. If you can keep that straight, then when you look at these images, you can kind of guess based on which blood vessel looks more engorged versus which one looks more like a cherry. So there you go. Good luck.

=== FILE: Yersinia Pestis [yG1gWB5gOXY].txt ===

 Let me teach you everything that you need to know about Yersinia pestis. Yersinia pestis is a gram-negative bacillus, it is a zoonotic, non-spore-forming, facultative anerobe. The name Yersinia pestis, it's actually named for the bacteriologist Alexander Yersin, and pestis meaning plague, because as you'll see in just a moment, this causes the Black Death, also known as plague. So pestis for plague, and Yersinia for Alexander Yersin. Dirty, just tell us what we need to know. Alright, sorry, sorry, let's get back to this. So, this demonstrates something called bipolar staining. Sometimes this will be described as having a safety pin appearance. So, bipolar staining, and I'll show you this on just the other slide here, means that on the two opposite ends, you see a cluster of staining at the ends with little teeny outbranching lines running between them. And this is said to look like a safety pin, or having a safety pin appearance. And you can see here on this slide, where my arrows are pointing to, that is the bipolar staining. And I put a picture of a safety pin up against this. So you can really appreciate, and I will agree, this does look like a safety pin. So if you see this picture, this is Yersinia. Now, the reservoir and the vector are very high yield for some of these bacteria, and Yersinia is one of them. So rodents and prairie dogs are the reservoir, and fleas are the vector. And the flea is what transmits the infections to humans. Generally, this bacteria resides in rodents, and it's that flea bite that moves it from the rodents over to the humans, and causes plague or black death. Now, plague can be in a few different forms. The clinical forms are either bubonic plague, pulmonic plague, or septicemic plague. And I'll get into each of those individually in a few slides. The most important one for you to understand for USMLE and COMLEX is bubonic plague. Again, here is your safety pin appearance. Pretty unique image, so I would commit this to memory. Now, for virulence and pathophysiology, just a couple things to know here. One, this has a lipopolysaccharide endotoxin. It has a type 3 secretion system. And remember that with a secretion system, it's kind of like the bacterial product gets injected into the host cell directly. And so there's the presence of this thing called Yersinia-associated outer proteins, or YAPS. And the YAPS are what get injected through the type 3 secretion system. Once those get into the host cell, they inhibit phagocytosis and inhibit different metabolic pathways, which makes the bacteria essentially grow out of control and evade immune response from the host. The other thing that's interesting about Yersinia is that it demonstrates calcium variable virulence. So basically, this bacteria adjusts depending on the calcium concentration in the host around it. And so obviously, humans and rodents have varying degrees of intracellular calcium concentrations. And if the Yersinia is in its reservoir in the rodent, it can survive. And when it gets transmitted into a host cell, that calcium concentration is different. But one of the ways that Yersinia can persist is that it can adapt to the variable calcium concentration. So just a little bit of an interesting aside there. But memorize the endotoxin, the type 3 secretion system injecting the YAPS, and calcium variable virulence. Clinical findings are really the big area that test writers like to nitpick on exams. So when it comes to plague, as I said, there are three different types. There's bubonic, pneumonic, and septicemic. And these different plagues tell you which organ system or which part of the body the plague is primarily targeting. So if it's bubonic, it's in the lymph nodes. If it's pneumonic, it's in the lungs. And if it's septicemic, it's in the bloodstream. Now the highest yield of these three is bubonic. So let's cover that one in greater detail. And then I'll go over pneumonic and septicemic in just a moment. So for bubonic, bacteria from the flea bite gets into the dermal lymphatic system. And once it's in the dermal lymphatic system, it starts to replicate. And this is why you see the development of what are known as buboes. Bubos are referred to superative lymphadenitis. So unilateral, swollen, painful lymph nodes that can have the presence of an eschar. They can be pustular. They can be vesicular. But bottom line, a bubo is a painful, swollen lymph node. And because the bacteria, the Yersinia, is replicating in the dermal lymphatics as it replicates, as that bacterial load grows, so too do the lymph nodes. And those lymph nodes become obviously painful, swollen, enlarged. They can become pustular. There can be the presence of an eschar, which is going to kind of look black and discolored. And they can become vesicular. These are called buboes. And they represent the process, the disease process or the clinical syndrome of superative lymphadenitis. This is the key finding in bubonic plague. Now, in addition to these buboes, you can see more generalized symptoms like fevers, chills, nonspecific symptoms like headache, weakness. And if left untreated, this can progress to shock and death. So that is bubonic. Bubonic means buboes. Bubos means painful lymph nodes. Now, let's talk briefly about pneumonic and septicemic. Again, I want to be very clear that bubonic is the highest yield version of this that tends to show up most often on USMLE and Comlex. But if the test writer woke up on the wrong side of the bed and didn't get their coffee in the morning, they'll go after pneumonic or septicemic. So let's cover it just to be complete. Pneumonic is due to the inhalation of droplets. This leads to cough, chest pain, hemoptysis, fever. And this can be plus or minus buboes. So sometimes they'll be present here, but you don't need the presence of buboes to have pneumonic plague. And this leads to rapidly progressive pneumonia. So obviously, pneumonic means it's in the lungs. Because it's in the lungs, the key symptoms to look out for are hemoptysis and rapid progressing pneumonia. Septicemic means it's in the bloodstream. So that's the replication of Yersinia in the bloodstream. Now, when this happens, you tend to get involvement of the GI tract or meningitis. Because since the Yersinia is replicating in the bloodstream, it's going to spread. If it spreads to other organ systems, then you're going to involve the GI tract and get into the brain. So you get meningitis. But the thing about septicemic on your exam is that the test writer will tell you that it has progressed to disseminated intravascular coagulation. And if left untreated, this almost always results in death. So septicemic is pretty fatal. And you want to look for the lab markers for DIC if they're going after septicemic. The bottom line here, bubonic is buboes and lymph nodes. Pneumonic is lungs, hemoptysis, and pneumonia. Septicemic is meningitis, GI symptoms, and DIC. If you can keep those three things in those three different boxes, I think you're in pretty good shape here. For treatment, briefly, you use aminoglycosides and fluoroquinolones. You can also secondarily use tetracyclines. But the big answers are going to be aminoglycosides and fluoroquinolones. So that is Yersinia pestis. Good luck.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.298511Z ===
