So, in today's video, we're going to talk about bioteterrorism agents. Now, apparently test writers have gotten really cute and they think that they're going to ask you questions about bioteterrorism because apparently when you go to medical school, you're signing up to work for the CDC. Well, not quite. But the problem here is that all of the different review books on the market and all of the different board review companies on the internet don't cover this topic. So, after a hundred, if not thousands of requests from the dirty USMLE subscribers, I've decided that it's time to get you free points if they ask you a bioteterrorism question. So, this lecture is going to teach you everything that you need to know about bioteterrorism agents. And I want to say from the start that we're not going to review bioteterrorism agents that are already found in other books. We're going to cover the ones that are not in review sources. So, with that said, let's get started. A bioteterrorism agent is any agent that's intended to produce death or disease in humans. So oftent times this is when a government will take an agent which could be a bacteria, a virus, a toxin, and they'll weaponize it. They'll try to produce it in mass quantity to potentially be used in warfare. This is really terroristic and it's terrible. And because of this, the United States Center for Disease Control, the CDC, has come up with guidelines and treatment algorithms and um basically a whole slew of information to counter any type of bioteterrorism threat that would be had against the country. So let's get started and talk about how these are classified. So there are three categories of bioteterrorism agents. We categorize them into category A, category B, and category C. Basically, the closer you are to the front of the alphabet, the more dangerous you are. So, A is super dangerous, B is, you know, pretty dangerous, and C is not quite as dangerous. But all of these have potential to be weaponized and cause disease and death. And this is how they are categorized. So, we're going to break these down into three categories, go through the categories one at a time. So, obviously, we're going to start with category A. Now, before I get into the new agents that you've never heard of before, let's quickly review the agents in category A that you should already be familiar with. So, the first one is anthrax, basillus anthraasis. And here's just a quick summary of things you should already know. It's a grandpositive rod, a spore forming, exotoxin forming agent. It has that poly capsule that helps with its virulence. It allows for edema and lethal factor entry into the cell to cause hemorrhagic mediainitis or a cutaneous black. Also, you can have GI manifestations. But here are some pictures that you should be familiar with that should quue you into anthrax. Remember that black echar the widened mediainum because of mediainitis and then the appearance of the medusa head under the lowowered microscope. And I've showed you put a little picture of Medusa's head right next to that image. So you can see kind of how that serpentine like appearance is actually a buzzword. Medusa head is anthrax. So that's basillus anthraasis our first category A agent. Again, this is just a rapid review because this is in other review textbooks. Some other agents that you should already know that are in other review textbooks that I'm quickly going to go through rapidly. Um, bachulism, your cineia pestus aka the bubanic plague and then Francisella tuleris. So for bachulism obviously this is an anorobic gram positive rod. It's exotoxin producing. Remember that children get it from spores but adults get it through the exotoxin. It cleaves snare proteins and prevents acetylcholine release which causes a flaccid paralysis and we have an antitoxin to treat it. Your cineia pestus aka the bubanic plague. It causes bubos. Um it is a gram negative oxidase negative agent with no H2S production. It is exotoxin forming and coagulase positive. Booos uh you can sort of see in that picture but any any picture that looks like that you want to think of the bubanic plague. Francisella tulerencis really quickly is an anorobic gram negative cocobacilli. It causes a few different types of tarmia. The most popular or prominent I should say is ulcer glandular which causes conjunctivitis, headache and fngitis. You can get a typhoid typeia which just pretty much causes nausea and vomiting or a pulmonary tarmia which causes a flu-l like illness. So again I'm rapidly going through these because these agents are in things like first aid and other textbooks. These are category A agents that can be weaponized as bioteterrorism agents. Now that you understand them and you already have a familiarity with them, if not, please go review them. Let's talk about the five agents that you've probably never heard of before. And that's really going to be the focus of this category A section. So those are Marberg virus, Machupo virus, variola major aka smallox, Ebola, which you may or may not have heard of, and Lassa virus. So, how do we remember that these are the category A agents? Well, we've got to come up with a pneumonic and my pneumonic is many many viruses exist lethally. So, MMV, many many viruses exist lethally. That's our category A pneumonic. So, because it's exist lethally, category A is the most lethal category, which is how I remember that the pneumonic with the word lethally is category A. So, let's get right into it. We'll start with Marberg virus. So, Marberg virus is a phlo virus. It's named for the German city that it was originally discovered in which is Marberg. It is a linear nonsegmented singlestranded RNA virus and there's a picture of it right there. As far as virulence and transmission, it uses a neanpic cholesterol transporter to mediate entry into the cell and it is spread with contact of bodily fluids. Historically this was spread from uh actually contact with primates and the host is thought to be the Egyptian fruit bat. So Marberg virus has an incubation period of 5 to 10 days and after that incubation period it cause causes a protracted hemorrhagic fever with pancreatitis maculopapular rash and just general symptoms that are consistent with a flu-l like illness. Unfortunately treatment here is just going to be supportive. So if somebody contracts Marberg virus there is a very high rate of death because we don't have anything to treat it with. Um I want to pause for one second and say that these category A agents all have something in common and that is that they all cause hemorrhagic illness. So hemorrhagic fever where you have this systemic illness categorized by shock and bleeding from mucosal sites that is very characteristic of these category A agents. So by starting with Marberg, this is a hemorrhagic illness that can cause generalized systemic symptoms such as shock. But the one specific symptom here I would say is that pancreatitis from Marberg virus. So if you want to think about a way to remember that Marberg was discovered in Germany and the Germans are known for their beer and if you drink too much beer you can get pancreatitis. So that's how I remember Marberg virus. So that's our first category A agent. Not too bad. Hopefully that that wasn't too tough for you. I understand that this is probably new for a lot of people, but the way to learn this is just to constantly revisit and memorize this and use a couple stupid pneumonics like Marberg, Germany, beer, pancreatitis. Let's talk about the next M, Machupo virus. So Machupo virus is a mammarina virus which I had never heard of prior to studying these uh aka it's an arena virus. Uh this is also known as blacktyus or Bolivian hemorrhagic fever. Of course, this has some ties to Bolivia, hence the name Bolivian hemorrhagic fever. And just like Marberg virus, as I told you, this causes a hemorrhagic fever. Now, Machupo virus, its vector is the large vesper mouse, which I've put a picture on the slide to hopefully help you remember this. It's a large vesper mouse, and this is spread from bodily fluid contact. So, if a human gets this from uh gets infected with this, it's spread through bodily fluids. And the original vector is the large vesper mouse in terms of transmitting this disease or this virus. Now machupo virus of course causes hemorrhagic fever because we're talking about our category A agents. Specifically for machupo you get these petiki and massive oral bleeds. So things like mucosal bleeding. If you look at the eyes I mean you can't miss this on an exam. The way that I remember this is Machupo sounds like a drug lord uh in South America. So I always think of a drug lord just like punching somebody in the face and causing their eyes and their mouth to bleed uh when they're trying to shake you down for some drug deal. So Machupo virus I think of Machupo the drug lord causing oral bleeding and conjunctal bleeding hemorrhagic fever that is much machupo virus. So Marberg the Germans like beer you can get pancreatitis. Machupo. You get punched in the face by the drug lord Machupo and you bleed from your oral places like your gums and your uh conjunct ty. Uh again, both of these will cause hemorrhagic fever. So there's really no way to differentiate based on that. Moving on, we're going to talk about small pox. So variola major small pox. Now small pox is not a name that should be too unfamiliar to you, but unfortunately they don't really teach it too much in medical school. So let's kind of dissect this and go through it. So smallox is caused by the variola virus and this is a pox virus. It's a brick-shaped doublest stranded DNA virus and I've put a couple pictures of it on the slide to hopefully uh help you encode that in your memory. So I don't know if I would call that brick shaped but that's the characteristic appearance of small pox. So if you see that the answer is small pox. Now as far as virulence goes this is a thick um this virus has a thick thick viral envelope and that helps it um with its virulence factors. Now specifically it has Golgi membranes with polyeptides and modified hemoglutin. Those are just some buzzwords as far as how this virus can actually incorporate into the host cell. Um the perhaps highest yield thing to know about smallox is its symptoms and the progression of the symptoms. So how this works is there's a n a 7 to 19 day incubation period. Now, the first way that this starts is with soores in the mouth. And these sores progress over the course of those 19 or 20 20 or so days. And I've put a picture of the progression of these sores on the slide. So, you can see how they move in time. So, they start as really small almost vesic vicular looking soores. And they progress they get larger and eventually they will erupt into a fingial rash. So, often times they're in the mouth, they're in the oral cavity and as they progress through time, they they erupt into a fingial rash. So they'll move from this vicicular kind of lesion into a full-blown fingial vicular viculicular excuse me pusular rash in the fairings. Now after the fingial rash it turns into a full body rash. So you got these massive growth of pestules all over the body and you can see that on the picture in the right. And what happens over time is that those postules will lead to scarring and fibrosis and they'll take on this hardened appearance. So initially they they look very pusular right they look like they have a little bit of fluid maybe a um central denting in them but over time they scar and become very very fibrootic. Now the important thing to note is that these soores as they progress have something in them called guiary bodies gorgiary inclusion bodies. If you see that buzzword the answer is smallox. Just like of negri bodies and other types of bodies or inclusion bodies that you hear of in other types of pathogens. Goneria inclusion bodies are specific to smallpox. So again, if I were going to summarize here, I would say that there is a 20-day period over which you have the growth of initially small vicicular lesions in the mouth that go back into the fairings. They form larger postules which then go onto the full body on the external part of the skin. They lead to big postuual formation that eventually scars over time. So that is variola major aka smallox. We've got two more agents in the category A section. The next one is Ebola. So Ebola's obviously made a lot of headlines in the past couple years because of the Ebola crisis in Africa. Now Ebola is an enveloped linear non-segmented negative sense singlestranded RNA virus. That's a mouthful. It is a felo virus with a helical capsule. And there is a picture of Ebola. If you see that picture on your exam, the answer is Ebola. Now, Ebola targets endothelial cells and it is transmitted, we think, through contact with bats, pigs or primates that carry the virus. Now, the symptoms and the treatment, it's really just hemorrhagic fever here that quickly progresses to shock and multiorgan failure. And it's very lethal. It's absolutely lethal, hence the crisis and the quick transmission. Hemorrhagic fever again is our sort of consistent theme here in category A. So Ebola just causes that hemorrhagic fever with shock and multiorgan failure. Definitely need to know it, but it's sort of non-specific here. So not too much to memorize about Ebola, maybe other than its viral makeup. That is all you really need to know about Ebola. The final category A agent is lassa virus. L A SA lassa. So many many viruses exist lethally. The L in lethally is for lassa virus. So lassa virus is an enveloped singlestranded bisegmented ambisonense RNA virus and it specifically is an arena virus. There's a small picture of it. You don't need to know what that picture looks like. It's pretty non-specific but I've included it there just to make this slide a little sexier. Now lassa virus has a really interesting virulence in transmission and I think this is probably worth knowing. So it has glyoproteins and zinc binding proteins. Now the glyoproteins bind to something called alpha droglycin on the host cell and allow the virus to attach to the cell and get the viral contents into the host. The zinc binding protein is what regulates the viral transcription. So I would probably know those two features because those could be tested. They're a little bit higher yield than some of the other information in this category A section. Now lassa virus will obviously cause hemorrhagic fever because again we're talking about a category A bioteterrorism agent. But the specific symptom to lasso virus is deafness. And the way that I remember this is I think of somebody lassoing for lassa somebody's ear. You lasso up the ear so that the person can't hear and you cause deafness. So that's lasso virus. Don't forget lassoing up the ear. That's my stupid pneumonic. But that's it. That's all of the category A agents. The five that you probably have never heard of are many many viruses exist lethally. Marberg, Machupo, variola, Ebola, and Lassa. So those are your category A agents. you now know them all. So now let's talk about category B because remember on this slide we said there are three different categories. Category A are the ones that are very very lethal and category B are the intermediate agents that are still pretty lethal but not quite as lethal as category A. So just like with category A the category B agents have some that you already know and those are shown here. So you already should know about brucyosis, claustrdium peri, salmonella, shagela and the specific 0157H7 ecoli. So those are sort of like your really bad food poisoning agents, things that you can get from contaminated water such as vibrio or crypto. And then your viral and sephalidities. You already should know this stuff. This is in first aid. This is in other review sources. So I'm not going to talk about these. I'm going to talk about the three that you've probably never heard of before. And those are bulcorderia mali rinus communis and bulorderia pseudo mali. And these are really difficult to say. So you know pron pronounce these how you want to but that's how I say them. So what is the pneumonic for category B? Well pretty easy. Category B brb. Be right back. BRB for category B. Borderia mali. Bulordoria pseudomali. It's basically the same thing with a pseudo in front. and then reinus communis. So BRB this is going to be a little bit easier to memorize and and to account for mentally. So let's start with bulcardia mali. So bulcardia mali is also known as glanders. So bulcorium mali is a gram negative bipolar aerobic cocobacillus. It's non-modal and there's a little cute picture of it. You don't need to know what that picture looks like but again just to spice up the slide a little bit. As far as virulence goes bulcadorium mali uses a type four secretion system and that's really high yield. So don't forget what that means. It's a type four secretion system. Basically, it has its own injection system to inject virulent contents into whatever cell it's targeting. So, the way that this works is it lices an entry vacule and then it causes the growth of multi-ucleated giant cells which help propagate the infection. Now, the original host of buladorium mali is horses. So, you know, if you've taken any practice questions, you know that test writers love to ask you about hosts and vectors. So know that horses are the host for bulcordia mali symptoms and treatment. So this causes glanders. I told you that it's also known as glanders. And what is glanders? So glanders has a couple uh unique features to it. The first is that it can be pulmonary glanders. So so generally speaking glanders is the formation of abscesses in certain certain cavities or certain tissues. So pulmonary glanders is pulmonary abscesses. Abscesses can technically form anywhere. It just has a propensity to form in the lungs. You also get certain things like nasal discharge. And if you go on Google and you you type in the word glanders, you'll probably see a lot of pictures of horses with like this really disgusting looking uh infectious discharge coming out of their nose because since the host is horses, it it disproportionately affects horses. But in humans, humans also get a really nasty nasal discharge with abscess formation along the respiratory tract. So that is sort of how glanders manifest in humans. Now treatment is going to be supportive. We don't have anything to treat this. But bul cordurora mali causes glanders specifically abscess formations in the lungs with some nasty nasal discharge. Don't forget the type 4 secretion system. The way that I remember this is that uh nasal discharge coming from your upper respiratory tract is a secretion. So hence type four secretion system for bulcordia mali. So that is our first agent in category B. Now, because Bulcordia Mali and Bulcradoria Pseudomali are very, very similar sounding, I'm going to skip the R for now and go right into Pseudomali. So, let's talk about that. Now, this is not known as glanders. That's an error on the slide. This is actually known as Whitmore's disease. So, Bordia pseudomali aka Whitmore's disease. This is a gram negative bipolar aerobic modal rodshaped agent that has a safety pin appearance. So, that's a lot of descriptive uh characteristics. The reason that I put them on the slide is because oftent times uh exam writers love to ask you these stupid details. So I do think that they're unfortunately worth knowing. So try to memorize that. But this is what it looks like. It's a grab negative bipolar aerobic modal rodshaped safety pin appearing agent. And if you say that 10 times maybe you'll finally memorize it. Now this is known as Whitmore's disease. And how this works is that the virulence is really because of a super strong fleella uh at the back of this pathogen. So it can propulse itself very strongly and cause infection. Now infection in humans is because of contact with dust, soil or droplets. Now the people that are most at risk of contracting Whitmore's disease or bulcordia pseudomali are those with diabetes. So someone who's already immuno compromised. Now this can manifest acutely or chronically. Now acutely it's going to look like a pneumonia. It's going to look very very similar to pneumonia. But chronically it's going to look more like tuberculosis. So keep those things in mind. It's going to disproportionately affect the lungs. Kind of like how bulidoria mali caused lung abscesses. This causes acutely a pneumonia chronically a picture more consistent with tuberculosis. But keep that in mind and remember that this affects disproportionately those who are immuno compromised such as diabetics. Now the treatment here is going to be IV septacidm or merapenum. There is oral agents. However, if they give this to you on your exam, it's probably going to be in the setting of somebody who's really really sick since this is a bioteterrorism agent. So I really only think it's worth memorizing the IV treatment which is septaced or merapenum. So that is boidora pseudomali. So now we've talked about both barkordas and if I were going to quickly summarize I would say that they affect the lungs. Remember mali or glanders causes pulmonary abscesses and a little bit of nasty discharge. Pseudomali is going to look like a pneumonia acutely or a tuberculosis chronically and affect those who are already imunompromised. The last category B agent that we need to quickly talk about is rinus communis. Now rinus communis is actually a toxin and this is found in the caster bean mash. So all over the world um caster beans are used to produce oils. And when the caster beans get mashed up there's a resin that's found in them which is this toxin. So it's sort of a byproduct of how we mash up these beans to produce oils. And the toxin itself is what is really toxic and be can be used as a bioteterroristic agent. So the castor oil plant is shown there on the left and the castor beans are shown there on the right on this slide. And when you mash up the beans, one of the byproducts in this reaction that sort of sits there once you take the oil out is this reinous toxin. Now reinous toxin prevents protein translation. So if it's injected or ingested or inhaled, it prevents protein translation which can obviously be quite deadly in a human that relies on translation in order to form end products. The symptoms here uh it it's going to cause pulmonary edema which will lead to heart failure. So that's primarily how this manifests. But the other uh way that this could come about is if this is actually ingested, it could look a little bit like a food poisoning which could quickly progress into hypoalmic shock because of the degree of nausea and vomiting and diarrhea that ensues. So treatment here is just supportive. Uh but that is reinous toxin coming from the plant the castor oil plant. Um this is a pretty toxic substance and it doesn't get a lot of sexy headlines because it comes from a plant but it is definitely a bioteterrorism agent. So I would know this one. But that's all of our category B agents. Remember category B bridoria mali rinus communis and bulcadoria pseudomali. Those are your category B agents. So of course we're going to wrap up now and talk about category C. And luckily there are already a lot that you know in category C which I'm not going to talk about. Those are tuberculosis, SARS, yellow fever, influenza and haunt virus. So you should already be familiar with these if you've studied your microbiology. If not, get right to it. But because you already know this, there are really only two category C agents that you've probably never heard about before, and that's what I'm going to focus on today. So, those two category C agents that you've probably never heard about are the nepa virus and chickuna. Chickenuna, that's a tough one to say, but fun to say once you get it down. So, what is our pneumonic for remembering nepa virus and chicken for category C? Well, we've done A, we've done B, and now we're on C. Now, category C. So N and now and C and C for nepa and chickonga chickong guna. So let's start by talking about the nepa virus. So the nepa virus is an RNA paramixa virus. This was actually identified. So after the Ebola crisis happened in the in within the past two years, uh a task force came up with a list of viruses that could be possible uh future epidemics and nepa virus was identified as as a potentially really dangerous virus that we don't know too much about that could be really really bad if it starts to spread. So that was included in this category C uh list that was uh designed by this task force. So nepo virus RNA paramixa virus looks like that little picture there. And how this works is the host is actually fruit bats. Um and it's transmitted to humans and pigs who come in contact with the fruit bats or in humans who consume raw date palm sap. So in uh in Africa there are these trees, the raw date palms and sap comes off the trees and and you see in this picture on the right on this slide, a lot of cultures will put these bottles up there and collect the date palm sap. Now as they collect it, if they eat raw date palm sap, it could contain nepo virus. And we're not quite sure if that's because fruit bats have gotten to it first and infected it with the virus. But consuming raw date palms sap or coming in contact with fruit bats is how nepa virus is transmitted. So I would know both of those buzzwords. So fruit bats and raw date palms sap can can uh transmit nepa virus. So nepa virus causes an encphylitis that can progress to psychosis and seizure and treatment is going to be supportive. The way that I remember nepa virus is I think of a kipah which like a Jewish ke which goes on your head and because it's on the head that reminds me of encphilitis seizure and psychosis. These are all things that manifest because of the brain. So nepa the nepa kipa the Jewish kea on your head causing encphilitis psychosis or seizures treatment is just going to be supportive here. So I think that was pretty easy. A lot of buzzwords to know there but not too bad to memorize. Our last agent for the entire lecture today and so you'll know all the bio bioteterrorism agents is chickong. So chickonguna uh funny funny name. This is an RNA toga virus. It's positive sense and single stranded. Not too much that you need to know here. Basically this is um transmitted from a bite from the 80s mosquito biting humans. It replicates in fiberblast and endothelial cells and hence spreads the pathogen that way. symptoms here. It really just causes a fever and an arthralgia. Fever and an arthralgia are your two major symptoms here. And that arthralgia that or arthritis, if you will, will last for a very very long time. So, constant joint pain, really achy and annoying. Um, this can be weaponized to cause really bad arthritis. I know it sounds silly, but it's it's really quite serious. We don't have a vaccine. Treatment is just supportive. The pneummonic for remembering chicken is that it sounds like chicken. And when you eat chicken wings or chicken legs, you're eating chicken joints. And that reminds me of the arthralgia that is caused in joints. So chick una for chicken joints reminds me of the arthralgas. That's all of our category C agents, which concludes the video today. I hope that this was helpful to you. I know that it might seem like I went through this very quickly and a lot of these agents you've never heard of before, but if you remember how you tackled studying bacteria or viruses for the first time in general before you knew what like staff orius was, the way that you learned it is you just hit that material over and over again and you memorize the nitty-gritty details. If you want to be proficient with bioteterrorism agents, that's really the only way to do it. And at the very least, if you understand these things, it'll make you sound really, really cool when you go home for family dinners and you tell everybody about the different ways that they can die.