 This video is briefly on the modified centaur criteria and this video is included in my clinical scales series. As a brief overview, the modified centaur criteria is used to help you determine the usefulness or the utility of rapid antigen testing and where applicable the empiric treatment of suspected bacterial group A streptococcal infections. So this has been a summary of the somewhat debated topic over the past 10 to 20 years. In short, the 2012 IDSA guidelines do not recommend empiric treatment of suspected group A strep. The IDSA guidelines recommend first-line rapid antigen testing and in children, if rapid antigen testing is negative, they recommend follow up with a throat culture for more specificity. But the idea of the centaur criteria came about because you would be seeing patients in clinic who have symptoms that may or may not be associated with group A streptococcal infection. And therefore, this criteria was put into place to help with some type of predictive value to determine how likely is it that this patient has a bacterial group A streptococcal infection. And based on this score, should I begin empiric treatment or what are my next steps? So historically, as far as exams are concerned, modified centaur criteria were useful on your peds shelf and your family medicine shelf. Occasionally, it can help you on boards when you're looking through a vignette and you're trying to see what are the symptoms that they're describing and how attributable might this be to bacterial group A strep infections. So let's go through the modified centaur criteria. This is going to be more clinically useful for you in your third and fourth year of medical school. And particularly when you're taking your shelf exams for peds and family medicine. That said, it's very useful for step two, level two and beyond as well. So centaur is c-e-n-t-o-r and each of those letters stands for something. Beginning with c, c stands for cough. And so if there is a present cough, you don't get any points. If there's no cough, you add one point. Because in a bacterial strep infection, it is unlikely that cough would be present. Cough would make you think more of a viral etiology. So absence of cough equals one point. The E in centaur is exudate. So if there is exudate and tonsillar swelling, you get one point. If there's no exudate and no tonsillar swelling, you get zero points. Again, because in a bacterial strep pharyngitis, you're probably going to see exudate present. The N in centaur stands for nodes. So we're talking about the anterior cervical lymph nodes. So if you have anterior cervical lymph adenopathy, you get a point. And if you do not have swollen anterior cervical lymph nodes, you get zero points. The T in centaur stands for temperature. So if you have a true fever, meaning greater than 38 degrees Celsius or 100.4 Fahrenheit, you get a point. If there's no fever, you don't get any points. So the absence of a fever probably suggests some non-bacterial etiology. So the presence of fever points you in the direction of bacterial strep pharyngitis. And then the OR in centaur is young or old. So depending on the age of the patient in the test question, that will either be worth 1 point, 0 points, or negative 1 points. So if the patient is between the ages of 3 and 14, you add a point. If they are between the ages of 15 to 44, there are 0 points. And if they are 45 or older, you actually subtract 1 point. And as you can see here, the older the patient gets, the less likely it is that they have a bacterial strep pharyngitis. As you age, your immune system develops immunity, develops better defense systems against bacterial strep pharyngitis. So this is very common in 3 to 14-year-olds, less common in adults, very uncommon in your older adults and the elderly. So we have CENT and OR. And when we put all of that together, our interpretation should look like this. So if the score, if the total centaur score is negative 1 to 1, in short, the guideline says no antibiotics are needed, no throat culture is needed, and the approximate risk of strep, and this differs depending on what you read, is less than 10%. If the score is 2 to 3, you would definitely need a throat culture. Because the score is, shall we say, only 2 to 3, you would have to confirm rapid antigen testing with a throat culture. If that throat culture was positive, obviously you would treat with an antibiotic because that would suggest you have a true bacterial group A strep pharyngitis. And if the score is 2 to 3, the approximate risk of strep, again, this varies slightly depending on what you read, approximately 15 to 32%. Lastly, if your centaur is 4 to 5, then guidelines suggest you definitely want to do rapid strep testing, which in most cases will be positive. But you want to always consider culture if that test is negative. So if the rapid strep is negative, but you have a 4 to 5 score on your centaur criteria, i.e. you have lots of symptoms suggestive of an underlying bacterial group A strep pharyngitis, you definitely want to do your throat culture to make sure that this is ruled out because all of your signs and symptoms are pointing you in this direction. Empiric treatment was previously recommended with a centaur of 4 to 5, but no longer. Again, those IDSA guidelines in 2012 changed. But the approximate risk of strep, if the centaur is 4 to 5, is at least 56%, if not more. So again, go through this video, look at your criteria. All of the centaur criteria align with what you would expect to see in a bacterial strep pharyngitis. So this is very useful for your pediatric shelf exam, for your family medicine shelf exam, step 2, level 2, and your clinical rotations. That is your modified centaur criteria.