In today's video, we're going to be talking about mood stabilizers and we'll also touch a little bit on bipolar disorders since the conversations go hand inand. Now, in this video, we're going to talk about mood stabilizers. And primarily when we use the word mood stabilizers, what we are referring to is a group of drugs that treats different aspects of bipolar disorder. And that group of drugs is shown here on this slide. Certainly, this is not an all-inclusive list. There are more drugs than what you see pictured on this slide that in real life are actually used to treat bipolar disorder. But as far as USMLE and complex goes and what you should be responsible to know, you want to know these five. So you've got lithium, valproic acid, lamotrogene, carbomasopene, and oxcarbasipene. Before we talk about each of these drugs individually, it's important to point out one really important fact about bipolar disorder that's high yield enough to help you get some free points on test day. For those who don't know, bipolar disorder is named bipolar because it has two poles. One pole being the manic pole or the manic end of the disease and the other pole being the depressive or uh end of the disease. And patients can fall into either of these two poles. If you're having an episode of depression, it doesn't mean that you have major depressive disorder necessarily. You could just be in the depressed phase or at the depressed pole of bipolar disorder. And likewise, somebody who's manic is not necessarily having a psychotic illness. If they're manic, they could just be on the manic pole of bipolar disorder. And the reason that this is really high yield for USML and complex is because oftent times when the test writer writes the question depending on which pole of the illness they're putting a patient in in that example that's going to affect what the correct answer choice is going to be. And what I'm saying is that the person who writes this question for USML or complex obviously in real life has familiarity with bipolar disorder. And in real life, depending on if the patient is manic or if the patient is depressed. So that is to say, depending on which pole they're currently at within bipolar disorder, it affects the medication choice. So if the question writes about a patient who's manic, it's possible that the question is pointing to a drug that primarily treats mania. Whereas if the question puts a patient in the depressed pole, the test writer might be going for a different answer. So how does that help you? Well, this isn't written in first aid. This isn't written in question banks. But if you know this, and this is just good clinical information, it can help you reason through these questions if you otherwise don't know the information that you needed to memorize about the mood stabilizers. So with that in mind, let's talk briefly about what drugs treat mania, what drugs treat depression, and what the test writer might be hinting at depending on how they paint the picture for you in the example. So in the manic phase of the illness, the gold standard treatment is lithium. For patients who are just manic most of their life and don't really experience the depressed pole, you want to treat them with lithium. Now, patients who are on the depressed phase of the illness, they're better served by treatment with lamotrogene. So, I'm showing you I'm illustrating this for you by using different lines. If you're on the top part of the graph, you spend most of your time at the manic pole. And those patients usually get treated with lithium first. And depressed pole patients, well, they're going to be treated with lamotrogene. There is a variant where there is a mixed or rapid cycling bipolar disorder where the patient actually experiences alternating mania and depression and those patients are better treated with valproic acid. So these are the three main mood stabilizers that we utilize. And then of course there's carbomasopene and oxcarbazipene which don't necessarily fit into a manic or depressive hole per se, but they're sort of used when these three aren't really getting a good response. So again, the reason that I'm telling you this is not because you need to memorize this for USML or complex, but because if you care at all enough to reason through the question, if the question is writing about somebody and the question tells you that this patient spends, you know, 90% of their time in the depressed phase of bipolar disorder, but has only been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. If that's a question about mood stabilizers, I would bet my house that they're going to talk about lamotrogene because that is the drug that is primarily used for the depressed phase or the depressed pole of bipolar disorder. So this graph can be useful to you clinically and I would encourage you once you're a third year and beyond to come back and look at this because this will help you not only on USML and complex but on your psych rotation as well. So, that's a little bit about bipolar disorder and about which mood stabilizer goes for which pull, which the treatment of which pull. Let's go through and fill out this graph because this is really the takeaway from today's video. It's understanding not only the mechanism of these mood stabilizers, but also what cautions you should be looking out for because those cautions and those adverse drug reactions is going to be about probably what 75% of the questions on mood stabilizers are about. So, I do have a video on anti-seizure drugs. And because most of the mood stabilizers are anti-epileptics, I would encourage you to look at that video if you want all of my silly pneumonics for memorizing the mechanisms of all of these different drugs. The exception obviously being lithium, which doesn't treat seizures at all. So, I'm going to just fill in this chart and I'm not going to talk about the mechanisms at all. Again, if you want pneumonics for the mechanisms, check out the anti-epileptic video because I've already gone through all of that before. What's incredibly important for you to take away from this video are two things. One, one mechanism I will talk about is lithium's mechanism. So, lithium, if you, you know, if you look in first aid, I'm going to bet that it says mechanism unknown. And that's technically not true. We do we do know how lithium works. It modulates the phosphotol pathway. It does a lot of other things as well, but this is what could start to show up on USMLE on complex on your shelf exams. We're learning more and more about this as as continuous research comes out. So, in order to memorize that, instead of saying phosphoinositol pathway, I think you should say phospholitol pathway because the li is the chemical symbol for lithium, the li. So, lithium lithium modulates phospholositol. And that's just a stupid easy way to memorize that. Again, the important takeaway from this slide is all of the adverse drug reactions, all of the cautions. For lithium, it's a ton of stuff, right? You've got nephroenic, diabetes, incipitus, hyper and hypothyroidism, Epstein's anomaly, chronic kidney disease. For valproic acid, you have thrombocytoenia, elevation of your LFTs, neural tube defects, and pancreatitis. For lamotrogene, you've got the famous Stevens Johnson syndrome. For carbomasopene, you'll see a granuloscytosis. You could see Siadh. And this is an extremely extremely potent P450 inducer. Now, instead of just going through this, I think the best way to approach this is to give you practice questions with lab printouts and physical exam pictures and ask you what is the drug that they're talking about. So, the way that this will work on test day is you'll get a question that'll look something like this. It'll tell you that a male has a med has a medical history of an unknown mood disorder. Maybe they'll say bipolar, maybe they won't. They'll tell you that he's got some medical problem, right? They're going to be vague about it. They're going to be like h headache, GI upset, whatever. It's going to be non-specific, but what's really specific is they'll say on review of his labs, you note the following. And they'll give you that little lab print out. And that'll have a little area where you can check the normal values. So don't worry if you don't know what's normal for all of these, but we'll go through this and assume that you do. And then it'll ask you which of the following medications is responsible for this adverse drug reaction or which of the following medications was this patient prescribed. And what the question is basically asking you is what mood stabilizer is causing the problem that I've written about in this question. That's what the test writer is going for. And your choices will be lithium, valproic acid, lamotrogene, carbomasopene or oxcarbazipene. Or maybe they'll be really annoying and they'll throw in other distractors like you know SSRIs etc etc. So let's start with this example. So you've got this print out and obviously there's some problem with one of these labs and if you've been doing enough practice questions you can probably look at this and already identify what the problem is. The problem is that the white cell count is low and therefore the answer here is carbomasopene because what the test writer might be going for is a granuloccytosis or neutropenia. So in this one that is the drug that's responsible for the reaction. So we're going to go through this rather quickly. This is sort of rapid review. What about this one? I didn't change the vignette at all. All I did was change the labs around. So, which of the following medications is responsible for this adverse drug reaction? You can pause the video if you want to think about this, but the answer is going to be lithium. So, you see that the creatinine is elevated and lithium does cause nephropathy. It causes a chronic interstial nefritis. It causes nephrogenic diabetes and cypitus. And in all of those cases, you could see a bump in your creatinine. So the fact that we're seeing an elevation of creatinine on this lab printout shows you that lithium is the drug responsible because none of these other medications are really going to do that. What about this example? Pause the video if you'd like some more time to think about it. But if you've been doing enough practice questions, you'll probably recognize that in this example, platelets are low. And the only medication that causes thrombocytoenia profoundly on this list is going to be valproic acid. So B valproic acid. Now in this question, I left the the uh vignette pretty much the same and I changed one sentence. I wrote on physical exam, you know the following. And then there's a picture and the question is now which of the following adverse drug reaction. And what you're seeing here if you're even if you're not sure that this is Stevens Johnson syndrome, you should assume that it is given the five answer choices because no drug besides lamotrogene causes Stevens Johnson syndrome or a malignant appearing rash on the mucosal surfaces. So you can safely assume because we're talking about mood stabilizers that this is probably SJS or Stevens Johnson syndrome and therefore the answer is lamotrogene. Now let's do this practice question. So we're going back now to the review of labs and on this labout we're looking at liver function tests or LFTs and we're looking at pancreatic enzymes. And the question now is which of the following medications or mood stabilizers is responsible for this adverse drug reaction. So obviously because lipase and amaase are both normal. You can assume if you're not already comfortable enough to recognize the actual values themselves, you can assume that these LFTs are elevated. And the only mood stabilizer that's going to classically cause what we refer to as a trans amaminitis where that is to say that um the LFTs are elevated. The only mood stabilizer that will do that is valproic acid. Let's move on to another example. So I know guys rapid review but I'm trying to get your brain to process this so that you get the point on test day. Um same thing and now our LFTs are normal but our pancreatic enzymes are high. And again, the only mood stabilizer that is known to cause pancreatitis is B valproic acid. So, I know I went through that really, really quickly. I understand that um you may need to watch this a few times to really get those adverse drug reactions down, but this is really going to be the bulk of your questions when you sit on test day. Again, adverse drug reactions, toxicities, that is what the test writers love to go after because these drugs, these mood stabilizers, for the most part, all have such a narrow therapeutic index. So, what should you take away from this video? Well, obviously the mechanism of lithium, the phospho liettol pathway, and then all of the adverse drug reactions that we talked about. Think about the different ways the test writers could present them to you on test day and how they could tie these into different questions. If they want to talk about Epstein's anomaly with lithium, they'll talk about reproductive and embro and embry um embryology. If they want to talk about Stevens Johnson syndrome with lameal, they'll show you a picture, right? They could just show you a picture of someone's lips or someone's eyes. If they want to go for a granuloscytosis with carbomasopene, they could show you the lab print out and give you the low white count. or they could talk about an opportunistic infection and link it to HIV in some way and then ask you about treatment or ask you about what other disease process might you see this in. So there's a lot of different ways to connect all of this material and it all becomes really high yield because the test writer wants to challenge you to think clinically and to think and reason through the information that you need to know. So yes, mood stabilizers are high yield. Yes, mood stabilizers are important. But if you if you know the up and downside chart that I showed you at the beginning of this video, you can actually reason through a lot through all of this a lot faster.