 or cardium. Myocarditis, myo meaning muscle, is inflammation of the myocardium or the heart muscle. As you can see, these two areas are very closely related to one another, and for this reason, the presentation has a lot of overlap. Just so you know, for step three, level three, and when you get on your clinical rotations, we generally classify myocarditis into acute or fulminant or chronic active or chronic persistent. You don't need to know this for step one or level one. I'm just pointing it out for completeness sake. The diagnosis of myocarditis is often challenging because the clinical presentation is very variable, very heterogeneous, and it has a lot of overlap with other cardiovascular conditions. For the purposes of step one and level one, where the test writer is very likely going to go, is with the etiologies. And just like we saw with pericarditis, myocarditis can be separated into infectious versus non-infectious etiologies. I've bulleted the ones that I think are most high yield that are likely to show up on your exam. For infectious etiologies, we have Coxsackievirus B, Parvo B19, HHV6, HIV HCV, Adenovirus, Group A beta-hemolytic strep, diphtheria, Aurelia burgdorferi, mycoplasma pneumoniae, TB, Toxoplasma gondii, trypanosoma cruzi, and trichinella. Of this list, if you only have the brain space for a few, I would memorize the ones that you see bolded in red. Group A beta-hemolytic strep, so recall that that is associated with rheumatic fever, so the patients will get myocarditis. In addition to that, they'll present with fever, an acute migratory polyarthritis, chororrhea, which is those dancing-like movements of the extremities. And even many years after the patients experience these symptoms, they ultimately develop rheumatic valvular disease, and that is all collectively known as rheumatic fever. So bottom line here, myocarditis highly associated with Group A beta-hemolytic strep due to rheumatic fever, due to one of the symptoms of rheumatic fever being myocarditis. Now in the case of Borrelia burgdorferi, you need to understand that this pathogen and Lyme disease in general presents with a host of various different symptoms across various different organ systems. And as it relates to the heart, this typically presents with a myopericarditis, which is to say there's myocarditis and there's pericarditis. So there's inflammation of the heart muscle and there's inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart muscle. And because of that, the presentation is going to be variable and heterogeneous. So you'll see some symptoms of myocarditis, some symptoms of pericarditis, and this is due to Borrelia burgdorferi. So very, very important to know. Of note as well, this typically presents with a third degree or complete AV block in addition to the myopericarditis. And then lastly, in the case of trypanosoma cruzi, this also presents with a myopericarditis. In addition, you want to be on the lookout for signs and symptoms of heart failure because this can progress into dilated cardiomyopathy, signs and symptoms of venothromboembolism, and you'll also potentially see some arrhythmias. So on your exam, bottom line here, if you're like, what do I need to know? What causes myocarditis that's infectious? You've obviously got a big list here, but if you can only muster the brain space for a few, group A beta hemolytic strep, Borrelia burgdorferi, and trypanosoma cruzi causing Chagas disease, those are, in my opinion, the big three. Now let's switch gears and look at the non-infectious side. So on the non-infectious side, we have dermatomyositis, polymyositis, lupus, and sarcoidosis. So right off the bat, we're seeing a lot of connective tissue disease or related disease, just like we saw in pericarditis. The big one that I think you should know for the non-infectious etiologies is Kawasaki disease. Now in Kawasaki disease, you have the inflammatory system being activated, and ultimately what happens is oligoclonal IgA plasma cells lead to this cascade that causes coronary arteritis and basically triggers this disease process that turns into a myocarditis. So yes, I want to be clear, there is a arteritis, right? Inflammation of some type of artery, but there also is a myocarditis, and that's what we're talking about in this video. So on Kawasaki disease, know that you can get a myocarditis. That's very, very important. Some medications can cause it. The big one to know is doxorubicin. Other ones include clozapine, anthracycline, and sulfonamides. Vaccines can do it. Radiation can do it. Toxins, this one is kind of peculiar. Black widow venom can cause myocarditis. So I don't think it's likely that you'll see black widow venom on your exam, but if you do, they're probably going to go after myocarditis. And then lastly, carbon monoxide, also technically a toxin, can cause myocarditis as well. So if you're looking at this slide and you're like, man, that's a pretty big list. I don't really want to memorize all of that. Then just know the ones that I bolded. Now clinical features, again, I really want to underscore that the presentation is variable, heterogeneous, and oftentimes patients can even be asymptomatic or present with something that doesn't look like it has anything to do with the heart. That is to say, a lot of patients will present with generalized flu-like symptoms, and it might look like they have an upper respiratory infection or some type of gastrointestinal infection, but in fact, they have myocarditis. So the presentation is going to look very similar, as I said, to pericarditis or dilated cardiomyopathy. And in very severe disease, this will present or progress to acute heart failure. And if that's the case, you're obviously going to see signs and symptoms of acute heart failure, like your S3 gallop, dyspnea, et cetera. But on your exam, they're going to give you bread and butter myocarditis. They're going to give you a patient with sinus tachycardia who has a low-grade fever and vague, generalized kind of flu-like symptoms. That is the classical presentation of myocarditis. Sinus tachycardia is the most common arrhythmia that you'll see here, but be on the lookout for PACs or PVCs and repolarization abnormalities, usually in all leads. Not always, but usually. So bottom line, sinus tachycardia, fever, vague, generalized kind of flu-like symptoms, that's going to be how they present myocarditis to you. Now, where the test writer is going to go if you're taking step one or level one, because it can't be controversial in your exam. There has to be a clear-cut, obvious answer. And if they're making it super vague and super generalized, you're not able to get that question correct. So what they're going to do is give you the labs. And the labs are going to seal the diagnosis when used in combination with the presentation and some buzzword suggesting one of the etiologies from the slide that we looked at where it's infectious versus non-infectious. So on your labs, you're going to see an elevated troponin, an elevated CK, an elevated C-reactive protein, an elevated BNP, and usually elevated eosinophils. This should somewhat make sense. So in myocarditis, there is inflammation and subsequent breakdown of the heart muscle. So you will see elevated troponin. You will see elevated CK because the heart muscle is literally breaking. You will see an elevated C-reactive protein because you have inflammation. You will see an elevated BNP because there is this inflammatory process that's damaging the heart muscle, right? That leads to increased ventricular dysfunction, increased wall stress, and therefore the heart itself will release the BNP to try essentially to react to the hemodynamic stress placed upon it. And then eosinophils just memorize myocarditis equals eosinophils. That'll usually help you on your exam if it's a really vague presentation that you're not sure what the differential is as it relates to some heart pathology. But if I was a betting man, I would say that the test writer will give you some or all of these labs plus a buzzword that connects these labs to one of the etiologies. Now this slide to make the diagnosis is more for step two, level two, and beyond. Generally the diagnosis, the initial test that you get is a transthoracic echo. You might see a quote given in the vignette that says there is reduced ejection fraction or a wall motion abnormality. This in combination with the labs and in combination with a buzzword connecting you to an etiology suggests myocarditis. But to be clear, if step two, level two, or step three, level three asks you for the confirmatory test, not the initial test, but the confirmatory test, that would be either a cardiac MRI or an endomyocardial biopsy. So you can literally biopsy the myocardium to see what is causing the myocarditis. This is obviously very invasive and oftentimes on your exam is not going to be the correct answer because they'll just want the initial test of choice or they'll simply ask you for the diagnosis. But if you do one of the confirmatory tests, in particular the biopsy, look for myocyte necrosis. Lastly, we will conclude by talking about treatment and with myocarditis, it's pretty simple. Supportive treatment and treat the underlying cause, which is to say if the myocarditis is caused by a pathogen, treat the pathogen, right? If the myocarditis is due to a drug, remove the offending agent. If the myocarditis is causing signs and symptoms of acute heart failure, then you would go through the treatment algorithm for heart failure. So there's not like a specific drug for myocarditis. That makes treatment easy. And on your exam, it usually means that they're not going to ask you for the next step in treatment. They're either going to ask you for diagnostics or they'll work backwards and give you something that is clearly myocarditis and ask you what is the etiology and you'll have to pick from our list of etiologies. So that's myocarditis. Again, I would recommend that you watch pericarditis first and then watch myocarditis so that you have an understanding of where in the heart we're talking about and how these things present and what the etiologies are.