Just as a brief overview, we use surrogate decision makers when patients lack decision-making capacity or if they're declared incompetent by courts. Typically, they'll have a legal guardian appointed who makes all of their decisions. Surrogate decision makers follow a very specific hierarchy and we'll talk about that as we get into this video. The utilization of surrogate decision makers really does vary state by state depending on the applicable laws, but generally speaking on USMLE and complex the surrogate decision-making hierarchy is mostly accepted as universally true. So you won't you won't have to worry about the caveat of you know what state is this question being asked in. You're just going to understand the hierarchy and pick the answer based on how we use surrogate decision makers. So I think that the best way to approach this topic is to talk about what the hierarchy is for allowing patients to make decisions and then what happens if they can't make their own decisions. So obviously the place that you start is with the patient. The patient is going to have first dibs if you will on making their own decisions. And this is just common sense. It's always the patient's choice. It's only when the patient becomes incapacitated, which is to say they lack capacity, that we have to seek a surrogate or alternative decision maker. So, when the patient can't make their decision, the first thing we look for is what's known as an advanced healthcare directive. An advanced healthcare directive can take one of two forms. The first form is a durable medical power of attorney and the second form is a living will. Basically, a durable medical power of attorney is a person that the patient has appointed to make healthc care decisions for them should they become incapacitated. And a living will is a document that is prepared ahead of time so that in the event that a patient becomes incapacitated, you can refer to that document to see what their wishes are. So again, the durable medical power of attorney, sometimes referred to as a POA, is a physical person who has been appointed by the patient to make medical decisions for them. The living will, on the other hand, is a document that was prepared by the patient ahead of time, usually in accordance with a lawyer or with getting some legal help to prepare a document which says what their wishes are should they become incapacitated. So durable or medical POA is a person. Living will is a piece of paper or a document. So when the patient can't make their own decisions, the first thing you do is look for this advanced healthcare directive. Now let's do a practice question to bring up some ethical situations that you might be presented with on USMLE or Complex. A patient is incapacitated after developing severe sepsis. his durable medical power of attorney is sought to make a clinical decision regarding whether or not to proceed with a risky procedure. Which standard should the medical power of attorney use when making his or her surrogate decision? So in other words, this question is asking you when the surrogate decision maker makes the decision in place of the patient for the patient, what standard should they use? A, what would the patient have wanted? B. What does the surrogate decision maker want? C. Which decision does the physician most recommend? D. Which decision is the most logical choice? Or E, which decision is what most reasonable patients would choose? Pause the video if you'd like to think about this. And now I'm going to give you the answer. So when an when a surrogate decision maker makes a decision for a patient, they should use the standard of a what would the patient have wanted? This is actually a really high yield question and it may seem fairly obvious, but you'd be surprised how easily the wording of a question can throw you off and trick you into picking a wrong answer. When the surrogate decision maker makes a decision, they absolutely have to make the decision that the patient would have wanted, not what they want, not what they think is right, etc., etc. So, if you're taking USML or complex and the surrogate decision maker is some religious figure, they cannot make the decision based on what they or their religion says. They have to make the decision based on what the patient would have wanted. So, as you can probably imagine, if you're taking USML or COMLEX and they give you something like a Jehovah's Witness regarding a blood transfusion, it's really high yield to know that despite the surrogate decision maker being a Jehovah's Witness and not wanting blood transfusions for themselves, the correct answer is still to pick what the patient, presumably not a Jehovah's Witness, would have wanted. Very, very high yield. Please understand that distinction. The decision maker always has to decide with the standard of what did the patient tell me when they were when they had capacity and were alive and functioning. What did they tell me they wanted? Not what do I want for them. Very high yode. Please understand that. So that's the advanced healthcare directive. Now let's say there's a situation where the patient is incapacitated. They never prepared a living will and they didn't assign a durable medical power of attorney. What then? So this is where we go to the next of kin and this is where most of the questions on USMLE and COMLEX are going to go if they need a surrogate decisionmaker. So let's do a practice question to drive this home. A patient is incapacitated after developing severe sepsis. He does not have any living will or durable medical power of attorney. Next of kin is sought for a surrogate decisionmaker. The patients best friend, wife, and two adult children are all present. The patient's wife says that he would not want to proceed with the procedure, but both the adult children and the patients best friend say that he would want to proceed with the procedure. Who should make the decision? A, the patient's wife. B, the patient's adult children and best friend. C, neither. Consult the ethics committee. D, neither. Because the family disagrees, it's actually the physician's choice or e none of the above. Pause the video if you need some time to think about it. And if you're ready, here comes the answer. So in this situation, the answer is a the patient's wife. And we're going to talk about the chain of next of kin. But the patient's spouse always has priority. Okay? So this is a very absolute question. It's saying who should make the decision. It's not asking you what the best initial course of action is. It's not asking you ethically what should you do or what should you say. It's just asking you who makes the decision. And in the chain of next ofkin, the first priority goes to the spouse. Very, very high yield. We'll talk about the rest of that chain in just a second. Let's do part two of this question now. So, same vignette and now it's saying what is the best initial course of action? A nothing. the patient's wife should make the decision. B. Conduct a meeting between the disagreeing parties or C. Consult the ethics committee. Pause the video if you need some time to think. And if you're ready, here we go. Answer here is B. So when you do the next of kin chain, the spouse always gets the priority. But even though ultimately they get to make the decision, you still need to hold a meeting between the spouse and the adult children and find out why they disagree because at the end of the day, the spouse will still get to make the decision if they disagree with the adult children. But the ethically correct answer and the best initial course of action, which as you know is always an ethical question, like they always say, "What's the best initial course of action?" You still want to hold that meeting and find out why they disagree. Very, very important, very, very high yield. And you only consult the ethics committee in really rare situations. And for the purposes of USML and complex, if you see it, it's always going to be a distractor. Very rarely is this the correct answer. I'm not even going to get into the nuances of it because it's not worth taking up the brain space. But in this situation because next of kin are disagreeing even though the spouse has priority and would technically be the correct answer in making the decision the best initial course of action is still to hold this meeting. So let's talk about this chain really quickly. So in the next of kin spouse gets first priority and if the spouse isn't available right let's say they're not at the hospital or they're deceased then it goes to the adult children of the patient and if there's no adult children present then it would go to the parents of the patient and if there's no parents then it would go to the adult siblings and rarely would USML or complex go beyond adult siblings but if that happens it would then go to grandparents and then after grandparents it would go to friends okay so that's the chain of next of kin. The high yield bottom line of this video is that if the patient can't make the decision, you look for the POA or the living will. If there's no POA and no living will, you go to next ofkin. Next of kin is spouse, then adult children, then parents, then adult siblings, then grandparents, then friends. If there's disagreement in the party, ultimately you still follow the order when it comes to the absolute decision, but always do your best to conduct a meeting and find out why these parties are disagreeing and see if there's any resolution that can be reached. So this is surrogate decisionmakers.