Hey everybody, in this video we are going to be talking about an overview of pharmarmacology and the place to begin with the overview is the difference between pharmacocinetics and pharmacodnamics. Before I start with this video, please consider clicking the join button. You can find the join button on my channel either on my channel homepage or underneath any video on the channel. When you click that join button, you'll go through a series of prompts where you sign up to be a Dirty Medicine member. Now, your membership entitles you to some cool perks in exchange for monthly financial support of my channel. So, this only costs $4.99 a month, and that amount of money supports me on my mission to provide free quality medical education. Now, what do you get in exchange for being a Dirty Medicine member? You get the awesome Dirty Medicine logo, which will appear after your username anytime you comment publicly on my channel. You'll also gain access to the locked membersonly section of the channel homepage, where you can leave comments and contribute to the vote on what you want the next video topic to be. So, really, it's just a cool way for you to give back if you're interested in supporting the channel. No pressure either way, but I really appreciate your consideration. Now let's get into this video. Again, we're talking about the overview of pharmarmacology. This is the first video you should watch if you're trying to learn pharmarmacology. This is the difference between pharmacocinetics and pharmacamics. So let's start by defining what the difference is between these two words because they look pretty similar. And if you're a medical student or some other graduate health professional, you're probably looking at these and being like, what's the difference? So the difference is that pharmacocinetics describes the relationship between drug concentration and time whereas pharmacodnamics is a more general term which describes the relationship between the drug concentration and the effect. So the bottom line here is that pharmacocinetics is drug concentration changing over time. Pharmacodnamics is drug concentration and effect interacting with one another as there are different variables and situations that the body can experience. So how do you understand the difference here? The easy way to memorize this is to look at the word pharmacocinetic. So instead of saying pharmacocinetic I want you to say pharmacocinet tick because time ticks on a clock. And this will remind you that pharmaccoinetics is the one that worries about time. how drug concentration changes over time and again you'll remember that because pharmarmaccoinet tick time is ticking ticking on a clock and therefore by the process of elimination if you were taking an exam or just wanted to understand the difference between these two terms you would know that pharmacodnamics does the other thing which is the effect of the drug so that's the difference here I want to start by establishing that difference because really what's challenging to learn and to appreciate iate is pharmacocinetics. You know because it's the effect of drug changing with several different variables and that's kind of a more clinical term but pharmacocinetics is all the nitty-gritty things that you need to know for us and complex. So this video will focus on pharmacocinetics and specifically we'll be looking at concepts like absorption distribution metabolism and excretion. So these are are all pharmacocinetic principles because they all affect drug concentration over time. So that said, let's just kind of go through the important high yield topics one at a time. My goal in this video is to define these terms, explain these terms in simple terms, show you the equations that you will probably need to know for USMLE complex and inschool exams and then throw in some pneumonics where relevant to help you encode all of this information. So the first thing we really need to talk about is bioavailability. And bioavailability refers to the fraction of drug available to the systemic circulation in an unchanged form. So when you give somebody a drug, that drug will undergo a series of processes that will change the availability of the drug. And as the availability gets changed that bioavailability obviously is going to decrease and there will be less of the drug in the systemic circulation for it to carry out its effect. So what's important to know is that IV formulations of drugs have a 100% bioavailability and PO formulations or oral formulations will have less than 100% Now importantly and related to this topic is the first pass effect and the first pass effect is basically explaining why oral formulations don't have 100% bioavailability. So the first pass effect refers to pre-yic metabolism or elimination of a drug which will reduce its overall So let's imagine that you give somebody a drug, right? They're taking this pill. That pill will have to go through the intestinal epithelium as well as the liver. So it can be taken up in the interosite, it can be passed through to the liver to be taken up into the hpatosite. And in either of these situations, the end goal or the end result will be either metabolism in the hpatocy or excretion in the bile. And regardless of which path that drug takes, the overall bioavailability will be reduced because when the drug was passing through the interasite or into the hpatosite, its bioavailability was reduced because it's not it's no longer unchanged drug. At this point in time, it's been processed either for hpatic metabolism or bile excretion. So if you give somebody an IV formulation, they have 100% bioavailability. But if you give somebody an oral formulation, it goes through this first pass effect in the intestines and the liver which changes the form of the drug reducing its bioavailability. So if we look at a graph of drug concentration over time, we can show how oral versus IV formulations differ. Let's start with oral and I will depict it with purple colors on this graph. So if you give somebody a drug, you'll get an initial spike in concentration, but over time that concentration will decrease as the drug goes through a series of processes that change its form and basically metabolize and eliminate it. So it's going through first pass effect. Now you can compare that to IV formulations which I will show on this graph in green where the concentration starts off incredibly high because it's 100% bioavailable and over time that drug even in its IV form will be metabolized and ultimately eliminated. So it will go down over time in terms of in terms of concentration. Now what I would point out to you is that on this graph there there are a few moments where the concentration of the oral form actually can be a little bit higher than the IV form. But the important thing to take away is that IV formulations have 100% bioavailability that decreases its concentration predictably over time. Whereas oral formulations have to go through that first pass effect because of the intestines and the liver and therefore it's not 100% bioavailable. It's less than that. Now a good example clinically is nitroglycerin. Nitroglycerin cannot be given orally. It has to be given pretty much sublingually. And the reason for that is that theoretically had you given somebody nitroglycerin orally there would be almost no bioavailability because of the way that that drug gets processed and handled in the preyic circulation right it just under goes extensive preymic changes. So that's the reason why if you're ever working in an emergency room or other level of care once you're in your third or fourth year of medical school, you'll never see somebody given oral nitroglycerin because it just has no bioavailability. So that's bioavailability and first pass effect. Very important to understand these concepts. Let's talk briefly about transport. There's really not a whole lot to say about transport. The only thing that I want you to know is that drugs have to pass through membranes. And in order to do that they will utilize both passive diffusion and active transport. Really not much else to memorize here. So let's just move on to metabolism. Now metabolism is very important and it's very high yield. Metabolism refers to the various mechanisms by which drugs are converted to their metabolites. And for the purposes of exams, you really want to know the difference between phase 1 and phase 2 metabolism. Now, phase 1 metabolism is what we commonly think of when we're talking about the P450 enzyme system. And specifically, we're most often talking about oxidation reactions. However, phase 1 metabolism also includes reduction and hydraysis reactions. Phase 2 metabolism is conjugation and more specifically it goes through sulfation, methylation, acetylation, and glucaronidation. Something that's very important to know for the purposes of exams is that geriatric patients tend to favor phase 2 metabolism. And because of this, they can experience adverse effects of drugs if they are slow blankers. And I'm saying blankers because the question could tell you that they are slow at sulfation or they're slow methylators or slow acetylators. So if you get a question on USML or complex and they either describe to you in the vignette or use some type of image or graph to show you that the person's functioning for sulfation, methylation, acetylation or glucaronidation is slow. Then if you can't metabolize drugs using those mechanisms, the drug could build up in the person's system and therefore be toxic and they would experience adverse effects. So for geriatric patients, this is clinically a concern because they favor phase 2 metabolism and therefore if there's any reason why they can't do one of those processes that you see on the slide, they could have a buildup of the drug and adverse effects. So that's metabolism. Just know phase 1 versus phase 2. Know which types of reactions fall into each phase. And know that the P450 enzyme system is phase one. Now, let's talk about the volume of distribution. Now, we're starting to get into the terms that for most medical students are really confusing. So, I'm going to try to overexlain this to make this very easily digestible. The volume of distribution refers to the theoretical volume occupied by a drug compared to its plasma concentration. So this is simply a ratio. It's the theoretical volume or the amount of the drug compared to its plasma concentration. So when we look at the volume of distribution, we're really asking ourselves where in the body is the drug accumulating or what volume is being occupied by the drug and where is it in the body. So you can think of the volume of distribution as a spectrum. And on the far left you would have drugs that are highly bound to plasma proteins. And on the far right you would have drugs that are highly distributed to tissue compartments. And if a drug is highly bound to a plasma protein, it will have a low volume of distribution because most of the drugs will be attached to the proteins and will be circulating free in the plasma. So drugs that tend to do that tend to be large and charged. So in my head when I was learning this, I was thinking large, charged, low volume of distribution. It uses the fact that it's large. It uses the fact that it's charged to latch on to those plasma proteins and ride the proteins in the plasma. Because it's riding through the plasma, it's not being distributed into fat tissues. Therefore, it has a low volume of distribution. Now, on the other end of the spectrum, drugs that tend to be highly distributed into fat tissue have that high volume of distribution. And those molecules tend to be small and lipopilic. So, drugs that are small and lipopilic like to nestle their way into fat tissue and be distributed. So this difference of where the drugs are either riding the plasma on the plasma proteins or being distributed into the tissue tells you a lot about the volume of distribution in terms of whether it is low or high. So as far as the calculation goes just know that the volume of distribution is equal to the amount of the drug divided by the plasma concentration. And as you can see that formula gives you some insight into how much drug you're measuring in the body and therefore where is it being distributed is it being distributed at all. So a related topic to volume of distribution is halflife and this will be more clear toward the end of this discussion. But half-life refers to the time required to reduce the amount of drug in the body by 1/2. And when we talk about half-life, we have to first talk about two different types of elimination. There's zeroorder elimination and first order elimination. Now let's compare and contrast these in various domains. So first the rate of elimination. In zeroorder elimination the rate of elimination is constant but in first order elimination the rate of elimination is directly proportional to the drug concentration. Now, we also need to talk about the time to steady state. And really, we're only concerned with first order elimination here. In first order elimination, it takes about four to five half- livives to reach steady state. So, in real life, clinically, you would probably calculate about 4 1/2 half- lives. Whatever the half-life of the drug is, 4 1/2 times that half-life gets you to steady state concentration. That is where your concentration doesn't change. And then as far as the actual formula for half-life, again we're really only interested in first order elimination here. The formula is 0.7 times the volume of distribution divided by clearance. So as I told you on the previous slide, half-life and volume of distribution are very much related because you see here volume of distribution is in the half-life formula for first order elimination. Now as far as the big conceptual picture of why this matters, the reason that this matters is that most drugs undergo first order elimination and therefore you can calculate roughly how much time to study state etc etc. But because most drugs are first order elimination, exams like to ask you which drugs are zeroorder elimination because obviously those are the exceptions to the rule. So you want to memorize that aspirin, ethanol, and phenitoin are three common examples of zeroorder elimination. So with this in mind, let's look at zero order and first order elimination and create some concentration over time graphs to show you what these look like. Now for zero order, it's just that straight line slanting downward. But for first order elimination, because we're really using half- livives here, you can see that that decrease is somewhat exponential as you go down. And something that's very important to understand clinically and just generally is that that initial drop in concentration in first order elimination is due to distribution. It's not due to clearance. And I really want to hammer home this point because I think once you get into your third or fourth year of medical school, if you understand how drugs are being processed by the body, you'll have a much greater appreciation for what you're actually doing when you treat patients. So as far as first order elimination goes, if we kind of blow up the concentration over time graph here, I'm going to illustrate what happens with various half- livives. So those black dots that you see on the curve, those each represent a half-life. So for the first halflife you assume that we have 100% of the drug available in the body. But the half-life is going to reduce the amount of drug in the body by 1/2. So the first halflife or going from the first black dot to the second black dot effectively reduces the amount of drug in the body by 50%. Because we had 100% of it now we're going through our first halflife so it drops by 50%. Now the question which could be posed to you on USMLE or COMLEX is what happens next? Well, at this point you're going to go through at some time in the future the second halflife and you've already reduced the drug amount by 50%. Which means now you have 50% of the original amount left. This means that on the next halflife you're going to reduce the amount of drug in the body by 25%. Because you started at 100, you went through your first halflife and reduced it by 50. You had 50 left over and then you went through the second halfife and reduce that 50 by half which is reducing by 25. And then the same thing will happen at the third halfife. Now you've already reduced by a total of 75% which leaves you with 25% left over. Therefore, the next half-life will reduce half of that 25%, which means it will reduce 12.5%. Now, this will happen over and over until you get to steady state because at steady state, you're really no longer reducing concentration because your half- livives as you go into more half- livives have less available concentration or le less available amount to reduce. Now the point I made before which I thought was very important for you to understand is that this steep drop in the beginning of the curve is actually due to distribution into the tissues. So once the drug is inside of the body and goes through that distribution and when I say distribution I'm really referring to the concept of volume of distribution right the drug is either being attached to plasma proteins and riding the plasma or being deposited into fat tissues. Now that distribution that shoving the drug into its right compartments is going to reduce the concentration and this big drop at the beginning of the curve is due to distribution. It's not due to elimination. Now ultimately as we get to the bottom portion of this curve that is where elimination comes in. So initially drug gets put into its distributed area and then as we get closer to the fourth and fifth halflife some of the drug will be eliminated and the combination of all of these kinetic processes get you close to steady state. I hope that makes sense. We really just want to remember this because it is an important concept. Now let's talk about elimination. Elimination refers to the volume of the body that's cleared of a drug over a unit of time. And when we talk about elimination, we're really talking about something called clearance. And the clearance formula is the rate of elimination divided by the plasma concentration. And that can also be rewritten as the volume of distribution times some elimination constant. So, I know the formulas are annoying to memorize, but you could be asked the formulas and you could be asked to solve equations on your exam. So, I'm putting it here for completeness sake. Now, the important thing to know about elimination is that elimination can be impaired by diseases that alter cardiac, hpatic or renal functioning. So, if a drug gets eliminated renally or hypatically etc. If you have some disease that knocks out that function, obviously elimination will be affected and you could have adverse effects. What's really important to understand is that clearance and dose of the drug only determine the magnitude of steady state, but they do not determine the fact that you're at steady state. Period. So, I want to clarify this because this confuses a lot of people. So the thing that determines how long it takes to get to steady state is only half-life. So 4 and 1/2 half- livives, right? I'm saying four and a half because it's four to five half- livives to steady state gets you to steady state. And as the name implies, it's a steady state. The concentration theoretically doesn't change. The amount of drug shouldn't change anymore over time. So half-life determines the time to steady state but clearance and the dose of the drug determine the magnitude. So you can have steady state at a high magnitude where the concentration is higher but not changing or you can have steady state at a lower magnitude where the concentration is lower and not changing. And I want to illustrate that in two different examples here. So let's say that in example one you take a drug. Let's say it's 40 milligs. This is just an arbitrary number. Doesn't matter what the drug is or what the milligs are. And you get to study state because 4 and 1/2 half- livives have taken place. So you're taking the drug as prescribed, it's 40 millig, and your body is using clearance to eliminate the drug. But because you're at steady state, the concentration of drug over time doesn't change. Now, example B, same exact thing, but this time you're taking 80 millig. So although in both examples you're both at steady state so the concentration over time isn't changing in example B the magnitude of that steady state will be higher so the concentration of the drug at steady state will be higher although in both examples it's not changing and the point is is that only clearance so the rate of clearance or the rate of elimination and the amount of drug in that determines the magnitude ude of steady state but it does not determine the fact that you're at steady state. That second part is solely due to halflife. So the summary here is what you see in the purple outlined box. Drug concentration at the beginning and end of a unit time is unchanged if you're at steady state. And in both of these examples, you're in steady state. only the magnitude gets changed because that's determined by the dose of the drug in and the rate of the clearance out. Okay, so we did a lot in this video. We talked about a lot of confusing pharmaccoinetic topics and I recognize that this conversation in this video is a bit more advanced than what you may have seen in some of your review textbooks, but I did that intentionally. I think it's important for you to understand how pharmacocinetics works because if you're on an exam and you're stuck and you don't really understand what they're asking you, you're not sure how to utilize your formulas to solve a problem. Simply having a little bit of a higher level understanding of these principles can get you the question correct. It's also going to be a great way for you to show off when you get into third year and beyond where you're actually out on the floors and you're showing off this knowledge to your attendings and your residents and what have you. So, I hope that this video was useful to you. Please leave me some feedback in the comments section and keep up the excellent work.