 In this video, i.g. In this video, i will help you learn everything you need to know about what you see on this slide. We'll be talking about abruptio placenta, the placenta, the placenta, accreta, spectrum, and to be clear, i didn't put that term on this slide, but PAS, or placenta, accreta, spectrum, refers to all of placenta, accreta, placenta, and placenta, percreta. We'll also talk about placenta, previa, and vasocenta, and vasoprevia. So when you're looking at this slide, you can probably appreciate that these words sound similar. There's a lot of overlapping symptoms between these things, and so when you go through this for the first time, it can be a bit tricky, but in this video, i'll help you differentiate between these terms and pick up free points on test day by utilizing some very, very good mnemonics. So let's start with abruptio placenta. This refers to placental detachment from the uterine wall, the fore delivery. On your exam, you'll recognize abruptio placenta because they're going to give you somebody who has third trimester, abrupt onset, painful bleeding. The key here is that it's painful, and we'll come back to that in just a moment. Risk factors for abruptio placenta include a deceleration, motor vehicle injury, and cocaine use. Those are the two big ones that you'll probably see on your exam if the test writer goes after risk factors. But you can also see this in patients who smoke, have hypertension, preeclampsia, or a maternal age greater than or equal to 35. Now, focus here on the deceleration, motor vehicle injury, and cocaine, because if the test writer wants you to pick abruptio placenta, they'll give you third trimester painful bleeding, but they might give you things like the motor vehicle injury or cocaine and expect you to put these things together, because third trimester bleeding can be a bit vague. But add in the cocaine abuse, but add in the cocaine abuse or put that in the context of somebody who had a deceleration injury, and that points you in the direction of abruptio placenta. Now, as far as memorizing just abruptio placenta, I want you to remember AP. Abruptio placenta is AP. AP can mean it's abrupt and painful. It can mean that the patient is accident prone, which is a way to remember the deceleration injury. And let me go for an aside and pause for just a second. The deceleration injury creates such a force when that deceleration injury occurs that that is what causes the detachment. And then AP for abuse potential. Abuse potential should remind you that this is highly associated with cocaine use. So that's abruptio placenta AP. Now let's talk about placenta accreta spectrum. Again, that term, placenta accreta spectrum, encompasses all three of placenta accreta, placenta increta, and placenta percreta. Now, placenta accreta spectrum refers to abnormal placental attachment to the myometrium. This is due to a defective decidual layer, and I would memorize that because that is the pathophysiology that gets pretty buzzy on USMLE and COMLEX. The only difference between accreta, increta, and percreta is the extent to which this invades or doesn't the myometrium. And so if we look at the terminology here, accreta is attachment to the surface of the myometrium, but there's no penetration. In crita is attachment into the myometrium. And percreta, per means perforate. So this is when you have penetration through the myometrium. So really, placenta accreta spectrum, that tells you you're dealing with some type of abnormal attachment to the myometrium. The question is how far and how deep into the myometrium, if at all, are we? Accreta on surface, in crita, into myometrium, percreta, perforating myometrium. So if you can get those terms straightened out in your brain, you'll probably get all your points on test day for placenta accreta spectrum. Really, really briefly, risk factors for this, prior C-sections and placenta previa. And the symptoms here, all of these things, right, accreta, increta, and percreta, these can all cause postpartum bleeding, which of course can lead to Sheehan syndrome. Sheehan syndrome is very high yield for USMLE step one and COMLEX level one. That refers to postpartum pituitary necrosis, and that is specific to the anterior pituitary gland. So postpartum pituitary necrosis leading to anterior pituitary gland deficiencies and dysfunction, all because of postpartum bleeding or some extent of shock and hyper, hypovolemia. So Sheehan syndrome, very, very, very high yield. And that's associated with all of the placenta accreta spectrum, which again, for the fifth time, is to say accreta, increta, and percreta. Now let's switch gears and talk about placenta previa. Placenta previa, it refers to the placental covering of the internal cervical os. And the symptoms here is that it's painless third trimester bleeding. And the painless part is very, very important. As you might recall, from abruptio placenta, we said that that was painful third trimester bleeding. So abruptio placenta is painful. Placenta previa, painless. Both are third trimester. Now in the case of placenta previa, the bleeding tends to spontaneously stop within one to two hours. This isn't always the case in real life, but on your exam, if they want to go by the textbook definition and the textbook description, they'll give you painless third trimester bleeding that might spontaneously stop within a few hours. And this is really, really key because we'll differentiate that in just a second against abruptio placenta. Risk factors for placenta previa include prior uterine procedures. And those are things like C-sections or myomectomies, right? Basically anything that disrupts the uterine lining, that is going to be a major risk factor for placenta previa. Other risk factors include multiple gestations and previous episodes or diagnoses of placenta previa. Now I told you the key here is differentiating placenta previa from abruptio placenta because both of these presentations on your exam will be some type of third trimester bleeding. So again, in previa, think about P's. It's painless and it pauses, which is to say that it spontaneously stops within a few hours. Abruptio, think about A. Abruptio is aching, which is to say that it's painful. And it's active, which is to say that it doesn't stop. So previa is painless and pauses. Abruptio is aching and active. This will help you differentiate placenta previa from abruptio placenta. Both of those conditions will give you third trimester bleeding. It's going to be your job on your exam to figure out which one of these things you're dealing with. Let's conclude by talking about vasoprevia. Now, don't get this confused with placenta previa. Placenta previa, we're obviously talking about the placenta. Vasa, as the name implies, we're talking about fetal vessels. So in vasoprevia, it is the vessels that cover the internal cervical os. And the symptoms here, surprise, surprise, painless third trimester bleeding. So the symptoms, the presentation of vasoprevia is going to be very, very similar to placenta previa. So you're probably sitting there and you're like, dirty, dude, both of these previa things are, you're telling me they're painless. You're telling me they're third trimester bleeding. How the heck am I supposed to memorize this? Where the test writer will probably go with vasoprevia may be one of the pathophysiologies that lead to this. So what are the causes? There are two things that you need to know. One is called velomentous insertion. And one is called succenturiate or a bilobate placenta. Now, these sound complicated, but they're actually not. So let's explain what they are. In the case of velomentous insertion, and the more correct way to define this would be a velomentous cord insertion, what you're dealing with here is a part of the fetal cord that, of course, contains the fetal vessels is exposed and it's not protected. And that exposure occurs before connecting to the placenta. And as that exposure kind of wraps around the baby, it covers the internal cervical os. Of these two, right, of velomentous insertion and succenturiate bilobate placenta, the more important one to understand is velomentous insertion. And for that reason, I have a very nice image on the next slide that shows you exactly what this is. But just for completeness sake, let's talk about the slightly lower yield one, the succenturiate or the bilobate placenta. So this refers to when the placenta forms two or more lobes. And so what happens here is that the fetal vessels obviously need to supply blood to both of the lobes. And sometimes as those vessels split off and provide a supply to both of those lobes, they inadvertently cover the internal cervical os. And so when that happens, you have vasa previa, right, vessels preventing. I know that's not what the word actually means, but that's how it makes sense in my head. You have vessels preventing the internal cervical os or covering it. And the reason that it's covering it or that it's previa-ing it, for lack of a more scientific term, is that the vessels are supplying multiple lobes of a bilobate placenta. So bottom line here, if a placenta has multiple lobes, sometimes the vessels split off to supply blood to both lobes, and they accidentally cover the os. Vilamentous insertion is much higher yield. That's when a portion of the fetal cord and fetal vessels are exposed and they wrap around before connecting to the placenta and accidentally cover the os. So let me just show you an image of that just so you really, really understand. So forget about the middle picture here. Look at all the way on the left and all the way on the right. So all the way on the left, we have a normal umbilical cord insertion where the umbilical cord goes from baby and it inserts into the placenta. That light blue color is like a sort of sheathing or protection that wraps around the umbilical cord. When you look all the way on the right, you have velamentous cord insertion, and that is one of the major high yield causes of vasoprevia. So you can see that the cord goes from the baby and then you follow that light blue line. I'm looking all the way on the right image here. And then at some point you have exposed unprotected elements or fetal vessels. And those exposed vessels wrap around baby in the process covering the internal os as they move en route to the placenta. And this is why a velamentous cord can cause vasoprevia because those exposed unprotected blood vessels in the fetal cord are blocking the os. And that is how velamentous cord insertion causes vasoprevia. So that's really all I have for you. I know it's a lot of terms that sound interchangeable, that sound similar, that present with third trimester bleeding. If you know the ones that are painful and you know the ones that are painless, and you know what gets associated with the ones that are painless, and you understand how velamentous cord insertion can cause vasoprevia, you are in excellent shape for this topic. I hope that this was helpful. I know it was fast, but I like to keep things simple and concise. Good luck. Thank you.