 e So what that means is that there is a protein called a tuberculin protein that actually gets extracted from the pathogen mycobacterium tuberculosis. So they literally pull out this protein and then use it as a purified protein derivative. And that's why you see PPD. PPD just stands for purified protein derivative. So there are a couple steps in administering and interpreting this test. Again, if you're in medical school, PA school, NP school, and you just want to know about interpretation, you can skip ahead to step three. But step one is that you inject the purified protein derivative on the forearm approximately two to four inches below the elbow joint. You would use a 27 gauge needle. The bevel should be facing up. And your angle of injection is approximately five to 15 degrees. A pale wheel should be visible when the test is completed. And roughly that wheel should measure six to 10 millimeters. That's step one. Step two is easy. You wait 48 to 72 hours. So patient goes home and is instructed to come back for the interpretation step two to three days later. Now very, very important here. If the test is not read by that 72 hour mark, the results are unreliable and the test needs to be repeated. Step three, here's our interpretation. So if you've been watching this video, you're in medical school, this is all you care about. So when the test is performed, there's going to be two areas that show up on the skin. There's going to be induration, which is that central raised area. And then there is going to be a peripheral bordering area of erythema. What is very important for your exam, if you're taking USMLE or COMLEX, is that you must know that you measure the area of induration, not the area of erythema. Obviously, you look at this image here, and perhaps you've seen this in real life. If you measure the area of erythema, you're going to have an artificially inflated measurement. It's going to, in reality, be much smaller than that. So only measure the area of induration. And when it comes to actually measuring, you hold up a ruler and place the zero of that ruler on the left border of induration, and then measure from zero to the right border. This is how you measure. Now, depending on what that measurement is, you get certain results. Now, I would note for completeness sake here that an interesting little tidbit about the PPD test is that as the diameter cutoff increases, sensitivity declines and specificity increases. So in other words, the test has the highest sensitivity for a positivity cutoff of five millimeters when you're measuring that area of induration. Just a little aside there. But for purposes of USMLE and COMLEX, literally all you have to know is one, you're measuring induration, and two, you need to know this table. So depending on how big that area of induration is, there are three, really two, if you look at the chart, there are three cutoffs that you need to memorize. So an area of induration of greater than or equal to five millimeters would be a positive PPD test in certain patient populations. Likewise, the same would be true with that area of induration is greater than or equal to 10 millimeters. And then for everybody else with no risk factors for tuberculosis, induration of 15 or more would be considered a positive test. So the last one is obviously super easy to memorize. And therefore, for the purposes of USMLE and COMLEX, you just need to memorize what patient groups would be a positive at five and what patient groups would be a positive at 10. If you can do that, you'll get every single question correct. So let's take a look here. So the patient populations in what groups would a area of induration of five millimeters or more be considered positive? So that would be individuals who are infected with HIV, individuals who have had close contact with another patient with an active TB infection, evidence of TB on chest radiography. So you could see this written as either fibrotic or nodular, or they're going to put those words together sometimes saying fibronodular changes. If you see any of those terms, then five or more would be a positive. And then both organ transplant recipients and immunosuppressed patients. So the first group, obviously, because the measurement of the area of induration is the smallest, but yet still positive, these are going to be the most highly susceptible patient populations. And if you look at this, it kind of makes sense, right? HIV, organ transplant, and immunosuppressed patients. In my brain, that's one group. Those are highly susceptible immunosuppressed patients. And then evidence of TB, of prior TB on chest radiography or recent close contacts with an active TB infection, those are also high risk, highly susceptible due to the fact that you either have these prior signs on the x-ray, or you've had a recent contact with an active infection. So these are your highest risk, highest acuity group, and that's why it's five or more for the measurement. Now jumping down to 10, an area of induration of 10 millimeters or more is going to be in recent immigrants from high risk countries. And really what this means is countries where TB is endemic. Now, you're not going to get tested on numbers or statistics on USMLE or COMLEX, but in reality, the incidence of infection would be greater than 25 in 100,000 if you're curious about the number. IV drug abuse or injection drug users fall into this group. High risk employees or residents. So some type of occupational exposure. So if you, for example, work in healthcare, you've got a patient who works in healthcare, you have a patient who works in prisons, who works in homeless shelters, healthcare settings. And I put it below, but really we could have grouped it in here as well. Patients who work in mycobacteriology labs. So TB labs. Again, that's an occupational exposure. It could have fallen under that high risk employee sentence that I wrote out, but I just dropped it one down. But anybody who works in, you know, healthcare, prisons, homeless shelters, mycobacterium labs. So these are high risk settings. These individuals will be positive at 10 as opposed to 15. High risk chronic diseases. This is a big one. So people with diabetes, end stage renal disease, leukemia, etc. So these, these are chronic medical conditions that increase the risk of reactivation of TB. And therefore they have a cutoff that is slightly below the general population. Other things to look for in this category, just for completeness sake, ENT cancer. So cancers of the head, neck, also cancers of the lungs. Patients with malignancy. Patients with a history of silicosis. Patients who are on dialysis. If you're kind of just doing it broadly, you'll probably get this right. But anybody with a chronic medical condition that increases the risk of reactivation of tuberculosis is positive at 10 millimeters. And then the last one that I have written out here, children less than four years of age or children who are exposed to adults who fall into the high risk categories. So for the latter part of that sentence, I want to be clear that that could be, you know, newborns, infants, toddlers, children, adolescents, the age doesn't matter in the second part. So any kid, right? Any not adult who is exposed to an adult who falls into a high risk category or any children who is just less than four years old. Either of those categories would be positive at 10 millimeters. Now, the one that I didn't include here that I intended to and forgot to write it out, just for completeness sake, I'm going to verbalize it. Another patient population that would be positive at 10 or more milliliter, 10 or more millimeters, excuse me, is individuals who have a weight that's less than 90% of the ideal body weight. So people essentially who have a low body weight, those individuals are also positive at 10 or more millimeters. And then, like I said, the last category here, 15 or more millimeters, this is the easiest one. This is everybody else, i.e. this is people with no known risk factors for tuberculosis, healthy individuals, obviously older than four years of age since four or less would fall into a positive at 10. So healthy individuals, four or more years of age with no risk factors and a low likelihood of TB infection. So I know that sounds like a lot at first, but again, I want to go back to where I started on this chart. If you can memorize that your highest, highest, highest risk patient populations are positive at five plus, those are immunosuppressed, organ transplant, HIV positive, somebody with a contact to an active case of TB or has evidence of TB or prior TB on chest x-ray, right? All of those are way more susceptible, way more severe, way more acute than any of the other categories here. That's at five. And if you need a stupid way to memorize the high risk category where you have a positive at induration measuring five or more millimeters, I took words out of that category. And all of these words either have five total letters or five total letters plus symbols. So for example, the word chest has five letters that will remind you that in individuals who have signs on chest x-ray, right? Those fibronodular changes, that's positive at five because there's five letters in chest. The word organ has five letters. So patients who are organ transplant recipients are positive at five because organ has five letters. Immune o-suppressed patients, I-M-M-U-N, that is five letters. Close has five letters. So patients who had close contacts with other patients who have active TB. Close has five letters. So those patients are positive at five. And then lastly, HIV plus plus is five total letters plus symbols. I had to stretch this one a little bit. I apologize. But this is the stupid way to remember the most susceptible, highest acuity where you've got a positive at five millimeters or more. 10 is that middle category. You know, there's some risk factors there. For example, they work in a TV lab or they use IV drugs. Maybe they immigrated from a country or I should say emigrated from a country that where TB is endemic, right? There's risk there. Don't misunderstand me. But that risk is not as acute as the individuals who have the immunosuppressed status or the recent close contact. And then 15 or more is the easiest because that's everybody else. So if you can memorize this, you're in great shape. This does get tested. They'll give you the measurement or they'll give you the patient population and then ask which measurement would be positive. But these should be free test points on test day. So hopefully this makes sense. Good luck.