 in a severe T14-carnitix, hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi is said to have, quote, swarming motility on agar. And if you see swarming motility, that's a very big buzzword for proteus. Pathophysiology, there are really three. And the one that you see in red here, which I'll talk about last, is by far the highest yield and most important thing to know about proteus. First, it has a fimbriae. The fimbriae helps it attach to the urinary endothelium, which should make sense because proteus is associated with urinary tract infections. So obviously, its pathophysiological mechanisms are going to lend itself to more commonly causing urinary tract infections. It does have an endotoxin. And recall that these endotoxins tend to be found in the gram-negative bacterial cell wall. But most importantly, and what you absolutely need to know for USMLE and COMLEX, is that proteus is urease positive. It has urease. And what urease does is it alkanalizes the urine by hydrolyzing urea into ammonia plus carbon dioxide. And we'll talk more about this on the next slide in clinical features. But this is really what allows the bacteria to survive. So now let's talk clinical. So as I said, proteus is associated with urinary tract infections. Very, very high yield for your exams is to know that it is associated with staghorn calculi, also known as struvite kidney stones. So on your exam, you can see this written as staghorn, as struvite, or if they want to throw out the actual chemical composition, they'll simply say magnesium, ammonium phosphate, and calcium carbonate. All of these terms are interchangeable. They all mean the same thing. They're all referring to the same type of kidney stone. Now what's happening here is that the proteus is urease positive. And again, what that urease is doing is as the name implies, right? It has ace at the end of urea. It's breaking down essentially the urea and hydrolyzing it and splitting it into ammonia and carbon dioxide. So increased levels of ammonia and increased levels of carbon dioxide create an alkaline environment. And that elevated pH environment allows for the bacteria to survive and it allows for the formation of those struvite stones in the renal pelvis. So the fact that the bacteria can survive in this high pH environment and the fact that as the other pathophysiological findings that I showed you suggested, that it has fimbriae to attach to the urinary endothelium and have an endotoxin, it's surviving, it's producing toxin, it's attaching to endothelium, and then it's literally changing the environment in which it exists so that it can survive. And what this leads to is the formation not only of the urinary tract infection, but the struvite kidney stones in the renal pelvis. So on your exam, I want you to be comfortable with the image of what these look like. As you can see here, they're radiopaque. And that needs to be differentiated against other types of kidney stones which are radiolucent. So if you see this and you see the kidney stone filling that entire renal pelvis with this very characteristic staghorn shape, this is a staghorn or a struvite kidney stone. And you want to associate these with urease positive bacteria of which proteus is one. If you look at an image of the stone under a microscope, you want to know that it's coffin lid shaped. Very, very high yield to know this image. Coffin lid. There are various images of the different types of kidney stones that you could be shown on your exams. And what test writers like to do is either show you this microscopic image or show you this actual imaging of a CT or an x-ray and then ask you about the bacteria that's causing this or some type of finding such as urease positive or that sort of thing. So know these images because they could go at this backwards and show you this first, describe some symptoms to you, and then ask you which of the following would you expect to see? And the answer might be urease. So no coffin lid shaped and no radio opaque. Again, biggest takeaway from this is if it's filling the entire renal pelvis and it has that characteristic stag appearance to it, you're dealing with a struvite stone. Now, don't get this confused because there are other bacteria that also are urease positive that cause the same kidney stones. And those include Staph, Safferophiticus, and Klebsiella. So just keep that in mind. These are all going to cause these stones. Let's conclude by talking about treatment. Briefly, you want to use trimethoprim, sulfamethoxazole. You can also use ciprofloxacin, which is a fluoroquinolone. If you have the presence of the kidney stone, the answer is first going to be to treat the underlying infection and then if necessary, surgically remove the kidney stone. That's Proteus. That's everything that you need to know.