 Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate Ultimate give you that. So in your exam, the way that you're going to get this right is if you can identify buzzwords and identify the picture when they show you the back of somebody's eye. So the way that I think you can simplify this is let's break it down and get back to basics. If you understand pathophysiology, this makes perfect sense. One of these has artery in the name. One of these has vein in the name. Artery brings the blood to something and the vein takes it away. So if we block the artery, blood cannot get to the retina. If we block the vein, blood can't get out of the retina. And if we keep it that stupid and that simple, this all makes perfect sense. So in other words, a retinal artery occlusion where your artery is blocked, therefore blood can't get to something, that's a supply problem. A retinal vein occlusion, meaning that the blood cannot drain out of the eye, that's a drainage problem. So let's pause for a second. And I've got a really silly picture here at the bottom of the slide. If blood can't get in, what physical findings would you expect to see? And if blood can't get out, what physical findings would you expect to see? So taking that one step further, in the artery occlusion, you see a pale fundus with a cherry red spot. In the vein occlusion, you see hemorrhage and edema. Now this should make sense to you. When we look at hemorrhage and edema, if blood is pooling into the eye and can't get out through the retinal vein, there will be hemorrhage and there will be edema, specifically of the optic disc. And if we think about the pale fundus with a cherry red spot, because this is a supply problem, part of the eye is ischemic. If you can't get blood to part of the eye, it will appear pale. And that should make sense to you. Now as far as the cherry red spot goes, here's what you want to look for. You see the black arrow here pointing to the cherry red spot. And something that is important to understand here is that you see the reason that the cherry red spot is cherry red at the center, but then pale around it is because the fovea will stay red. And the reason that the fovea stays red is that it gets its blood supply from the posterior ciliary arteries. It does not get its blood supply from the central retinal artery. So basically anything that is supplied from the central retinal artery will become pale because it's ischemic. But anything that is supplied from the posterior ciliary arteries will appear well perfused because we don't have the blockage there. Again, in a retinal artery occlusion, the occlusion is in the retinal artery or the central retinal artery. And this is why the fovea will be a nice dark red color, but the surrounding tissue will be pale. Now let's contrast that to what you see in a retinal vein occlusion. So in a retinal vein occlusion, you're looking for optic disc edema. So the optic disc would swell and retinal hemorrhage. And you can see, I hope you can appreciate the very stark contrast between these two pictures. One is showing you hemorrhage and some swelling. The other shows you that cherry red spot with the pale fundus. And again, if you think about this as artery occlusion equals supply problem, it's ischemic, and vein equals drainage problem, it's buildup and swelling and hemorrhage, this really should make sense to you. Now on your exam, they're going to show you one of these pictures like 90% of the time. They want you to be to pick out the cherry red spot. They want you to pick out the hemorrhage. And this is kind of basic. So you really should commit this to memory. But if you're looking at causes here, the retinal artery occlusion typically is due to some type of thromboembolic event. And the retinal vein occlusion is typically due to a compressive effect of nearby central retinal arteries having atherosclerosis. So interestingly, in the retinal vein occlusion, it is truly that a nearby artery becomes atherosclerotic, and then that pushes up against the retinal vein, which prevents the retinal vein from draining properly, hence the hemorrhage, hence the edema. But in the retinal artery occlusion, the problem is inherent to whatever thromboembolic event takes place that occludes the actual central retinal artery itself. And that's really important to understand. So I've gone through this video, and so far I would say that I've covered much of what you probably need to know for the purposes of your exam. Again, you want to be able to identify these pictures and know that the buzzwords pale fundus, cherry red spot equals artery occlusion, retinal hemorrhage, and optic disc edema equals vein occlusion. But if you need a way to memorize this and pair these together, I always think about artery is red and vein is blue. That's just how it is in my head, probably from years of studying this way. So the way that I memorize this is when I think about a pale fundus with a cherry red spot, pale to me, pale is like a bucket. So I think about a bucket or a pale filled with cherries. And then I associate pale fundus, cherry red spot with red, you know, red cherries, that's the central artery and everything else by process of elimination would be a retinal vein. So this was quick, really to the point, but I want you to understand if you're blocking the artery, blood can't get in, that's a supply problem. So you're looking for ischemic symptoms. If the vein is occluded, blood can't get out. That's a drainage problem. You're looking for hemorrhage and edema type symptoms. If you can keep that straight, then when you look at these images, you can kind of guess based on which blood vessel looks more engorged versus which one looks more like a cherry. So there you go. Good luck.