 In this video, I'll talk briefly about rhabdomyolysis. In this video, I'll talk briefly about rhabdomyolysis. In this video, I'll talk briefly about rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdomyolysis is actually a fairly simple concept, but on USMLE and COMLEX, it allows test writers to write really confusing third order questions, because as you'll see in a few moments here, it connects to so many different organ systems. And for that reason, you start reading a question, it sounds like the question is going to be about some unrelated topic, and then they twist it into a patient who has rhabdo, rhabdo, maybe they say it, maybe they don't, and then you have to answer a question about rhabdo. So let's talk about rhabdomyolysis. This is a really important topic, shows up all the time, quite high yield. Rhabdomyolysis refers to a state of muscle injury. Essentially what's happening here is that the muscle is injured and the muscle cell essentially breaks open and it spills out or leaks all of the intracellular components that were previously contained in that muscle cell. Now when this happens, all of that leakage of intracellular components has consequences for various organ systems. Now here's what I was just alluding to a moment ago. There are so many different etiologies of rhabdomyolysis that you could be sitting for step one or level one and you're answering a question that sounds like at first glance that it has nothing to do with rhabdo, but then it gets twisted into a really confusing third order question. So some of the key and most common etiologies are traumatic rhabdomyolysis. So this would be something like a crush injury. So maybe somebody is playing some type of sport or they're driving a car and they're in a motor vehicle accident and their muscle gets crushed. Well, obviously when the muscle gets crushed, it breaks open, leaks out its intracellular components. Medication induced, this is a big one. So people who take things like statins or antipsychotics, these can cause rhabdomyolysis. There are infections that cause it. It can be congenital in the case of your muscular dystrophies. It can be autoimmune for myositis and it can be drug induced. So anytime somebody does any type of stimulant drug and occasionally a hallucinogen drug, it can cause rhabdo as an unintended consequence. I already talked about drug induced in the sense that it could be medication induced, meaning that somebody is on a prescribed medication like a statin or an antipsychotic. And then what commonly shows up on exams and what is perhaps more common in real life is exercise induced. So on your exam, what this might look like is some young, otherwise healthy athlete does, for example, a triathlon. And then all of a sudden they're in severe rhabdo. And when you're taking the question, it can be confusing at first because there's no past medical history. The person is in excellent shape. Their BMI is beautiful. You know, they look like a Greek God, but they're in rhabdo because they just ran 20 miles, whatever it is, something that I'm incapable of doing myself. So these are some of your key etiologies, things to keep in mind, because when you start to get a question and it sounds like they're giving you a question about somebody who does, for example, PCP or cocaine, and then all of a sudden the patient's in kidney failure and they're asking you for mechanisms and what you're going to expect on labs. You know, they're essentially what the test writer is doing is taking some unrelated etiology and twisting it into a challenging third order question. So let's break down the pathophysiology here. It's actually not very complex. And depending on the resource that you read or how your in-class professor explained this, it tends to be over complicated. So let's just make this stupid and simple because that's my motto. So you have a muscle injury like we talked about, right? It can be direct. It can be crushed, right? The muscle is injured directly because someone punched you in the arm or beat you over the head with a golf club. Or it could be because you were abusing drugs. But the end result is the same. The muscle is injured. And the image you see on the slide here is an actual photo of my arm because I'm super jacked. And then you get intracellular leakage of the components in that muscle cell, right? So for just to keep it stupid and simple, muscle is injured, muscle cell breaks open, things spill out. What spills out? The key things that spill out are heme, myoglobin, potassium, and lactate or lactic acid. If you can memorize and understand these four components, it makes understanding what a presentation of rhabdo looks like so much easier. Now underneath each of these components, I put in blue the clinical syndrome that manifests as a result of that component. So in the case of heme, you get disseminated intravascular coagulation, also known as DIC. In the case of myoglobin, you can get things related to the kidney because that myoglobin has to be processed by the kidney. So AKI or acute kidney injury, acute tubular necrosis, and something called pigment nephropathy. So classically, the way that these patients will present is with dark urine. And that's because of myoglobin going through the kidney and it is pigmented. Potassium, that's a big one. So the potassium is in the cell, the cell breaks open, potassium spills out. Now you have hyperkalemia. And hyperkalemia on your exam should ring alarm bells in your head that the patient might present with cardiac symptoms because too high of a potassium level causes cardiac arrhythmia. And then lastly, your lactate, your lactic acid, this is going to cause a metabolic acidosis. So it's causing inflammation and a metabolic acidosis. So as you can see by just looking at this slide, the fact that a muscle cell breaks open and spills a bunch of crap causes lots of different syndromes, lots of different lab abnormalities. So I want you to be able to process this. So here's what you're going to see on your exam. If you're taking USMLE or Comlex, this is what they will give you. Potassium levels will be elevated. Phosphate levels will be elevated. Creatine kinase or CK will be elevated. And this really is the key lab for rhabdomyolysis. So on your exam, that CK level is going to be markedly elevated. You know, some of these other labs might be a little high, might be normal because it's sort of a delayed pathophysiology. But if they want, if the test writer wants your brain to identify rhabdo, they're going to give you a screaming high CK level. And that's really going to be your cue that there's muscle injury here. Your BUN and creatinine will be elevated again because everything is happening and it needs to be processed by the kidney, we have kidney injury. Lactate dehydrogenase is going to be elevated. This is a marker of inflammation. You're just going to see it on your labs. Myoglobin, as I said, will be elevated. Calcium. Now this is a little bit of a confusing one and people get this mixed up all the time because depending on what stage in rhabdo you're in, calcium can actually be either decreased or elevated. And so what happens initially is that that calcium level is actually low. And what, I don't want to overcomplicate it, but basically what happens is when a muscle cell is damaged, there's actually an initial influx of calcium into that damaged muscle cell. So initially if you draw labs, that calcium level will appear low. However, later on in the latter stages of rhabdo, calcium levels actually spike and that is because the calcium that was going into the muscle cell later comes out of it and becomes mobilized. So I don't want you to get confused about that. I would say that on your exam on USMLE and COMLEX, worry about calcium last because it's not going to really point you in the direction of a diagnosis per se. Focus really on the creatine kinase, the BUN creatinine, the potassium, the phosphate, and the lactate dehydrogenase. Those are going to be your big ones. Now as far as exam findings and clinical findings, the way that this is going to be given to you on your exam is they're going to give you, if they're really nice, they'll give you the EKG, which will show peaked T waves. And it's very much a buzzy word for hyperkalemia. They could give you urine studies as well, which would show the pigmented granular cast, but they don't have to give you these things. They can just show you labs and describe general symptomatology with a markedly elevated CK and a clinical history suggestive of some type of muscle injury or risk factor for muscle breakdown. Now, classically, the patients will present with a triad of myalgia or muscle weakness, weakness, and dark urine. And this is not always the case in lots of patients who actually genuinely have rhabdomyolysis. But again, on USMLE and COMLEX, the question is not supposed to be controversial. It's not supposed to be confusing for you at the stage of your career that you're in. And therefore, the test writer will generally give you symptoms that are pretty consistent with rhabdo. And so I would expect that they'll describe this to you clinically. Again, they'll give you myalgia, weakness, and then dark urine, which is due to that myoglobin. Patients can have other nonspecific symptoms. Sometimes they'll give you altered mental status. Sometimes they'll give you low-grade temperature, some nausea, some vomiting. But again, that's so generalized and nonspecific that you really want to focus on the myalgia, the dark urine, and the labs. Now, treatment here is really simple. Aggressive fluid resuscitation. That's always going to be the answer. And in the case, rarely, of kidney failure as a result of rhabdo, which I don't expect you would see on your exam, but hey, it could show up. In that case, you would be looking at something like dialysis. But immediately, in the beginning, you want to use crystalloid solutions, aggressive, normal saline, etc. Now, the last thing I want to mention for rhabdo is that on exams, especially if we're talking step two, level two, and higher, they like to go after a complication of rhabdo. And the complication that you want to know is compartment syndrome. Now, with compartment syndrome, it's very complex. And I don't think you need to know the pathophysiology here. But basically, what happens is that there are changes in the intracellular components of the damaged muscle. And so, you kind of get like a reperfusion injury, essentially, where the muscle that's injured is initially deprived of perfusion. And then, in that process of reperfusing that area, you inadvertently lead to a compartment syndrome. And so, it's really high yield on the more clinical levels and more clinical steps to know that if they give you a patient with rhabdo, this is a complication that you want to be on the lookout for. That's compartment syndrome. So, that's it. I know I went through that quickly. What I want you to take away from this and appreciate from this video is that rhabdo itself is not very complex, right? Muscles injured, muscle spills crap out, crap causes other clinical symptoms. But what I want your brain to recognize in terms of pattern recognition and doing well on your exam is that something that sounds like at first it has absolutely nothing to do with rhabdomyolysis ends up being a question having to do with rhabdomyolysis, again, because the etiology of rhabdo is so heterogeneous. It could be an otherwise healthy athlete doing a triathlon. It could be someone with a long history of chronic substance abuse using drugs. It can be an elderly frail patient who was just increased on a dose of statin and now has rhabdo. And now you're suddenly having to juggle all of that information, interpret labs, and understand that this is rhabdomyolysis. So, I hope that you can appreciate that. And I hope that this video was helpful to you. Best of luck.