For whatever reason, lecturers come in, neurologists come in. Sometimes they're not even neurologists that teach this subject, honestly, which is a huge disservice. But anyway, these these people come in and they spend so much time talking about the connections and the synapses and what neuron projects to where and which is contrateral and ipsolateral and it it just gets so overwhelming and they miss the point. So, I'm going to start with a lot of background as far as what I think you should know for boards. This will not be all-incclusive. I'm not going to touch on the nitty-gritty of every single pathway. No, no, no. I'm going to talk about the high yield facts, what each of these pathways do, and how they are manifested clinically and how they can be tested on boards. So, with that said, we're going to focus on three spinal cord pathways. The posterior column, which controls discriminative touch or fine touch and propriception, the corticospinal tract, which is really our our upper motor neurons. So these are the motor neurons that descend from the motor cortex in the brain and control our movement and allow us to kind of fine-tune movement. And then we're going to finish up with the lateral spinoamic tract which is responsible for temperature and pain sensation. At the very end of the video we'll talk about something called brown sicard syndrome which is a really high uh topic that they love to go after on boards and it you have to understand how these spinal cord pathways work in order to get the question right and understand brownard syndrome. So, this is usually what people see in first aid. They see this crazy looking uh slice of a spinal cord with all these different tracks. They start to get nauseous because they have to know what track goes where, what controls what, which side it's on. Is it upper neuron? Is it lower motor neuron? Is it, you know, sensory? Whatever. It sucks, guys. So, let's just take a step back and kind of dive into each of these tracks individually and we'll get through this really quickly and in a high yield fashion. So, we're going to start with the posterior columns. And the posterior column pathway looks like this. And don't freak out because it's really not that bad. We're going to go through this. So, first, what does the posterior column spinal tract pathway do? Well, it controls your fine touch and propriception. And they have a um a descriptive term for this, and it is discriminative touch. So, discriminative touch is our fine touch and propriception. In this pathway, there are three synapses. And the synapses you can see in the diagram on the right side of this slide, but I'm going to list them for you. The sensory neuron, you know, somewhere in like your fingertips or in your toes, wherever it is, will sense the signal and send the signal up to the dorsal column nuclei. And you see that here in the slice of the medulla in the center of the picture. The first synapse occurs between the sensory neuron that projects up and goes to the dorsal column nuclei. That dorsom column nuclei will decisate at the medial limniscus and then project upward to the phalamus. Remember that the phalamus is sort of our sensory integration center of the brain. So it makes sense that sensory signals are being inputed from the periphery up and they make their way to the phalamus. Once at the phalamus, we send that neuron, the the third and final syninnapse to the primary sensory cortex, which is the cortical center of the brain responsible for processing all incoming sensory information. So in review so far, posterior columns do discriminative touch. There are three synapses, sensory neuron to dorsal column, dorsal column to phalamus, and phalamus to primary sensory cortex. Not too bad, right? Well, how do we remember this? Because isn't that what this channel is about? giving you guys a pneumonic to understand this you know physiologically but then take that a step further and be able to instantly get the point right on USML or complex. So the posterior columns are the PC PC for politically correct. So posterior columns PC PC is politically correct and remember our synapses are sensory neuron to dorsal column to phalamus to primary sensory cortex. So S dtp and if you are politically correct we want to say the pneumonic is some doctors think politically sdtp some doctors think politically. So posterior columns PC politically correct some doctors think politically S for sensory D for dorsal T for phalamus P for primary sensory cortex. So that is our posterior columns. Some doctors think politically. And this makes sense right? The problem that you'll have if your posterior column does not work is that you'll have problems with discrimination. Right? And if you're politically correct, you don't discriminate. So, isn't that beautiful how the pneumonic ties into exactly what the posterior column does? If you have a problem with your posterior columns, you're going to have problems with discrimination. And remember that our posterior columns, our PC, our politically correct, our posterior columns are responsible for discriminative touch. And that's why problems with discrimination if you don't think politically, if you don't SDTP, if your posterior columns do not work. So that's the posterior column. We're already done one of the three major spinal uh spinal tracts that you need to know. Moving on, we're going to talk about the corticospinal tract. So the corticospinal tract is basically our upper motor neuron, right? It is the control that descends down from the primary motor cortex, makes its way all the way to our muscles in the periphery and controls what we do and how we move. So the cortical spinal tract is our upper motor neuron. You see on the right a diagram again don't get overwhelmed guys. I'm going to simplify this. This is our upper motor neuron. And how this works is such. So you have the primary motor cortex which descends down through the internal capsule through the you well it is the upper motor neuron but through the upper motor neuron down through the meillary pyramids and at the medularary pyramid something really interesting happens. The corticospinal tract will split into an anterior cortical spinal tract shown there as ACST and into a lateral cortical spinal tract shown as LCST. And for for the purposes of USML and complex, you really don't need to know that. I've included it for completeness sake because the LCST, right, that lateral corticospinal tract, that's 75 to 90% of all of the upper motor neurons in the body. And then those two corticospinal tracts or you can think of it as just the lateral if it's easier. They will descend down, go into the actual slice of the spinal uh spinal cord that controls a certain muscle. In this diagram, it looks like it's the bicep. and then it projects into the bicep to actually control the movement. So that is the cortical spinal tract and again I told you that all you really need to focus on for the purposes of USML and complex is the lateral cortical spinal tract because that's really 90% of these neurons. Once the neurons descend into the lateral cortical spinal tract, they synapse at the anterior horn. And this is really important because the LCST shown there in red is the upper motor neuron. But the anterior horn shown there in blue on the left side of our slide here is the lower motor neuron. And I'm going to assume that you know the difference between upper and lower motor neurons. And if you do need a refresher in that topic, I do have a video already created. Go search our our inventory of videos and learn about the differences. But it's really important in terms of the the type of pathology that you'll see if you have a lesion. So if you leion the cortical spinal tract, you'll get upper motor neuron signs. But if you lesion the anterior horn which connects with the corticospinal tract, you'll get lower motor neuron signs. So go review that if you need to. But this is the simplified corticospinal tract. And how do we remember this? Well, here is the pneumonic. So you want to remember PP LM primary motor goes to medularary pyramids goes to lateral corticospinal tract which controls movement. So when I think of the corticospinal tract I think of the corticospinal tract and then I ask myself what has spines? Well cactuses have spines and cactuses that have spines which reminds me of corticospinal tract are prickly plants and prickly plants lack moisture. So you know that cactuses live in deserts and they are prickly plants because they have spines which reminds us of cortico spinal tract and prickly plants lack moisture ppl primary motor pyramids LCST movement. I mean could the pneumonic get any more beautiful than that? Well, it can. If you look in this picture, our cactus is actually splitting. And I've drawn two yellow arrows on top of the cactus. And what this represents is the splitting at the meillary pyramids. Remember that the meillary pyramids split the cortical spinal tract into the anterior CST and the lateral CST. And I just put that in here so that you remember that the corticospinal tract technically does split. But the really important thing here in this pneumonic is that prickly plants lack moisture. PLM. It will help you remember what the corticpinal tract is. And if you can remember the PPLM, you'll remember that this is our upper motor neuron that controls movement. It splits at the pyramids as shown by these yellow arrows. And why do prickly plants like moisture? Well, they live in deserts and they have spines for corticospinal tract. So that is our corticpinal tract. We are now two out of three tracks done. Let's talk about the last one. This is the lateral spinoamic tract. And the lateral spinoalamic tract has historically given students the most headaches. And I'm going to explain why. So the lateral spinoamic tract shown here on the right is responsible for pain and temperature sensation but two to three segments below the level that gets injured. And you'll understand what I mean when I talk about brown sicard syndrome. But the important thing to remember here is that it's going to manifest two to three segments below the level of the injury on the contrlateral side. With that in mind, I want to pause for one second and talk about a super super high yield point that we need to talk about. The two tracks that I already talked about before the lateral spinoamic tract, right? We talked about the cortical spinal tract and the posterior columns. Both of those tracks are are ipsilateral. So if you injure them, the the deficit that they that they kind of lead to is going to be experienced on the same side of as the injury. But if you contrast that with the lateral spinoamic tract, if we injure the lateral spinoamic tract, where the symptoms are felt on the body is on the contrlateral side, two to three segments below the level of the injury. And again, this will all make sense in just a few more slides, but let's do an example to really hammer this home. So the reason that you experience this the deficit which is pain and temperature sensation. The reason that you experience that deficit two to three segments below the level of the injury on the contrlateral or opposite side is due to something called Lauaris track. And lauis track is really just a track of neurons that carries the lateral spinal neurons up two to three segments before they cross over and really um connect back into the syninnapse that leads back up to the primary somatensory cortex. So here's an example to to illustrate this. Let's say that we have an injury to C5 um in the lateral spinalamic tract on the right where you experience problems with the LST is 2 to three segments below which is C7 because we're two to three segments below C5 but on the contrlateral side so because the injury was C5 right we experience the symptoms C7 left that's two to three segments below on the opposite side. So that's the lateral spinoamic tract. And again just to really hammer this home for posterior columns and for cortico spinal tract it is ipsilateral which means same side on the exact same segment. So if we were doing this example C5 and we injured all of the tracks even though lateral spinalamic tract is two to three segments below opposite side the posterior column uh manifestation of symptoms and the cortical spinal tract manifestation of symptoms would be at C5 on the right because it's same level same side and then of course everything below it lateral spinal tract is two to three segments below opposite side and everything below that the how so how do we remember lateral spinalic tract um causing pain and temperature problems two to three segments below. Well, lateral spinal tract is LST which stands for lower segment three. Literally lower segment three LST two to three segments below the injury on the opposite side lower segment and then by three. So, if that confused you a little bit, I'm going to bring it all together now while we talk about something called brown sicard syndrome. So, I showed you at the very beginning of this presentation, this is a cut of our spinal cord. And you see all of these tracks going up to the brain. And what happens if we do something like this? We knock out literally one half of our spinal cord. This is called a hemisection of the spinal cord. And when we do this, we knock out all three of the spinal cord pathways that we've talked about, right? We knock out the lateral spinal tract, we knock out the posterior columns, and we knock out the cortical spinal tract. So, we're going to have symptoms that coincide with problems with all three of these tracks. So, we need to do an example to illustrate how this is going to be presented to you on boards and how you solve these problems. So here is our man that is going to be injured um at the level shown there in with that thick black line. So just for example sake here, let's say that our man uh gets injured. He has a stabbing injury on the right side of his spinal cord at the level of T8. So that black line roughly at the level of T8 to his right. So this the knife comes into his back and it completely hemranssects the spinal cord instantly severing connections from the cortical spinal tract the posterior column and the lateral spinoalamic tract. Those are the three spinal cord pathways that are the highest yield that you need to know. When this happens when you hemisect all three at once you get something called brown sicard syndrome. And brown sicard syndrome always has the same presentation. So let's talk about what the presentation is and then relate it to these three tracks so we understand it. So let's first label our three tracks that are going to be affected here. So we have the cortical spinal tract which I told you are the upper motor neurons. The posterior column is responsible for discriminative touch and the lateral spinalic tract is responsible for pain and temperature sensation. So how do I know that the LST is responsible for that opposite that contrlateral area shown in green and posterior columns and corticospinal tracts are shown there on ipssolateral. Well remember guys both the corticospinal tract and the posterior column are ipspsilateral pathways. If you knock them out the symptoms are experienced on the same side as the injury. So since this guy is being injured out on the right, everything ipsilaterally will be for cortical spinal tract and posterior column. LST stood for lower segment three. So two to three segments below T8, which is roughly at T10 or T11 on the contrlateral side, you get problems with pain and temperature. And that's how I know that the LST is what's going to be experienced there in green. So, if we label what these tracks do, the cortical spinal tract is our upper motor neuron symptoms, right? And again, if you need help remembering what that is, see our other video on upper versus motor, excuse me, upper versus lower motor neuron symptoms. But we're going to get upper motor neuron symptoms uh at everything below T8 because the injury is at T8. So, the spinal cord is being knocked out at T8. So, everything below T8, so T9 and down, is going to experience upper motor neuron symptoms. As far as the posterior columns are concerned, well, they are responsible for discriminative touch. Remember, posterior column PC politically correct problems with discrimination. So, discriminative touch, loss of fine touch, loss of propriception, that's going to be experienced at everything from the level of the injury and down, but on the ipssolateral or same side. Again, just to really hammer this home, lateral spinal tract, LST, lower segment three. We drop down two to three segments go to the opposite side and that is where we have pain and temperature problems. So this will be starting around T10 on the left. So if they're giving this to you on USML or complex how this will work they will tell you that a patient suffers some type of injury. They might tell you that the spinal cord is hemtitransected if they're being really generous but they don't have to. What they'll do is they'll give you the findings. So they'll say patient has loss of pain and temperature sensation at the level of T10 on the left. patient has blah blah blah. They'll describe upper motor neuron symptoms at everything from T8 down. They'll tell you that the patient, you know, um has decreased pin prick sensation, which is a way of saying that they have decreased discriminative uh sensation at the level of, you know, T8 and down. And you need to put these findings together and figure out where the injury is because the question can either ask you, you know, at what level was the spinal cord hected or maybe they'll give you the cortical spinal and posterior column findings and then say at what level will you experience pain and temperature problems? So you need to go two to three segments down contrlateral side. And as you can as you guys can probably see here, it kind of turns into um sort of like a math problem. You got to figure out where the injury is and then where your corresponding symptoms are. But in review, these are the three highest yield spinal cord pathways. Corticospinal, which is upper motor neuron, posterior column, which is discriminative touch and discriminative sensation because remember PC posterior column politically correct, don't discriminate. And then lateral spinalic tract is pain and temperature, but three segments down on the opposite side because LST lower segment three. So I really hope that this was helpful for you guys and that was extremely high yield. So I do wish you the best of luck.