this this exhaustive list of therapeutic antibodies. This is a pretty overwhelming topic for most medical students because if you look at this list, there's really no good way to learn what each of these things does, especially considering that they all sound so similar because they all end with m or um or immab. And really, all you have to differentiate these is the beginning of the word. So when I was learning these back in the day, I had to develop some system to come up with pneumonics to remember what these therapeutic antibodies targeted and what diseases they were used to treat. And that's the focus of today's video. So before I get into this, let me put a little disclaimer out there. This is not going to be a very physiology heavy video. Instead, I'm simply going to roll through this list and give you pneumonics to remember what each of these drugs targets. And hopefully that pneumonic is enough for you on test day to get your free points. Now, this is a topic that I don't really think you should put a lot of time into memorizing. I I I do believe that if you simply know the pneumonic and you know which target each of these drugs hits and by extension which disease they treat, that's all you need to know. Nothing more, nothing less. So with that in mind, let's get started. We're just going to work our way down this list. So our first drug is Alamtusmab. Now Altusmab targets CD52. The way that you should remember this is to look at the 52 in CD52. And that always reminded me of a deck of cards because there's 52 cards in a deck of playing cards. And that sort of took me to where the pneummonic goes in that when you're playing cards, you want to drink ale. Ae for ale mtusmab and playing cards because cd 52 and there's 52 cards in a deck of playing cards. So this is very simple. If you see a limtusmab, you should think, oh, drinking ale while playing cards. 52 cards in a deck. So almusab targets CD52. Done. Our first therapeutic antibbody easy to memorize because we've got ale mtusmab and you want to drink ale when you play cards and there are 52 cards in a playing in a card deck. So that's alm2tusmab. The next therapeutic antibbody is bevakismab and the target here is veg f gf veg f. And the way that I always remembered this was to use veg f to think about vegetables. And if you look at the name of the drug, be vacazuzumab, that kind of sounds like vacuum. So I always thought of vacuum-acked vegetables. You know, some people will put their vegetables in these little plastic vacuum packs and and have this like vacuum machine suck all the air out so that they can stay frozen in the freezer for a really long period of time. So again, easy, right? Bevakismab sounds like B vacuumab and vacuum vegetables for veg f. So vacuum packing your vegetables. So two drugs down. Altusmab, you want to drink ale when you play cards. Cards because there's 52 cards in a deck. And almusab targets CD52. Bevakisumab sounds like vacuumab. And we vacuum pack our vegetables. So bevacumab targets veg F. So easy, right? Let's keep this rolling. Next one is satuximab. And satuximab targets eGFR. Now unfortunately for satuximab the pneummonic is a little bit more uh difficult to remember relative to all the other ones but nonetheless it's pretty easy. You just look at the first three letters of the name set oximab. So C for colon cancer, E for eGFR and T for throat cancer. So the C the E and the T the first three letters or the prefix in satuximab tell you what you should remember. The E in set tells you that this targets eGFR. The C tells you that it targets is used to treat colon cancer and the T for throat cancer which is sort of my way of saying head and neck cancer. So head neck colon cancer is what satuximab treats and it specifically targets eGFR. So three down, some more to go. Satuxmab required a little bit of thinking but Almuzismab and Bevakismab were pretty easy to memorize. So, so far you're going to get free points on all of these questions if they come up on test day. The next drug drug is rettoximab and rtoxmab targets CD20 and it's specifically used in NHL which is nonh hotkins lymphoma. Okay, so this is rtoxmab targeting CD20 and it's used in non-hotchkins lymphoma also known as NHL. Now, in order to get this pneumonic, you do have to be a little bit of either a sports fan or a gamer. But I always remember this by saying NHL 20, like the video game NHL 20. And on the cover of NHL 20, you see someone who is a superstar hockey player known as Austin Matthews. And Austin Matthews constantly wears tuxedos, shown on the right side of the slide, when he accepts all of his player awards every year at the NHL Player Awards. So, what's the pneumonic here? called Tux in retimab for him wearing his tuxedo. And you remember this player wearing his tuxedo because he is a superstar player and that's why he's on the cover of NHL 20. And NHL 20 reminds you of non-Hodkins lymphoma and CD20. So if you can sort of keep all this information packaged into a little box in your brain, you'll never forget this. And I do promise that this pneumonic works. Rettoximab NHL 20 NHL for non-hotchkins lymphoma 20 for CD20 and Tux in Rtoximab for the superstar athlete who's on the cover of this game wearing a tuxedo at the awards ceremonies. So we've done four so far and at least three of them are just stupidly easy to remember. Let's keep this rolling because we're going to get all these free points on USML and complex. The next therapeutic antibody is trstusmab and trstusmab targets her too. Now a lot of people know that trstusmab targets her too and that it's used in breast cancer because it's one of the more high yield drugs in this list that commonly comes up in things like first aid and other review textbooks. But just in case you really want to go the extra mile and you love dirty USML you just you want another beautiful pneumonic troumab. Hello. How easy is that? And the other thing that you can say is having a loved one with breast cancer will hurt you. Hurt you for her too. Her two hurt you. See what I did there? So, Tres 2 Zimab and breast cancer in your family, your loved ones will hurt you or her too. So, that's Tres 2AB. Stupidly easy to remember just like the rest of them. We're almost halfway through this list. So, let's just keep this going because we are really gaining momentum here. The next therapeutic antibbody is Infiximab. And infleximab targets TNF alpha which if you've studied immunology at this point you should know as one of the mediators or the cytoines if you will that mediates inflammation. So it's this drug that therapeutically targeting something that modulates inflammation to exert its therapeutic effect when it's used to treat disease. And the way that you should think about this is that TNF alpha is so important in inflammation that when it's modulating inflammation, it's inflicting damage on the body. So the pneumonic here is that TNF alpha inflicts damage. TNF alpha inflicts damage during inflammation. So inflammab you should think about inflicting damage during inflammation. And of all of the therapeutic targets of all of these therapeutic antibodies, this is the only one that targets TNF alpha. So very easy to remember that's inflammab. Our next therapeutic antibbody is declammab. Now declmab targets CD25. And a lot of people have a hard time with declusimab. Generally speaking, and I should have pointed this out earlier in the video, but generally speaking, people have a hard time memorizing the different therapeutic antibodies that target different CD whatever the number is. So like CD52, CD25, CD20, etc., etc. There's a lot of different ones. So you really have to come up with a way to pair the number like CD25 with the drug like declmab. So my pneummonic here is to focus on the number 25 in CD25 and DAC in declmab. So what I say here, and I'm sorry, but once again, you do need to be a sports fan, is I think about Barry Bonds. Barry Bonds is arguably one of the greatest baseball players, if not the greatest of all time. And he wore number 25. And what he would do is hit home runs into the upper deck. Deck for deck lusmab. Daklusab, the upper deck in baseball. So number 25 would hit a monster smash or a home run into the upper deck. Dak for declusab. Now the reason that in this pneumonic I said monster smash is because this is used in multiple sclerosis or MS. So if you can memorize that number 25 hit a monster smash into the upper deck monster smash for MS then all of this information gets packaged so beautifully into your brain and it's just really really easy to remember. So Dak Kusamab Dak for the upper deck CD25 because who hits upper deck home runs? Number 25 Barry Bonds and it's they're monster smashes for MS. So that's Dismab. We're now halfway through this list. Most of these I think are really easy to remember. So when they come up on test day, you're going to get the free point because they're going to either give you the target and ask you the drug name or give you the drug and ask you the target or give you the drug and ask you the disease. But you know all of that information in these pneumonics that I'm giving you today. Let's keep it rolling. Echolymab is our next uh therapeutic antibody and the target of echulysmab is the C5 complement protein. Now specifically this gets used in P&H also known as paroxismal nocturnal hemoglobinura. So the way that I remember this is by thinking about the C5 and C5 complement protein. Now, if you're a fan of cars, you probably know that Corvette makes a C5. It's a pretty sexy vehicle, if I may say so myself. And my pneumonic to remember this is to think about the C5 Corvette. Whenever you drive your C5, you get compliments, you know, cuz it's it's it's a cool car. A cool or e cool for ecoolismab. And it's a pretty nice heap. Uh people call cars heaps. You know, I don't call a car a heap, but some people do. Pretty nice heap. P&H for paracismo nocturnal hemoglobinuria. C5 gets you compliments because the C5 Corvette is such a nice car that people compliment, you know, your car. And the reason that they're complimenting you is because it's a cool car. E cool car. It's e cool car. E cooluzmab. So, I know that that might look like a lot on paper, but if you say this sentence once or twice, it's actually super easy to remember. The C5 will get you compliments because it's equal car. It's a pretty nice heap. C5 compliment protein E cool for equalizab pretty nice heap or PNH for paracismal nocturnal hemoglobinura. So this is the hardest drug in this entire list to memorize and that's why I had to come up with this pneumonic that really put everything together. Eool C5 complement P&H. If you package all that together with my pneumonic you'll be very grateful on test day. So that's Eulismab. The next drug is Natalusmab. Now Nataluzimmab targets alpha for integrine. And this gets used in multiple sclerosis but also Crohn's. And the way that I memorize this is instead of saying not to losemab, I think of not tailmab. And the reason that I do this is because since this drug is used in MS, we want to be able to memorize MS, but we also want to be able to remember alpha 4 integrant. So how can we combine four MS and the tail from not tail lusmab? Well, multiple species with tails have four legs. Multiple species is MS. So it tells you that this drug is used to treat multiple sclerosis. Multiple species with tails, tail for not tail lusm. Multiple species with tails have four legs. So like cats, dogs, etc. They all have four legs. And four should remind you of alpha for integrant. Super easy, beautiful pneumonic, sexy if I may say so myself because I've used it for years and it always works. That is natalusmab also known as Natalusab. The next drug is kinumab. Ustakidumab. This is an interesting name and I always found it difficult to come up with the pneumonic for this and a lot of my friends back when I was in medical school had no idea how to approach this one because look at how weird the name is used and it targets IL12 and IL23 to treat psoriasis. Okay, so I really had to do some serious pneumonic work here to come up with something that worked. But the way that I want you to think about this is I want you to first imagine a scenario. Think about a teenager who's growing up and this teenager is going to tell you a story and we're going to focus on the used inustinom. The teenager is going to tell you that I used to be 12 now I'm 23. Used to forkinab 12 for I12 and 23 for I23. So again the pneummonic here is think about somebody who is growing up and they're sort of reminiscing on their life and they tell you some story and they say yeah I used to be 12 now I'm 23. used to kinomab. I used to be 12. 12 for IL12 and 23 for IL23. And the other thing that you can remember if you really want to take this one extra step and remember that it treats psoriasis is that psoriasis or seroriatic arthritis is typically an autoimmune condition. And at age 23, you're in that autoimmune age range, which typically runs from like 20 to 40ish, you know, plus or minus a few years. So, I used to be 12, now I'm 23. Used to kumab. Guys, we've only got four therapeutic antibodies left. I feel like we're crushing this. Let's just keep the momentum going. Finish out this list and then I'll summarize everything at the end in a beautiful table. Absixab, ABC Immab. Okay, crazy name. ABC Immab or Absixab depending on how you want to say this. And the target here is the 2A 3B glyoproteins that are found on the platelets. So if you were studying pharmarmacology or you were studying the cardiology section of your review book, you know that there are the 2A 3B glyoproteins in platelets, you should know that from the different platelet diseases that can form if there's problems with these glyoproteins. But ABCAB targets 3A uh 2A and 3B glyoproteins. So this is actually a lot simpler than you're probably expecting it to be. Look at the name of the drug ABCAB. How do you remember that? 2 A 3B glyoproteins. So we take the C out of glyoproteins, the A from 2 A and the B from 3B. And that helps us remember ABC exam is targeting 2 A, 3B and glyo protein. So we get the A, the B and the C and it's The other thing that you can remember here is that if you say it instead of saying abixom, if you actually pronounce it as absomab, then 2 * 3 is six. 2 from 2 a, three from 3b, 2 * 3 is 6, abixab. So it's your choice how you want to memorize that. Either pneumonic works. I've used both. That's absomab, also known as ABCmab. Three more to go. Let's finish strong. Denosumab. So, denosumab targets rank L or wrinkle and this is used specifically to treat dysfunction associated with osteoclass, right? So, some bone mineralization problem. Now, how do you remember this? Well, instead of saying wrinkle, I want you to say wrinkle like but change the word around to look like an ankle, right? Like the ankle in your foot. And the way that we're going to remember this is by imagining a pair of dinosaur socks that you would put over your ankle. So what does this tell us? Dinosaur or dosaur for dosum. And you put these socks over your ankle. Ankle for wrinkle. R A N K L. So super easy to remember. All you have to remember on test day is that picture of dinosaur socks that go over your ankle. And you'll remember dinosaur or doumab over your wrinkle. R A N K L. So beautiful, sexy, dirty USML pneumonic. I love it. Next one. Omal lizumab. So omalyszumab, you're going to have to be a sports fan for this one as well. I'm sorry guys, I'm just a big sports junkie. But omal lizumab targets IG. And since it targets, it has a lot of utility for allergic asthma. So how are you going to remember this? Well, you got to remember Pton Manning. Okay, so Pton Manning is a famous quarterback who previously played in the NFL and he wore number 18. And the reason that that's relevant is because we're going to rewrite E, but we're going to use the one and the 8 from Payton Manning's number instead of the I and the E. So instead of G, it's 1 G8. And that helps us remember Payton Manning. Now, you're probably wondering, Dirty, why the hell do I need to remember Payton Manning in order to get and in order to get? Well, when Pton Manning used to come up to the line of scrimmage, he was famous for screaming Omaha. Literally go on YouTube and type in Pton Manning Omaha and you'll see a million videos about it. Everyone always made jokes because it was so funny. He would come to the line and he would, you know, put his hands under the center and scream Omaha. Omaha, Omaha. And the reason that that helps with this demonic is Omaha always reminds me of Lizumeab. So putting this all together, omizumeab makes me think Omaha makes me think Pton Manning who is number 18. And 18 is like E. You just replace the I with the one and the E with the eight. So Omuzmab, Omaha, Payton Manning, it targets G. IG because 1 G8 and he wore number 18. So if you're not a sports fan, that probably sucked for you and I'm very very sorry. But hey, I gave you a bunch a bunch of other pneumonics. So you know, beggars can't be choosers. Am I right? Let's finish this up with pale visumab. So pale vismab. Pale visimab targets the uh respiratory sensitial virus F protein. So the RSVF protein and this is obviously used for prophylaxis of the RSV virus. So how do you remember this? Well, Pale Vvisab makes me think of the Paleo diet. And if you think about who goes on the Paleo diet, well, it's for really simple vegetarians. RSV RSVF protein RSV really simple vegetarians. So the Paleo PL for pale visumab the Paleo diet is for really simple vegetarians. So congratulations boys and girls. We've made it through this exhausting list of really hard to remember therapeutic antibodies. And just to give you like a super cool summary slide so that you can fast forward to the end of this video if you want to when you're studying. Here's the summary. I'm going to just shut up for the next 10 seconds and leave this slide on so that you can just come here uh and look at this or pause the video if you want the summary, but here's where we are. I hope that this was helpful to you and please remember to sign up to support Dirty USMLE by clicking the Patreon link in the description of this video. See you next time.