This is a really tough topic. And the reason that this is tough, as we'll sort of get into as this video unfolds, is that there's so much information about the four different types of transplant rejection. And there's no good way to organize it. And in my opinion, I'm going to give you everything that you need to know today. And the way that we're going to do this is using four sentences. So basically, there's four different types of transplant rejections. And for each of those four types, I'm going to give you a oneliner that if you remember the oneliner, it'll give you most of the high yields that you need to know on test day. So, if you've seen some of my other videos, I love to simplify concepts into stories or into sentences. So, uh this little story that I'm going to tell you today that has is literally made up of four sentences will get you probably like 90 to 95% of all the questions that they could possibly ask you about transplant rejection. So, I'm super excited because this is such a hard topic to learn and I've had this story pneumonic in my back pocket for years and I've just really never made a video until now. So, what do you need to know when it comes to transplant rejection? Well, there's two large things that you need to know. The first is the types of transplants that you can get. And the second and much higher yield topic is the types of rejection that you can get. So, this video is called transplant rejection, but it would be incomplete if I didn't talk about the different types of transplants first. So, that's where we're going to go. And I'm going to use a chart and I'm going to keep this part simple. I'm not going to get too in-depth here. No crazy pneumonics for this part, but let's just keep things simple. So the first type of transplant is an autograph. And that means that it it came from your own body and went back into your body. So from the patient to the patient or from the self to the self. An example would be like when someone underos cabbage coronary artery bypass graft and they use a vein in their leg. They take it out of the patient's own leg and they put it in the patient's own heart. That is an autograph because it's staying in the same patient. So, it's from self to self or from patient to patient like that patient to that patient. And the way that you're going to memorize these different types of transplants is by looking at the prefix. It's a remarkable thing guys. The English language aka the Latin language of which English is derived tells you everything that you need to know about these different types of transplants. So, the prefix auto means self. So, autograph means self-graft. It's coming from the self and staying in the self. So it's in the same patient. It's from their leg goes to their heart. All right? That's the example that we're using. And if you don't believe me that the prefix auto means self, I mean look at this list of words. Autopilot means the plane is self-piloting. Automated means that it is a you know automatic or self uh driving system. Autodigestion is that something is digesting itself. So like pancreatic autodigestion, the pancreas literally digests itself with its enzymes. Um cameras that have autofocus, they self-focus. You don't need to do anything automatic. It's, you know, it's it happens automatically. And I hate to use it to define a word with its own word, but like think about what this prefix means. It means self happening within the same uh boundary. So that's what auto means. So autograph is self graft. So you got to know a little bit of English, a little bit of what these prefixes mean to get this part right. But if you think about it, it's not that hard. The next type is isograph. Sometimes referred to as singeneic. Now this is from a genetically identical person to the self. So this could be like your your monozygotic twin gives you something. It transplants something to you like a kidney or whatever. Iso means equal. So this is from a genetically equal person to you. And this really only occurs in monozygotic twins. Now sin genetic sin means with and genetic is genetic. So with the same genetics is what that means. But iso means equal. And if you don't believe me, let's look at some words. Isometric right equal measurement or equal meter is isomer uh has the equal formula or equal composition in chemistry. So iso means equal. So an isograft is equal graft. So it's a transplant that's coming from somebody that's genetically equal to you. So that's your monozygotic twin. That's isograft. All right. So auto means self. Iso means equal. The next one is allograph. So all comes from a genetically different person and it goes to you but it has to be the same species. So like another human being can give you something and that's an allograph. So an example would be a kidney that's transplanted from your friend right your friend is a human being and someone in the same species is giving you the transplant. So that's alograph. Now the prefix aloe means other or different. So alograph means other graft. It's a graft that comes from an other in your same species. Okay. Aloe means other. So let's look at some examples of words with that prefix to help you remember this. So the the coolest one here is alopurinol. So you all know that alopurol is a drug, but if you really think about what that drug is and how it works, you know, assuming that you understand the mechanism, it's a purine analog. So alo purinol, aloe means other or different. So it's a different purine. And because it's a purine analog, the way that alopurol works is that it's an other purine or a different or synthetic or analog of a purine. And if you understand the mechanism of alopurinol, then where they came up with the name makes perfect freaking sense, right? It's another or an other purine. It's purine analog. The alossteric alotrope, those prefixes all mean other. Okay, so an aloststeric inhibitor inhibits the enzyme at an other location on the enzyme, right? Makes sense. Alotrope has a different or other chemical composition. So those are where those words come from. Auto means self. Iso as we showed you here means equal and aloe means other or different. The last type is a xenograph. And a xenograph comes from a different species and goes to you. So this would be like if they took a pig's heart valve and then put it into your heart, right? Because it came from a different species. It's a xenograph. And xeno means alien or stranger. So you've probably heard in the news the term xenophobe. And xenophobes are people that are accused of uh being scared of or unaccepting of people that are from a different culture or from a different country etc etc. So if you think about xeno meaning alien or stranger it's someone of a different place than you. So xenograph comes from a different species than you. So again the method here there's no silly pneumonics guys it's just understanding language. Okay know the prefixes and you'll never get these questions wrong. So, here's your summary chart. And I'm going to give you a little baby pneumonic here. Little baby one. I told you I wouldn't, but I lied. I can't help myself. So, auto means self and ISO means the same. So, I'm just going to leave those as is because they're pretty easy to know. Aloe and xeno. Usually, people get those two confused. So, I'm going to uh drop a little pneumonic here for you. So, all I think of you can get it from all O people, right? You can get it from all O people. But xenograph, you can get it from extra species. extra species meaning species that are not your own and aloraph is from the same species you can get it from all o people you can get it from all people right anybody who's a human being you can get it from so I gave you two of four hopefully you can remember that auto means self and ISO means same pretty easy so we've already covered the types of transplants and what the the rest of this video is going to be on is the types of rejection and again that's the highest yield part of this video it's where we're going to spend the most amount of time on and it's where my really ridiculous pneumonic is going to come into play. And it's it's ridiculous in the sense that it works so well because it's a freaking awesome pneumonic. You'll never forget it if you listen to me tell the story a little bit. So when we talk about the types of rejection, there are four, right? There's hyperacute, acute, chronic, and then there is graft versus host disease. Okay? So you've probably seen these before in your question banks and first aid, whatever it is that you like to study. And you probably are really scared because these terms have a ton of information that come along with them. And again, there's no easy way to organize this until now. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to start with hyperaccute. We'll just work our way down. So, hyperaccute rejection. Um, actually, let me pause for a second. With all of these, you need to know the onset. So, like what time frame do these happen in? The pathophysiology and the high yield findings. So, that's how I'm going to organize these slides. So, for hyperaccute rejection, the onset is within minutes. Okay. The pathophysiology here is that there are pre-existing antibodies in the recipient, right? So the patient that's getting the transplant, patient that's receiving whatever is being transplanted and that those antibodies activate compliment against the donor's antigen. Now this is a type two hypersensitivity reaction. So you got to know your hypersensitivities here or else this won't make a lot of sense. So see that video. I have a video on hypersensitivity. Watch that one first. And the high yield finding for hyperaccute rejection is that you get vessel thrombosis. Okay, we're going to tell us I'm going to tell you guys a story and it's going to be about children who don't take care of their teeth. Now, I know what you're thinking. Dirty, how the hell am I going to remember that children not taking care of their teeth is the pneumonic for transplant rejection? Well, the way that you should think about this is that if you have really bad teeth, you're going to have to get a dental transplant. I know that sounds kind of crazy, but think about it. People have fake teeth put in all the time. And although it's not like an actual surgical transplant, it's, you know, it's a dental transplant. So if you don't take care of your teeth, you're going to get a dental transplant. So the story and the pneumonic is with children who don't take care of their teeth. All right? So the story begins right now. So I want you to remember the first pneumonic. Hyper children eat Tic Tacs. Hyper children eat Tic Tacs. Children that are really hyper in school and can't sit still, whatever. Hyper children, they're hyper because they're eating Tic Tacs. Okay. So what does this tell us? Hyper obviously for hyperacute transplant rejection. So it happens fast. It happens within minutes. hyper for hyper acute but hyper because the word hyper means really really fast. Tic tacs. What the hell do tic tacs tell us? Well, a couple things. One is that tic tacs look like the light chain of an antibbody. Okay, so it reminds you that this is because this is due to preformed recipient antibodies. And tic tac, the T and tick and the T and TAC tell us a couple things. One is that this is marked by really bad thrombus, right? Really bad vessel thrombosis. And the two T's in tick and tac tell us that this is type two hypers sensitivity. So hyperchildren eat tic tacs. This is the first sentence in our story. We're talking about transplant rejection. So you're thinking about dental transplants. And then your story begins. Hyperchildren eat tic tac. So you know hyperacute rejection tic tacs. So type two tick. So thrombus and tic tacs look like the antibbody light chain. So this has something to do with antibodies. Okay. Hyper children eat tic tacs. That's the first sentence of our story. So if we fill in our chart as we go, we're talking about hyperacute transplant rejection. This happens fast, right? Because hyper hyperchildren pathophysiology is preformed recipient antibodies in a type two hypersensitivity reaction. Our findings are vessel thrombosis and our pneumonic is hyperchildren eat tic tac. So if you remember the one sentence, hyperchildren eat tic tacs, you can kind of fill in the rest of the information. All right, this will make more sense as we complete the story, but let's just keep going so that the story really becomes complete. The next type of transplant rejection is acute acute rejection. Okay. So the onset for this one is within weeks. The pathophysiology here there's two different parts. It can either be a cellular response or a humoral response. Okay. So in the cellular side CD8 and CD4 T- cells uh go against the donor MHC and this is a type four hypersensitivity reaction. You got to study a little bit of immunology otherwise this won't make any sense. the humoral reaction. This is the same as you saw in the hyperaccute, but this happens after the transplant. And this should make sense because in hyperaccute, it's hyperaccute, right? It happens hyper or fast within minutes. This one's just acute. So, this isn't hyperaccute, it's just acute. So, it happens the same way, but it's not as fast. So, this is after the transplant. Okay. The high yield findings for acute rejection is vasculitis and that you can actually prevent this by doing amunosuppressive therapy. Okay. So again, hyperaccute versus just acute should help you, you know, reason through that the humoral response happens after the transplant. Okay. So what's our pneumonic for this one? What is the second sentence in our story? It's that weak rotting teeth that require medication. Okay. So let's let's complete the the two sentences so far. So we started with hyperchildren eat tic tacs. Now this leads to weak rotting teeth that require medication. So think about your story, guys. We're talking about transplant rejection. So you know that we're talking about dental transplants. Hyper children eat Tic Tacs and this leads to weak rotting teeth that require medication. So what does this sentence tell us? Well, weak for week, right? This happens within a week. Hyperacute happened very fast because it's hyper. It was within minutes. But acute happens within weeks and week is just you know we change the spelling. Okay. Rotting for vasculitis. So you can think of vasculitis as like internal rotting of a blood vessel. So weak rotting rotting for vasculitis. Teeth the T in t e the T means T- cells. So this is cellular immunity. Okay. Cellular immunity for the tea cells and that require medication. Medication tells you that you can treat this with imunosuppressive therapy. Okay. So let's let's go back to this slide. Hyper children eat tic tacs. So hyper for hyperacute. The children eat tic tacs. The T's and Tic Tacs tell us type two hypersensitivity and thrombosis. And this leads to weak rotting teeth that require medication. Weak because the acute uh transplant rejection happens within weeks. Rotting reminds you of vasculitis, the rotting of blood vessels. The T and teeth reminds you of a T- cell mediated cellular immunity. And that require medication tells you that acute transplant rejection is amendable to amunosuppressive therapy. Okay, so I know it's a little it's a little much, but if you say it to yourself a few times, you're going to get these details down, and I'm going to save you from having to memorize that crappy chart. So, here's where we are so far. Acute happens in weeks. It's CD8 and CD4 type 4 hypersensitivity through a cellular pathway or through the humoral pathway. It's just the same thing as hyperacute, but slower, right? Because it's not hyperacute, it's just acute. The findings are vasculitis and remember the pneumonic that weak rotting teeth that require medication. Okay, so hyperchildren eat tic tacs and this leads to weak rotting teeth that require medication. So, so far in our story, the children were eating too much candy. Now they have weak rotting teeth that's requiring medication. So the dentist is not happy. He's thinking maybe I have to do a dental transplant. Now let's talk about the chronic transplant rejection. So with chronic rejection, this happens in months. Pathophysiology here is that you have CD4 cells that respond to the recipient antigen presenting cells and what they're responding to is the donor peptide that is sort of embedded on those APCs. Now chronic is a type 2 and a type four hypersensitivity and my pneumonic will help you remember that so don't worry. And what's really high yield in the chronic rejection are the various different findings clinically that you'll see. So that includes nephropathy, so your kidney injury, accelerated arterio sclerosis, something called vanishing bileduct syndrome where you literally have destruction or you know like seeming disappearance of the bioducts, interstitial fibrosis in multiple different areas, TE-C cell mediated cytoine production and broncholyis obliterans which I for the purpose of this pneumonic call yucky lung. Okay, so oh that's a lot of stuff, right? How the hell are you going to remember this one? Well, the third sentence in our story is that months later they have 24 cavities. Okay, so here's our story. Hyperchildren eat Tic Tacs. This leads to weak rotting teeth that require medication. So months later, they have 24 cavities. So what does this sentence months later they have 24 cavities tell you? And what how does this help you remember the chronic transplant rejection? Well, months because this happens over the course of months. 24 tells you that it's both type two and type four hypers sensitivity and cavities is beautiful because it tells you all the clinical findings. So K for kidney injury aka nephropathy, A for accelerated arterioclerosis, V for vanishing bileduct syndrome, I for interstatial fibrosis of the blood vessels, T for T- cell mediated cytoine production and Y for yucky lung aka broncholitis obliterance. I mean how freaking amazing is this pneumonic? It just told you everything that you needed to know about chronic transplant rejection. So if we fill in our chart for completeness sake, we've got chronic now again occurring over months. This is a CD4 response to antigen presenting cells with donor peptide both a type 2 and a type four hypersensitivity reaction. Some key findings include nephropathy, arterioclerosis, vanishing bile duct syndrome, and bronchulitis obliterins. And our amazing third sentence of the pneumonic of the story that I'm telling you is that months later they have 24 cavities. So hyper children eat tic tacs and this leads to weak rotting teeth that require medication. So months later they have 24 cavities. At this point the dentist is really upset, right? The kid is eating too much candy. You're going to need a dental transplant. What are we going to do next? Well, the fourth and final transplant rejection is graft versus host disease. And graft versus host disease is probably the highest yield of these four different transplant rejections. And that's because the pathophysiology is really really unique. This can actually be a very variable presentation. So it could happen quickly. It could be very delayed. You don't really know. What we do know is that the pathophysiology here is that grafted tea cells that are competent, right? These are amunompetent tea cells in whatever tissue is being grafted, they reject host cells. So let's say for example, somebody gets a transplant, they get a kidney transplant. And in that kidney, there's obviously competent te- cells because the kidney came from a donor that had no problems with their immune system. So now these competent kidney cells are sitting in the the recipient or sitting in the patient that got the kidney and those cells look at the environment that they're in now and they see what they perceive to be, you know, foreign cells or amuno incompetent cells and they reject them. So this is a type four hypersensitivity reaction where the grafted cells look in their their new environment and they're like, I don't like what I'm seeing here. I'm going to cause some damage. So that is what graft versus host disease is. And if you think about the name, it's the graft verse the host. So the graft is attacking the host because it perceives its new host as being foreign. Okay, this is very common in bone marrow transplants. Now the three findings are what's most high yield about this aside from the pathophysiology. So you see hpatospenomegali, jaundice and a maculopular rash. And the reason that you see these symptoms is because the graft is attacking the host and it has a prediliction for attacking the liver, the spleen, the skin. So causes jaundice apatosomegaly and that maculopapular rash. Okay. So our fourth and final sentence of this awesome story about these damn kids that eat way too much candy and need a dental transplant, which is how you remember transplant rejection, is that you never know when their teeth will get big, yellow, and rashy. So here's our story. Hyper children eat Tic Tacs, and this leads to weak, rotting teeth that require medication. So months later, they have 24 cavities. and you never know when rashy. So, what does that sentence that you never know when their teeth will get big, yellow, and rashy tell us? Well, never know tells you that you never really know when this is going to present. This is a very variable timeline. Teeth tells us we're talking about common in bone marrow transplant because after all, teeth is bone, right? So, teeth tells us bone marrow, think about this uh graph versus host disease being very common in bone marrow transplant. And you never know when their teeth will get big, yellow, rashy. So big tells us hpatospenomegaly. Megaly means big. It means big liver, big spleen. So big for hpatosphenomegaly. Yellow for jaundice. And rashy for maculopular rash. And if this doesn't make sense to you, think for a second about what your teeth look like if you don't take care of them. If you don't floss and don't brush, they're going to get big because you're going to get gingivitis. So you're going to get gum inflammation. And gingivitis is not only big, which should make you think of big liver and big spleen like apatisomegaly, but it should make you think of like a reddish rash around your tooth where the the gum line is infected and that should make you think of maculopular rash. And then obviously your teeth are going to be disgusting in yellow, which should make you think of jaundice. So let's complete the chart. Graph versus host disease. We don't really know the timeline. Uh the pathophys is that grafted tea cells attack the native host because it thinks that the host is messed up and foreign. The findings again, big liver, big spleen, yellow skin, and immacul rash. And our fourth and final sentence in this really cool pneumonic is that you never know when their teeth will get big, yellow, and rashy. So just for completeness sake one more time, here it is. I'm going to quickly summarize since this is our last slide. We're talking today about transplant rejection. And when you're thinking about transplants, I want you to think about a pneumonic that has to do with dental transplants. So here's the story. Hyperchildren eat tic tacs. This leads to weak rotting teeth that require medication. So months later they have 24 cavities and you big, yellow and rashy. So if you want rewind the video if you hate this pneumonic then just look at this chart. But I you know this is the pneumonic that I use and I can tell you with confidence that I did really well in all these questions because I knew the pneumonic.