In this video, I'm going to be talking about the different types of collagen. Now, let's get right back into this video. So, with today's video, we're going to be talking about collagen. And I know that when I say collagen, people start to have their heart race a little bit because, as you know, there are four types of collagen. Type one, type two, type three, and type four. And if you've taken any practice questions yet whatsoever, you probably know that test writers love collagen. And I think the reason that they love collagen is because there are such subtle differences between the four types of collagen in terms of where they're found, how they're how they work, what they do, and what type of diseases manifest when you have a defect in any one of these four types. And then of course, each of those diseases has its own unique set of symptoms and buzzwords. So this topic really does allow test writers on complex and USMLE to come up with challenging questions that tie things like pathology to biochemistry to pathophysiology etc. So in today's video I'm going to break all of this down. We'll go through the different types of collagen one at a time. We'll talk about things like where the collagen's located, what it's doing, what tissues you find it in, and what types of diseases you can expect if there's a defect or mutation in the formation of that collagen. We will, of course, provide pneumonics for all of these different things, which will make this very easy to remember. So, let's dive right in and get started with type one collagen. Type one collagen is the strongest and most abundant form of collagen in the body and it's typically found in tissues where increased tensile strength is required and those tissues would be bones, tendons, the cornea and skin. So in these in these tissues you need increased tensile strength because of what those tissues actually do on a physiologic level. Now the disease that that comes up when you have a problem with type 1 collagen is osteoggenesis imperfecta. And this is a favorite of test writers because it's got very unique symptoms. Now, this is an autotosomal dominant mutation that affects collagen 1A1 or 1 A2 gene. But what's very high yield for you to take away from this lecture and memorize for test day is the classic constellation of symptoms that you'll see. Now, what are those? Well, you get non-traumatic fractures, meaning the person with osteogenesis imperfection will have a fracture, but it's not going to be because they banged their arm against a desk or that they were playing baseball and someone hit them with a bat accidentally and they fractured their bone. These fractures occur seemingly randomly without any inciting trauma and that is because the bone is weak because you don't you have a defect in type one collagen. You also see blue scara. Now that picture in the center of this slide is the highest yield picture probably in today's video because test writers love to put this in the question and ask you further questions about either type 1 collagen or the disease or the pathophysiology. And what's happening here is that because you have a decreased or defect in type one collagen, you're getting translucency of the connective tissue that lies over the koid. And because it's translucent, you actually see the blue scara. And that wouldn't typically happen in somebody who had normally functioning type one collagen. The last symptom is that you get deafness because in the bones that make up the middle ear, those bones actually require type 1 collagen. So therefore, if you have a mutation in the call 1A1 or call 1 A2 gene and type 1 collagen cannot be formed, then you can't adequately perform the function of those middle earbones. And if those middle ear bones aren't working, then obviously you're going to experience deafness. So these three symptoms are what you need to take away for osteiogenesis imperfecta, which is a disease that manifests with a problem with type 1 collagen. Now, let's go back to our opening slide. It's very, very high yield that for each of these different types of collagen, you know, the different tissues where they're found. Don't ask me why, but it comes up all the freaking time. So, how do you memorize the type one collagen occurs in bone, tendon, cornea, and skin? Well, we're going to rewrite these words using the word one because after all, we're typing, we're talking about type one collagen. So, bone has one in it. Tendon has one in it. Cornea, I kind of fudged it a little bit, but it has one in it. And instead of skin, we'll say skin tone, and the word tone has one in it. So bone, tendon, conia, and skin tone, they all have the word one in it, which should remind you that all of these tissues are highly comprised of type one collagen. So that's everything that you need to know for type one collagen. You remember the four different types of tissues that it's the most abundant type of collagen and performs a strengthening role and that if there's a problem with it, it causes osteogenesis, imperfecta marked by non-traumatic fractures, blue scara, and deafness. Let's roll right into type two collagen. Type two collagen is what's referred to as the spongy type of collagen. And the spongy type of collagen, its responsibility is to absorb shock from compressive forces. So perhaps unsurprisingly, it will be found in tissues where compressive force occurs. And those are things like cartilage, the vitrius body and nucleus pulposis. Now for type 2 collagen, there's no disease that you need to memorize. There's no disease that will come up if type 2 collagen doesn't work. Instead, really the only thing that you need to know are the three tissues that you see on this slide, cartilage, vitrius body, and nucleus pulposis. And memorize that those are all comprised of type 2 collagen. So, I know what you're thinking. Dirty, how the heck do I remember this? Well, the way that you're going to remember this is we're going to put the word to in each of these different tissues. So, instead of saying cartilage, you're going to say cartilage. Cartulage. Instead of saying vitrius, you're going to say vituis. the vituous body instead of the vitrius body. And instead of saying nucleus pulposis, you're going to say nutuous pulposis. And I'm stretching the words a little bit here, but just like with type one collagen, I think that for type two collagen, simply inserting the number two works beautifully. So cartilage, vituous body, and nutuous pulposis. That's type two collagen performing its spongy role in helping against compressive forces. And now because there's no disease you need to memorize, we are done with type two collagen. So that's the easy one. That is the easiest of the four by far. Type three collagen is a little bit more complex. Type three collagen is the webbby type of collagen. And the webbby type of collagen is there to assist with pulling forces. Now unsurprisingly, because it's assisting with pulling forces, it will only be found in tissues where pulling forces occur. And those are going to be things like blood vessels, the uterine tissues, fetal tissues, and granulation tissues. If you think about the role that each of those different tissues and vessels perform, it should be no surprise that type three collagen will assist in the natural pulling that occurs in each of those tissues. Now, for type three collagen, there is a disease that you need to memorize. And that disease that will occur when you have a problem with type three collagen is Eller's danlos type four. Now, it's a little tricky here because type three collagen causes a type 4 Ellers's Danlos, but for the purposes of tests and examinations, usually you can just get away with memorizing Ellers's Danlos. But if you want to get that 280 on USMLA, you need to know that this is Eller's Danlos type 4 specifically. Now, the problem here is that you do have deficient type three procolagen and therefore type three collagen never fully arises. And the constellation of symptoms that you need to memorize are shown on this slide. So the first is that you get a berry or a sacular aneurysm in the cerebral in the cerebral vascule. You can also see organ rupture, bleeding and bruising and a very unique feature mitro valve prolapse. So these symptoms occur in Eller Stanlo's type four which is due to type three deficient procolagen and therefore the fully uh mature type three collagen. Now let's go back to our starting slide. How do you remember that type three collagen occurs in blood vessels, uterine tissues, fetal tissues and granulation tissues. Well, my pneumonic is to abbreviate and then write the letter three after. So instead of blood vessels, we write BV for blood vessels but BV3. All of these rhyme. So you've got BV3 for blood vessels, UT3 for uterine tissues, FT3 for fetal tissues, and GT3 for granulation tissues. And if you can memorize this, you should be able to recall these four different types of tissues that have type 3 collagen. Now, taking my pneumonic even one step further, if we go back to the symptoms of LR Stanlo's type 4, you can take the two highest yield symptoms and put them right on this slide. They're berry aneurysm and mitro valve prolapse. Berry, you can say beer three, right? Three for type three collagen. And mitro valve prolapse is often abbreviated MVP, which not only rhymes with everything else that we've talked about, BV3, UT3, FT3, GT3, but it has three letters. So this is super simple to memorize for test day. You just need to remember the disease Ellers down type 4. the two very high yield symptoms that you see on this slide, the berryacular aneurysm and mitro valve prolapse and then the four different types of tissues which again are super easy to memorize using my pneumonic where you just abbreviate them and they all rhyme. That's type three collagen. Let's conclude today's video by talking about type four collagen. Now, type four collagen might be the collagen that gets tested the most on test day. It's located in the basement membrane and it provides stabilization of the cell by stabilizing the basement membrane. The tissues that it's found in include the kidney, the ear, the eye, and skin. And it shouldn't surprise you that in just a moment when we talk about the different diseases that can come up when you have a problem with type four collagen, you have problems with the kidney, the ear, the eye, or the skin. Now, type four collagen throws a lot of medical students off when they're learning in their pre-clinical years as well as when they're actually trying to take USML and complex because there are three different diseases that all become implicated in type four collagen. And I'm going to go through the differences and the subtleties and and break this down for you so that you don't poop in your pants because I know you're sitting there and you're like, "Dirty, no, not type four." Relax. Okay. So, there's three diseases we need to talk about. Alport syndrome, good pasture syndrome and epidermalyis blossa. All of these have some problem with type four collagen. So let's go through them one at a time. We'll first talk about the cause of them and the symptoms and then we'll go for the really high yield extra tidbits. Okay. So for Alport syndrome, this is just a pure mutation in type four collagen. And because you know that type four collagen is found in the kidney, in the eye, in the ear, the symptoms shouldn't surprise you. So you get progressive nefritis, ocular dysfunction, and deafness. Okay, that's outport syndrome. There are some other symptoms. This is not an all-inclusive list, but just to keep it general and to give you the overview here, that's what you see. And that one, Alport syndrome, is due to the pure mutation of type four collagen. Now, good pastor syndrome, which sometimes get gets confused with Alport syndrome, is not a mutation of type four collagen, but rather it is an immune response. It is an auto antibbody against type four collagen. So you see this the subtle difference here is that Alport syndrome is just type four collagen itself is completely screwed. But in good pasture syndrome it's the formation of that auto antibbody that gives rise to the symptoms. Those symptoms are rapidly progressive glomeular nephritis and then problems with the lungs which include hemoptasis, shortness of breath and cough. Now, in good pastor syndrome on test day, the way that they'll go after this, is to either give you the symptoms, which is honestly less likely, or what they'll actually do is show you a picture, and it'll either be under a microscope or a or a kidney biopsy, and they're going to stain that biopsy, and you're going to see one of two pictures. Those pictures are shown here on this slide. And and I understand that the pictures are tiny on this slide, but it you can see what you need to see. The first picture in pink on top shows you what's called crescent formation. So in good pastor syndrome in these rapidly progressive glomemeulonapridities you see the formation of crescent. And the way that you can remember that and the pneummonic I always used was that instead of saying rapidly progressive glomeular nephritis, I always referred to this as rapidly crescentic glomeular nephritis which reminded me that in all rapidly progressive glomeular nephrites of which good pasture syndrome is one you get the formation of crescent. The second picture is showing linear deposits of IGG along the basement membrane because good pastor syndrome is the formation of auto antibodies. Those auto antibodies deposit in a linear formation. So you see in this picture they've stained it and there's IGG deposits along the basement membrane. So those are two super high yield pictures for good pasture syndrome. You should either be able to recognize the picture by simply looking at it or be able to recognize the buzzword which might say crescent formation. It might say rapidly progressive glomeularitis with crescent in the nephron or it might say linear IGG deposits in the basement membrane. If they say either of those things they're talking about good pasture syndrome which is the auto antibbody against type four collagen. The last disease that we need to briefly go over which is the lowest yield of the three but it comes up is epidermalyis blossa. And I know you're sitting there and you're thinking what why did how does this have to do with type four collagen? The problem here is that the mutation in the type four collagen causes a weak union of the dermis and epidermis. And because that top layer and the next layer below it don't come together appropriately, you get blistering, fragile skin. So that's the only reason it's related to type four collagen. But the takeaway from this slide is that you need to know that all three of these diseases have something to do with type four collagen. And therefore, this gives test writers an opportunity to ask you questions about pathology, about disease when they start the question giving you an overview of something like biochemistry or the formation of type four collagen. Now let's go back to our slide here. I told you that type four collagen was located in the basement membrane and provided stabilization of the cell. So, so the really what you need to take away from this is that type four collagen is found in the basement membrane. And if you need a stupid pneumonic to learn that, the way that I always remembered it was I thought about baseball because there are four bases in baseball. So four reminded me of the four in type four collagen and bases or baseball reminded me of basement membrane. And that's it. I know it's pretty dumb, but hey, it works. So, that's it, ladies and gentlemen. We've gone through the four different types of collagen. We've talked about what their role is, what tissues they're found in. I've given you pneumonics, and we talked about diseases that come up when the collagen doesn't work or there's some type of mutation. I hope that you enjoyed this video. Give me a comment. More videos are coming. Love you all. Good luck.