You're trying to learn the upper extremity nerves, aka the nerves in the arm. So, let's go to armu or arm university. Arm university is important and you should be able to name some of the nerve injuries that will classically be asked on USML and complex. So, this is the pneumonic right here. Just by using the phrase armu and name some, we're going to correlate all of the upper extremity nerves to their corresponding injuries. And these are going to go in order. So let's start with the axillary nerve. So the A in arm U and the N in you should be able to name some nerve injuries. Uh they go together. So we're talking about an axillary nerve injury. So the axillary nerve arrives from the C5C6 distribution and the axillary nerve will get damaged if you have a surgical neck fracture. So the A in arm U stands for axillary axillary nerve and the N in name stands for the neck fracture or the surgical neck fracture. So the first really high yield bit of information is to know that if you have a surgical neck fracture of the humorris it will damage the axillary nerve and you can remember that because the first letter in arm u and the first letter in names go together. So A and N axillary and neck or surgical neck. So we are at ARM University and you should be able to name some of the upper extremity nerves and their injuries. The first letters go together. So axillary and neck. So let's move on. Now we're going to talk about the next letter R. And R will go with the A and M in name. So the R in arm university and the A and the M in name upper extremity nerves. So, if you haven't already guessed, R stands for radial nerve. And radial nerve comes from C5 to T1. Now, a radial nerve injury can be due to either a problem at the axilla or a midshaft fracture of the humorris. So, if you put something up tightly against your armpit or your axilla, you push on the radial nerve and can cause a radial nerve injury. Now, this is sometimes referred to as a Saturday night pausy or a crutch pausy. And the reason is is because the radial nerve runs right through the armpit. If you push anything up against the armpit, you compress the radial nerve and cause an injury. So Saturday night pausy is the image on the left. You get somebody who drinks a little too much. They fall asleep on a chair. I guess this happens on a Saturday night for some reason and the chair pushes up against the radial nerve in the axilla causing an injury. Of course, for crutch palsy, when you use crutches, you bear all of the weight of the padded top part of the crutch into the axilla. So, crutches absolutely need to be padded at the top or they can cause radial nerve injuries. So, again, we're talking about the radial nerve, the R in arm university, and A and M in name. The A for the axillary compression, which happens in a Saturday night pausy or a crotch py, and the M stands for midshaft fracture of the humorris. So when that radial nerve comes out through the axilla, it passes over the midshaft of the humorris and you can get the injury there as well if you fracture the humorris at the midshaft. So that is the radial nerve injuries, R in arm u A and M in name, A for axillary injury or axilla and M for midshaft fracture. So we've done the axillary nerve and the radial nerve. Let's move on to the M in arm university. So the M is the media nerve and that's going to correspond to the S in name sum. Now we're skipping the E in name sum. That's why I made it lowercase. It's just there to complete the pneumonic. So median nerve goes with the S in name sum. Arm the M in arm U goes with the S in name. So it's the median nerve comes from C5 to T1. And you injure the med the median nerve if you have a supraondilar fracture. And I've pointed the orange arrow to exactly where that would take place. Supra meaning just above condilar meaning the condilar region. So just above the condiler region and condiler of course like epicondile condondilar. So right above where the medial and lateral epicondile are. The supraondiler area is just above that on the humorris. So if you fracture that area you're going to injure the media nerve because the media nerve runs right over that area. So M in arm university and S in name sum they go together. So the media nerve is injured by the supraondilar fracture. Let's wrap up by talking about the owner nerve and U is for er and it goes with OM and E in name. So at ARM University you should be able to name some upper extremity nerve injuries and OM and E go together. So we're just finishing the pneumonic now. So the onar nerve comes from C8 to T1 and O stands for outstretched fall and ME stands for medial epicondilar fracture. So regarding the outstretched fall, if you fall on an outstretched hand, you can actually injure the hook of the hammade and the hammade is a bone in the hand. And actually the ular nerve passes right over the hook of the hammade. And if you fracture that bone, you can really injure the ular nerve. So the O in namesome stands for outstretched fall. The M and the E stand for the medial epicondilar fracture. Now look at our picture here. Look where that top purple arrow is pointing. Right behind the medial epicondile runs the ular nerve. So if you fracture the medial epicondile or you injure the medial epicondile through one way or another another you can injure the ular nerve. So in arm university the U stands for onar and that goes with O M and E. in you should be able to name some upper extremity nerves. O for outstretched fall, me for medial epicondilar fracture. So that's how you pair the injuries of the nerves with where they're occurring in the upper extremity. And to wrap up this video, I think we can use the nerves which you see on this slide and correlate them to their clinical findings. Now, the reason that this is important is because some test questions will go after either the clinical findings or they'll go after the location of the nerve injury or maybe the origin of the nerve itself. So, like if they're going for ular nerve, the answer might be CA to T1. But in any event, you need to be able to correlate all of this information because they'll give you some information in the question and ask you for some output in the answer. So if in the event they're asking for the clinical findings or even giving you the clinical findings, you need to be able to correlate them to the nerve injury. So by using the letters that you see here in colors, so A, R, M, and U, arm U, using our pneumonic, we can actually use those letters and correlate them to findings. So in an axillary nerve injury, A for axillary, A and arm U, you have problems with abduction of the shoulder. So you cannot abduct the R for radial nerve in ARM university causes wrist drop. So incredibly important in high yield to know that a radial nerve injury will clinically manifest as wrist drop. And I'm spelling wrist with an R instead of a W because it makes sense because we're talking about R for radial nerve. So arm university. The R in arm university stands for wrist drop. A media nerve injury will cause what's called an ape hand. And I use the M in media nerve to remind me that it causes monkey hand. So M for monkey, which reminds me of ape hand, and M for media nerve injury. You can see in the picture what the ape hand looks like. It's like strict aduction of the thumb, trouble with opposition, and a little bit of slanting of those fingers. So look up what the actual wording is to describe what you see, but that's a picture of the a hand. And then the owner nerve injury is easy because they call it the onar claw. the onar clar claw. Um, that's what you'll see in an ular injury arm university. The U in arm u U for the onar claw. But that's it guys. I really hope that this was helpful. It's a very high yield topic, very annoying to learn, but spending just a little bit of time on this will get you a lot of free points on test day.