 In this video, I'll teach you everything that you need to know about urinary casts. Urinary casts are very high yield for USMLE and COMLEX and they are one of the buzzwords or findings that show up on exams that help test writers create challenging third order questions. So if you're able to identify the buzzwords and the associations with urinary casts you can get a lot of free points. So let's start with an overview. Urinary casts is a cylindrical tube-shaped structure in the distal convoluted tubule and the collecting duct of the kidney. Now typically these suggest either glomerular or renal tubular disease, but I would note that some are benign and if you see certain types of casts, and we'll get into this more in just a moment, that can be normal. All casts rely on the presence of a mucoprotein base with varying elements attached to it. And that mucoprotein base is called a TAM-Horsfall mucoprotein. Sometimes you'll see this written out as uromodulin, but TAM-Horsfall and uromodulin, that means the same thing. This is present in all casts, and this can be a little confusing for medical students because some of you only associate that with one type of cast. But truly the base of all of these urinary casts is uromodulin or TAM-Horsfall protein. And this is produced in the ascending loop of Henle. So before we go any further, I just want you to understand that basically if you're asked, what is a cast? Explain a cast to me like I'm five. The answer is that a cast is basically a trapped coagulated mucoprotein plus other cellular content structure. And it originates in the lumen of the distal convoluted tubule or the collecting duct. It can be seen in normal physiology, but on your exam, it's generally going to be seen when there's some type of kidney injury or alteration in pH or urinary concentration. So now that we understand what a cast is, let's talk about how a cast is formed. So in general, you're going to have on your exam urinary stasis. This could be due to various different reasons, right? It could be due to some type of kidney injury. It could be due to acute tubular injury or a two-cubular necrosis. It could be due to glomerular nephritis, but something happens. And we don't worry yet about what that something is, which causes urinary stasis. Once we have urinary stasis, that increases osmolality. Once we have an increased osmolality, we have increased sodium and calcium concentrations. When that happens, our pH drops. And when our pH drops, we get increased levels of TAM horsefall mucoprotein, also known as uromodulin. Now, again, TAM horsefall mucoprotein, AKA uromodulin, this is present in normal urine, but it's when that level increases beyond normal physiological levels that the TAM horsefall mucoprotein will coagulate and attach to other trapped contents within the two- tubule lumen that shouldn't be there. And we'll get to that when we talk about cellular casts. And then you get these urinary casts forming. So, let's go through the different types of urinary casts one at a time. I'll give you a brief overview. And if there's a mnemonic that I have to help you memorize the association between the urinary cast and the disease state, I'll point that out. So, let's start with a hyaline cast. Now, hyaline casts are the most common type of urinary cast, and they are one of the casts that you can see in healthy, normal individuals. These are composed of TAM horsefall mucoproteins, which again, I told you, is in normal urine. Now, I want to pause for a second because this is a topic of great confusion for medical students. When you look through various textbooks and resources that you might be using to study, oftentimes you see TAM horsefall mucoprotein listed as an association with a hyaline cast. And that's correct. Most like 95% or something close to that of a hyaline cast is made up of TAM horsefall mucoprotein. However, I want you to understand the TAM horsefall mucoprotein is in every cast. It just makes up the overwhelming majority of a hyaline cast. And that's why when you're studying, you classically associate TAM horsefall with hyaline. So, in your exam, if they tell you in the vignette that they looked at a urinary cast under a microscope and they determined that it was mostly made up of TAM horsefall mucoprotein, chances are that you're dealing with a hyaline cast. But please note that for real life and for your exam, every single cast is going to have TAM horsefall mucoprotein. It's just that hyaline has it in a really high ratio. So, the hyaline cast is composed of our uromodulin or our TAM horsefall mucoprotein. Now, normally in the urine, that serves a lot of good physiological functions, one of which includes preventing urinary tract infection. Now, just briefly, the renal tubular cell secretes the TAM horsefall in response to low urine flow, concentrated urine, or acidic urine pH. So, it's actually like a normal defense initially. And it's found in states of dehydration or strenuous exercise. It's also common in chronic kidney disease and patients who are taking diuretics. But because the TAM horsefall mucoprotein gets excreted in states of dehydration or strenuous exercise, that is the reason why hyaline casts are very common in normal individuals who are exercising or weightlifting or running a marathon and that sort of thing. Now, these will appear cylindrical. They're clear and they're very difficult to see under a microscope. So, if you're taking your exam and they show you a picture and it's like you see something there, but it's almost invisible, that's probably a hyaline cast. You don't really have to worry about images for casts, but I would just know that because sometimes on the stupid, really experimental questions, the images do show up. Now, with hyaline casts, what you need to take away from this is that one, it's normal. Two, it's highly composed of TAM horsefall mucoproteins to an extent much greater than any other urinary cast. And it's seen in individuals who are dehydrated and exercising. And that's why it's quote unquote normal. So, I want you to use my mnemonic that hyaline casts in high exercise individuals. H-Y for high, H-Y for hyaline casts. If you can memorize that, that's really all you need to know for USMLE and COMLEX as far as hyaline casts go. Now, let's talk about granular casts. So, granular casts are the second most common type of casts. And these are formed from the breakdown of cellular casts. And when I say cellular casts, I mean like red blood cell casts, white blood cell casts, epithelial cell casts. And we'll talk about those individually in just a moment. But for granular casts, these usually represent urinary stasis in the nephron. And unfortunately, that doesn't tell you a whole lot about a disease association. But granular casts can be found in pyelonephritis, acute tubular necrosis, glomerulonephritis, and nephrosclerosis. Now, I want to point out that muddy brown casts, which we're going to talk about on the next slide right after this one. Muddy brown is actually a subtype of granular. And it's much more high yield to know about a muddy brown cast than it is to know about a granular cast. So, for the purposes on your exam, there's really not anything you need to know about granular. I would just know that they exist and that they have a lot of different associations disease-wise. But as you'll see, the associations that can be with granular casts are a lot higher yield and more associated with other casts. And for that reason, granular is really not one that I think is worth memorizing for USMOLE and Comlex. As far as its appearance, it's cigar-shaped. It has a hyaline matrix with mixed cellular debris. And its refractive index is quite high. Again, I don't think you need to memorize anything here. Let's just talk about the important subtype of granular casts. That's the muddy brown casts. So, this is a subtype, as I said, of a granular cast. It is very dark. And as you can see in this image here, you can probably appreciate that that is darkly pigmented, which if you compare that to an image of a hyaline cast or go ahead and Google what a hyaline cast looks like, this is significantly darker. Now, you want to associate muddy brown casts with acute tubular necrosis or ATN. And you'll be like, whoa, whoa, whoa, dirty. My boy, you said on the last slide that acute tubular necrosis can be associated with granular. And now you're telling me that I need to memorize it with muddy brown. Yeah, unfortunately, when it comes to urinary casts, there is a lot of overlap. But if you have to take a guess and you have to pick one answer based on what cast you're given, you want to associate muddy brown with ATN. And the reason that we do that is because the dark pigmentation that you see in muddy brown and the reason that the muddy brown casts are forming to begin with is because you have the presence of tubular injury and of all the different disease processes, the one that is most highly associated with acute tubular injury is, of course, acute tubular necrosis. The dark brown muddy color that you see here, we think that's due to mitochondrial pigment or lipofuscin that basically leaks out when you have acute tubular necrosis. But that is a bit more theoretical. Bottom line here, muddy brown equals ATN. So my mnemonic is that I associate mud with driving an ATV, right? People drive ATVs through the mud for fun. So ATV kind of sounds like ATN. And mud, ATV, mud, ATN, muddy brown, ATN, acute tubular necrosis. So that's the easy way to memorize this. But bottom line here, when it comes to muddy brown casts, which again are a subtype of granular casts, you got to associate that with acute tubular necrosis. Now let's talk about fatty casts. Fatty casts are formed by the breakdown of lipid-rich epithelial cells. So essentially, these are like highland casts that has an oval fat body inclusion. And that buzzword, that oval fat body, that's become very buzzy on exam. So if you see that, that is telling you you're dealing with a fatty cast. Now the other thing that the exam writer really likes is what's called the Maltese cross sign. So because of the way that the fat droplets look under polarized light, if you look at my image here, this is said to look like a Maltese cross. So if you see that image, it's very unique. It's very specific for a fatty cast. These appear round and they're variable in size, which is important because if you look at the image of them, some people think that they look a lot like red blood cell casts. But the fact that these are variable in size helps you differentiate that against the red blood cell casts, which appear more uniform in size. Now these are associated strongly with nephrotic syndrome. And if you've done your studying in the renal chapter, you know that one of the key findings of nephrotic syndrome is all these lipid changes and these things having to do with fat. So it should not come as a surprise to you that fatty casts, right? Literally the only cast with fat in the name are associated with nephrotic syndrome. So you really, really want to memorize that fatty and nephrotic go together. Now my mnemonic to memorize that is instead of nephrotic, I think nephrotic or nephatty. So nephatty syndrome or nephratic syndrome, if you, if you will. And that helps me memorize that fatty casts equals nephrotic syndrome. Now let's talk about waxy casts. So waxy casts are formed by late stage degeneration of granular casts. So granular casts came first, then they degenerated and they turned into waxy. And this represents renal stasis. And you're like, you got to, at this point in the video, you're like, dude, I don't understand. You're like, you're telling me that renal stasis is present in this cast and renal stasis is present in this cast. And if the kidney gets punched, it's going to form both of these casts. Yeah, there's overlap. That's the unfortunate reality of this topic. But waxy casts are associated with longstanding and end stage renal disease. And to be clear on your exam, if the test writer wants you to pick a waxy cast, they're going to give you a patient who's had chronic kidney disease, stage four or stage five for years. And I mean like 10 plus years. So they're not going to give you an acute renal pathology. They're going to give you longstanding chronic kidney disease. And then that will point you in the direction of a waxy cast. How this looks is it's highly refractive, dark borders. It's homogenous. And it has, quote, sharp broken off ends and indentations. That's a buzzy description because no other cast looks like that. So if you see anything about being sharp or broken or indented, that's waxy. That's going to wax. That's going to wax. So these are waxy casts. Not a whole lot to know here other than waxy equals longstanding kidney disease. So less of an acute pathology, more of your elderly patients who have CKD stage three, four, five, that sort of thing. Now let's talk about red blood cell casts. So I want to pause and point out that now we're talking about a cellular cast, which is to say that the cast has cellular components within it. And you see a cell in the name, right? Red blood cell casts. So we're talking about cellular casts. So these are formed when the red blood cell accumulates in a protein matrix after leaking out of the glomerulus. So basically what happens here is that in a state of either glomerulonephritis or vascular disease, you have red blood cell leakage. And when you have red blood cell leakage, then you have the coagulation of the red of the cell type. In this case, the red blood cell in that protein matrix. And that's why you get red blood cell casts. So because of that, these are highly associated with different types of glomerulonephritis and vascular disease, such as granulomatosis with polyangiitis, lupus, post-strept glomerulonephritis, good pastor syndrome, and hypertensive emergency. So how these look is that they will be biconclave red blood cells with dark stained hemoglobin. So bottom line here, red blood cell cast equals glomerulonephritis and vasculitis. That's what you need to memorize here. Vascular disease and glomerulonephritis. Now let's differentiate that against a white blood cell cast. A white blood cell cast is formed when white blood cells accumulate inside of a protein matrix in the tubular lumen. So very similar to our RBCs, our WBCs, you know, they're present, they leak out, they coagulate, they mix with the protein matrix, and you get white blood cell casts. Now these are associated with high states of intrarenal high inflammation. And in the two most common that you absolutely need to memorize are pyelonephritis and interstitial nephritis. Those are the big two. But I would also point out that occasionally I've seen some challenging questions where you have to identify, WBC casts in transplant rejection. But if you only have the brain space for two, memorize interstitial nephritis and pyelonephritis. These have sharp, these have central nuclei with sharp margins, and they also can, can contain multi lobed cells. Again, we're dealing with a derivative of a white blood cell. So some of the natural anatomy of that cell kind of gets pulled into the cast. And that's why you see multi lobed cells with sharp margins and central nuclei. So WBCs equal interstitial nephritis and pyelonephritis. Now let's conclude with epithelial cell casts. So these are formed when desquamated epithelial cells of the tubule lining kind of slough off and end up coagulating. These are associated with conditions where obviously the tubular cells will be sloughed off because how could you form an epithelial cell cast if the cells never fall off to begin with? So these are associated with various disease processes. And this can be a little bit confusing because it's associated with interstitial nephritis, acute tubular necrosis, and proliferative glomerular nephritis, all of which you've seen associated with other types of casts. So the really what will get you to move in the direction of an epithelial cell cast is either they're going to focus highly on a tubule injury where again those tubular cells which are going to be epithelial will be sloughed off. Or they're going to describe the anatomy or the form that you're seeing and they're going to use the word sheets. So these appear in sheets or clumps of tubular cells and they are in multiple layers. So that description is pretty unique for epithelial cell casts. Now the thing I want you to understand is that whether you're dealing with epithelial cell casts as a result of acute tubular necrosis or you're dealing with a muddy brown cast as a result of acute tubular necrosis, you want to associate the various causes of acute tubular necrosis with these casts. And this is a good opportunity for the test writer to give you a third order question because they could basically describe for you either the epithelial cell casts or the muddy brown casts, essentially hint to you that you're dealing with acute tubular necrosis, and then ask you for the etiology. So you got to remember that when it comes to acute tubular necrosis, you have ischemic etiologies and nephrotoxic etiologies. And when we talk about ischemic etiologies, we're talking about things like hypovolemia and sepsis. When we talk about nephrotoxic etiologies, which is probably what they're going to give you on your exam, we're talking most often about drugs and drug-related causes. So things like your aminoglycosides, if somebody is getting imaging done and they're given contrast, remember that that can be nephrotoxic. In the case of epithelial cell casts, they like to associate acute tubular necrosis with toxic ingestion of either heavy metals or things like ethylene glycol or the presence of urate crystals from tumor lysis syndrome. So just associate all of these etiologies with downstream acute tubular necrosis, because I've seen test writers essentially give you a question, describe somebody who was treated with an aminoglycoside, and then they'll say, oh, and this is in the urine. And now you're like, oh, it's a muddy brown cast. So what's going on here? The answer is acute tubular necrosis. There's been challenging questions that have popped up where they'll give you somebody who has a heavy metal exposure, and now you have something in the urine appearing in sheets. And you've got to be like, oh, that's an epithelial cell cast. I've got to work backwards. I'm probably dealing with acute tubular necrosis due to toxic ingestion of some type of toxin. And your brain has to be able to make those third-order connections. So those are your epithelial cell casts. Let's wrap up with a really, really simple high-yield table. You're like, dude, I don't care about anything you said for the last 10 minutes. Tell me the short and sweet of what I should memorize. And here's my answer. So highland cast equals nonspecific and healthy individuals exercise states. Granular muddy brown. Just remember that for muddy brown, acute tubular necrosis. Muddy brown is a subtype of granular. Granular is not worth memorizing. Fatty cast equals nephrotic syndrome. White blood cell cast equals interstitial nephritis and pyelonephritis. Red blood cell cast equals glomerular and vascular disease. There's lots of different causes there. Epithelial cell casts, not worth memorizing because there's some overlap with muddy brown, but heavy metal exposure and acute tubular necrosis also in epithelial casts, but probably not worth memorizing because it's too confusing. And then waxy is going to be your long-standing kidney disease. So it can be AKI, but more commonly, we're talking about chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease. So if you don't care about this topic and you just want to spend two minutes on it, this is the table to memorize. But if you do care and you want to get the perfect score on your test, rewatch this video a few times. Good luck.