Now, in today's video, we're going to be talking about the United States Preventive Services Task Force, also known as the USPSTF. It's a mouthful. And from this point onward, I'm going to refer to this organization as USPSTF. Now, just a little blurb about the United States Preventive Services Task Force before we begin. So, USPSTF is an independent volunteer panel of national experts in disease prevention and evidence-based medicine. And by the way, I I took this little blurb directly from their website. The task force works to improve the health health of all Americans by making evidence-based recommendations about clinical preventative services. So basically what this organization does is they look at different diseases. They look at different pathologies, if you will, and they make clinical evidence-based recommendations about how often and by what means Americans should be screened for these different diseases. And the goal obviously is to uh prevent the onset of disease. So to prevent cancer, to prevent high blood pressure, things like that. So this is all about preventative medicine. Now I stole this from their website as well. This is how they assign their recommendations. They use different letter grades. So there's A, B, C, D, and I. So if if the USPSTF assigns a grade A to a recommendation, it means that they recommend the service. So for example, colonoscopy. If they assign a grade A to it, they'll say they recommend colonoscopy at age so and so. So there's a high certainty that the net benefit is substantial. So that's the best grade that they can give. If they're giving something the grade of an A, it means it should be done. So the suggestions for practice will, you know, the USPSTF will tell clinicians that they suggest that clinicians offer or provide the service. So, if we're using the example of a colonoscopy, if it has a gradea uh USPSTF recommendation to be done at age 50, that means that the USPSTF recommends the colonoscopy at age 50. And then the suggestions for the clinician is to offer or provide the service based on the age and other criteria. So, that's grade A. If they assign a grade B, it means they recommend the service. There's a high certainty that the net benefit is moderate or there's a moderate certainty that the net benefit is moderate to substantial. So grade B is like one step down from grade A. It's showed in green here because it's still recommended. They still think that clinicians should offer it based on a grade B recommendation. Now grade C is where it gets yellow. And the reason that it's yellow is because if they assign a grade C recommendation, then the USPSTF recommends selectively offering or providing this service to individual patients based on professional judgment and patient preference. Okay, patient preference. Big high yield point there. There is at least moderate certainty that the net benefit is small. So what is the recommendation from USPSTF to the practicing physician? Well, their suggestion for practice for a grade C recommendation is that the clinician offer or provide the service for select patients depending on the individual circumstances. So instead of the grade A and grade B recommendation where they always suggest having this screening measure done, if the USPSTF task force assigns a grade C recommendation, they're saying eh it it it could help, but it has to be in the right circumstances. So, they're not just making a blanket suggestion that all patients have this done. They're leaving this to the discretion of the physician. And we'll get into examples of this throughout the video. Now, a grade D recommendation you see here in red, and that's because the USPSTF recommends against the service or against the screening measure. There is moderate or high certainty that the service has no net benefit or that the harms outweigh the benefits. So the suggestion for the the doctor or the clinician is that they discourage the use of the service. So it's not recommended. And then if it is I you see it here in white then the USPSTF concludes that the current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of the benefits and harms of the service. Evidence is lacking of poor quality or conflicting and the balance of benefits and harms cannot be determined. So this is really reserved for things where they're just not sure yet. the evidence isn't there and therefore the suggestion for practice is that you read the clinical consideration section of the the USPSTF database or website. Um if the service is offered patients should understand that there's uncertainty about its benefits and that has to be made clear to the patient. So this is how the USPSTF grades their recommendations. And the takeaway from this slide should be that if it's A or B, you should have it done. If it's C, eh, maybe if the patient really wants it or the circumstances are right. If it's D, no way in hell. It is not recommended. And if it's I, then there's just not enough evidence yet. And if a patient wants it done, then the patient should know that the evidence is unclear. So that is a little overview about the United States Preventive Services Task Force, also known as USPSTF. For the remainder of this video, we're going to go through all of the different recommendations that they make and talk about some pneumonics to help you remember the different screening modalities and treatments and intervals and tests for all of these different diseases. So, this is a really really high yield video. I've been working on this for a long time and I I really hope that you enjoy this and learn a lot. So, the first thing we're going to talk about is blood pressure screening. Okay, so we're going to start with blood pressure. And screening should be done in two different age groups. So in the first age group we have adults that are 40 years or older with risk factors for hypertension. In the second group we have adults that are between the ages of 18 to 39 with no risk factors. Okay? So age 40 or older with risk factors or ages 18 to 39 with no risk factors. If you fall into that group of you're 40 years or older and you have risk factors for hypertension, then you want to have your blood pressure screening done yearly. If you are 18 to 39 and you have no risk factors, so you have no other cardiovascular problems or other risk factors for hypertension, then you can have blood pressure screening done every 3 to 5 years. So typically this is done when you go to your primary care uh office visit, you know, your family medicine doctor, etc., and they take your blood pressure in the office. And with that in mind, I want to bring up a very high yield clinical scenario that goes along with this that comes up on tests all the time. Let's say that a patient comes to your office and you're a primary care doctor and you measure their blood pressure as 158 over 98. What do you do next? And the question on exams might might give you options like start them on a medication, encourage lifestyle changes, initiate ambulatory monitoring, tell them to have a Mediterranean diet, tell them to have a low salt diet. All of the answers are going to sound really sexy and you're going to be like, uh, these all sound good. I don't know what the actual recommendation is. And the answer here is that you're going to start with lifestyle changes followed by ambulatory monitoring. So ambulatory monitoring means that you monitor them in an ambulatory setting. So you know outside of the office and basically what you want to do is you want to tell patients that have a firsttime blood pressure reading that is elevated first thing they do is change their lifestyle and second thing is they're going to keep a blood pressure log at home because a lot of times in the office up to 30% of patients will have white coat hypertension. So they'll have elevated blood pressure because they're they're sort of subconsciously nervous about having their blood pressure taken in the office. So you can't reliably use that reading to predict who is actually hypertensive. So you send them home with a prescription to get a blood pressure cuff or you just tell them to get it over the counter and you have them take their blood pressure at home and write down what it is. They come back to the office and if their blood pressure readings at home are also high then that means their ambulatory monitoring of their blood pressure was elevated and then the correct answer is to start them on the appropriate treatment for hypertension. So this is a very high yield clinical scenario because you have to do ambulatory monitoring before you can definitively diagnose hypertension. High yield, please don't forget it. Now what are the goals of treatment? Right? What blood pressure do we want people to be at once we're treating them? And the answer here depends again on the age group. So in folks who are 60 or older, the treatment is different than for folks that are 59 or younger. Okay? So we don't need to be as aggressive with the elderly folks who have hypertension as we would be in somebody who's 59 or younger and can handle more aggressive management of their blood pressure. So for 60 and older, the goal is 150 over 90. And for 59 and younger, the goal is 140 over 90. So these are the USPSTF recommendations. This could differ slightly from JNC guidelines, but this is typically where the questions will come from on your exam. So again, the takeaway here is that for 60 and older, 150 over 90, and for for 59 or younger, the goal is 140 over 90. Now, what's the treatment that you use, right? What medication is first line for hypertension? And this gets a little bit more into kind of the clinical recommendations that come from the JNC side, but I want to include this here for completeness sake because it is high yield and it does show up on exams all the time. Black patients versus non-black patients, the first line treatment will be different. In your black patients, you want to do calcium channel blockers and thioides. And in your non-black patients, you actually would should start with an ACE inhibitor or an ARB and then you could do calcium channel blockers and thioides if you need further treatments added on. But ACES and ARBs are typically the best initial treatment in your non-black patients. But for your black P patients, you definitely want to do calcium channel blockers or thioides. You should avoid the aces and the ARBs in folks who are black. Now, how do you remember this? Well, the way that I remembered this was I thought about the two most famous aces in movies that I could think of. And for me, that's Ace Ventura and Ace Rothstein. Um, and both of those guys are white. So, that reminded me that aces are for white people. And for our black patients, you would avoid aces because both of these aces are white. Um, that's just a stupid way that I remembered this, but again, this slide to summarize, 40 years or older with risk factors, you get your blood pressure screened yearly. 18 to 39 without risk factors, you go every 3 to 5 years, which makes sense because you're younger, you have no risk factors, you're healthier. It doesn't have to be every year. Clinically, if someone comes in with an elevated blood pressure reading for the first time, you have to do ambulatory monitoring at home. Have them record their blood pressures, initiate lifestyle changes, and then come back to see if they actually have true hypertension. Goals of treatment, age 60 and older, the goal is 150 over 90. Ages 59 and younger, the goal would be 140 over 90. And treatments, if you are black, calcium channel blockers and thioides. And if you're non-black, remember that non-black people get aces because these guys, ace ventura and ace Rothstein are white. So aces and arbs first and then calcium channel blockers and thioides. So that is blood pressure screening um according to the United States Preventive Services Task Force and this is what you should take away. All very high yield clinical information that's bound to show up on some exams. Let's get into colon cancer screening. So colon cancer screening is a little tricky because there's a lot of different options for how you can screen for colon cancer. And I think before we get into the recommendation from the USPSTF, we should talk about what these different options are and what each of them looks like and means because how can you understand the recommendation if you don't know what all of these terms refer to? So your options are colonoscopy, sigmoidoscopy, fecal occult blood testing, fecal aminochemical testing or fecal imuninochemical testing with DNA. So you've got fit or fit- DNA if it has the DNA component in the test. And then fecal blood testing is FOBT. You might see that. So what is all this stuff? Well, hopefully you know what a colonoscopy is. A colonoscopy, the scope that gets inserted into the rectum actually goes through the entire intestine and it can see everything all the way up. Uh where a sigmoidoscopy is just limited to really the sigmoid colon. So on the left you see the colonoscopy, the camera and the scope can actually go all the way up, but in the sigmoidoscopy it's just up to the sigmoid colon. Now, these two tests tend to represent the uh most commonly used methods of screening for colon cancer. And the best way of screening, if you ask most of your GI docs, is going to be the colonoscopy. So, if you're sitting at home and you're an older medical student and you're approaching the big day where you get to do your bowel prep and have one of these guys done, then most of the time you should get the colonoscopy done. But this is this is really what the recommendation is. It's to get the colonoscopy done. We'll talk about how often it needs to be done and all that stuff a little bit later in this section of the video, but the my main point here is that colonoscopy versus sigmoidoscopy, the really really the only difference is how far up the camera goes. Another option which actually wasn't listed on the previous slide, but I'll include it for completeness sake is CT angography. Now, this is not a wonderful way to look at colon cancer, but nonetheless, it could theoretically find it. CT angography is basically when dye gets put into the blood vessels that supply the colon. Hence the name angography, right? Remember that the prefix angio refers to blood vessel. Um angography. So you put the dye in, it lights up the blood vessels that feed the colon and then you do a CT scan and you look at the distribution of that blood flow to find out if colon cancer is present. So that is CT angography. In fecal oult blood testing, the goal of the test is to determine if there is hidden blood in the stool. So, let's say that you take a poop. The poop's going to come out brown and you're not going to know from simply looking at it whether or not there's blood in it. But if there's microscopic blood in it that the human eyeball can't see, but that a laboratory microscope could detect or a test like this could detect, it might signal that there's some type of colonic pathology going on, which could be colon cancer. So oftent times the fecal oult blood test and the next two tests after it that we'll talk about briefly, what they're doing is simply screening for the presence of something that could tip you off that there is colon cancer or some other colon pathology going on. So if you look at the name of this test, it's fecal occult blood test. Fecal means poop, occult means hidden, and blood test obviously means blood test. So this is a test that looks for hidden blood in the poop, right? Pretty simple. and the fecal oult blood test and the next test we'll talk about which I'll just show you really quickly is the fecal aminoemical test also known as fit. Both of these tests are trying to figure out if there's hidden blood or a cult blood in the poop and they do it a little differently but they both accomplish the same thing. The fecal oult blood test is trying to determine if there's heem in the poop which of course is an element of hemoglobin. It's the heem part of hemoglobin. And if it's present in the poop, you know that there's blood there. And if we contrast that, the fecal amunochemical test or fit is looking for the globin portion, which is of course part of hemoglobin. So we're still looking for blood because we're looking for hemoglobin, but the fit test finds the globin and the fecal oult blood test finds the heem. So they're both detecting parts of hemoglobin, which is obviously in blood, but it's occult blood because you can't see it grossly. And in both of these tests, if they're positive, it could tip you off that there's something going on and you might actually need to just get the colonoscopy done. There is a variation of the fit test which is it um written as fit- DNA and it's the same thing as the fit test but it also has a DNA test where it's just looking for abnormal DNA which you would classically see in cancer cells or hyperlastic cells which would be an indication that there's some type of abnormal cell growth going on. So the takeaway from just briefly talking about each of these tests is to familiarize you with what they actually are and what they're actually doing so that you can take that one step further and understand the recommendation for colon cancer screening from the USPSTF. So let's talk about this. So again to summarize for screening you've got two different options. You can do direct visualization techniques where you actually are looking at the anatomy and the architecture in the colon to detect the presence of cancer. Or you can do stool-based testing where you're actually just looking at the poop to figure out is there blood in there or is there abnormal DNA which could be a sign of abnormal cell growth. And here's again what we've talked about the direct visualization techniques colonoscopy sigmoidoscopy CT angography and the stoolbased testing is fecal oult blood testing fobt fecal aminoemical testing fit or fit and then the same thing but with that DNA test included as well. And here are the different timelines for when this screening should be done. So the recommendation from the USPSTF is to do them in these time frames. Now the the strongest recommendation tends to be to get the colonoscopy done every 10 years. Um but you can instead of that you could do the sigmoidoscopy every 5 years. Most GI doctors will not recommend that you do anything else but the two. But if you are insisting that you cannot tolerate the anesthesia or the bowel prep, then the CT angography could be done every 5 years. And if we jump down into stool-based testing, the fecal oult blood test should be done yearly. The fecal aminoemical test or fit could be done yearly. And then the fit DNA test can actually be done every 1 to 3 years. Um, the nice thing about the fit DNA test is now you can order them straight to your house, do it at home if you follow the instructions, send it back to the lab, and they'll give you your results. So, it doesn't require as much as like, you know, preparing and going in to a same day procedure or an outpatient surgery center to have the colonoscopy done. So, how do you remember this? Right? You got to have some pneumonics. This is a lot of information. For sigmoidoscopy, I think of sigman freud because of sigmoidoscopy and freud has five letters. And that reminds me that sigmoidoscopy can be done every five years. For CT angography, I remember angio which also has five letters. So both angio and freud for angography and sigmoidoscopy for sigman freud. Freud and angio both have five letters. So those are both done every 5 years. And then DNA has three letters. So, of the stoolbased testing, it's the only one that has uh two threeletter words in it. It's got fit and DNA in it. So, because that's a three-letter word, then I I remember that it's 1 to 3 years. So, it's the exception to the yearly options in the stool-based testing category. So, let's talk about how old you should be to get this screening done. So, obviously, these are the different options and how often they can be done, but when do you start? Well, the USPSTF recommends that you start from ages 50 and you go to age 75. So 50 to 75 is going to be your age range. The only exception to this rule is if you have a family history of colon cancer or another genetic condition which predisposes you to colon cancer. So if that's the case, then the way that you do it is you you look at the family member who had colon cancer and whatever age they were diagnosed at, you go 10 years earlier than that age or you start at age 40 depending on which one comes first. So So let me give you an example. Let's say that I have a relative who was diagnosed with colon cancer at age 52. The way that I would start my screening is to go 10 years earlier than that, which would be age 42. or I could simply do age 40 because that comes first. Let's do another example. Let's say that I have a family member who is diagnosed with colon cancer at age 36. In that case, I would want to get my screening started 10 years earlier. So, I would start at 26 since that comes before age 40. So, in that case, I would start at 26. The two conditions that you should remember for tests for the conditions that uh expose you to a greater chance of getting colon cancer that would be Lynch syndrome and FAP familial adenomomas poliposis whatever the hell it stands for FAP. It's basically the thing where you got a bunch of hyperplastic polyps. Um in both of those conditions you're going to have an increased risk of cancer and therefore uh you're going to want your screening to start really really early. So these are the recommendations and let's talk about follow-up because this is high yield and it's clinical and it comes up a lot on exams. Let's say you get a colonoscopy done and you find a high-risisk adenoma. The question could be how soon do you have to come back to get your next colonoscopy done? Likewise, it's different if you see a low-risisk adenoma or even just a you know your generic hyperlastic polip that will be less than 10 millimeters on your test. So here's the answer. are three years for high- risk adenoma, 5 years for lowrisk adenoma, and 10 years for hyperplastic polyp. So, um, most of the hyperplastic polyps that will be on your exam will be less than 10 millimeters because if they wanted to give you something super scary that you had to come back sooner for, they would make it an adenoma. So, it would be a high-risisk adenoma or a low-risisk adenoma. And you would be able to differentiate if it's high or low risk based on the pathology and the hisytologology. So what you look at under the microscope and for that I would direct you to pathoma. He's got an awesome chapter on GI about what the different features are. Um but if it's high risk again high-risisk adenoma you got to get your testing done 3 years later. If it's a low-risk adenoma you come back 5 years later for repeat. And if it's a hyperlastic p-up that's less than 10 millime you'll come back and just do your 10-year follow-up like you normally would. So what's the takeaway here? Remember ages 50 to 75. And then here's your timeline. So colonoscopies every 10 years, sigmoidoscopies every 5 years, CT angography every 5 years, fecal oult or fecal immuninochemical testing every every year and then if it's the fit with the DNA test component, it can be 1 to three years. Okay? And I remember that because DNA has three letters, so it's up to three years. So that's everything that you should know about the recommendation for colon cancer screening. I know it's a lot of information, but it's super high yield and there's a lot of different clinical scenarios that could come up that could really show up on your exam. So, please know that information. Now, let's talk about breast cancer screening. So, the recommendation for breast cancer screening is what's known as a bianial or every other year screening from ages 50 to 74. So, every other year starting at age 50 going up to age 74 is how the screening should be done. Okay, we're talking about mammograms or mimography and self- exam is not recommended. So, the USPSF has assigned I think a grade D recommendation for self-exam. It is not recommended that women be taught how to examine their own breasts for lumps because the problem is that it causes a lot of psychological harm if a woman palpates something that she thinks is cancer but in reality is not or is something more benign. And this is a theme that you'll see throughout this video today. Okay, this is not the only example of this, but there are some situations in which self-exam or some test has a a lower grade recommendation from the USPSTF because of the potential of false positives and psychological harm. And this is our first example of that. Now, let's do a high yield clinical scenario. Let's say that a patient does, you know, feel her own breast at home. she's doing a self- exam because she doesn't know about the USPSTF recommendation or maybe she's got a bad OBGYn who encouraged her to do this despite the fact that the recommendation is against it and she actually feels a lump on her breast and now she's concerned that she has cancer. On tests, this is a classic step two question, a classic step two, level two question. They're going to ask you what's the next best step and you're going to get things like mimography, ultrasound, MRI, fine needle aspiration, or watchful waiting or surveillance where you just wait and see what happens. And it's a tough question, right? Because they all sound like pretty good answers. Well, it's going to depend on the age range. You have to do a follow-up imaging if this is the clinical scenario that you get. And basically what the recommendation is is that if the patient is less than age 30, the next best step is to get an ultrasound of the breast. And if the patient is older than 30, then the next best step is to get a mammogram of the breast. So keep this in mind. It's super super high yield. And I've actually developed an awesome pneumonic for this. Ultrasound under 30 and mammogram more than 30. So ultrasound and under for 30 and mammogram and more for, you know, older than 30. So ultrasound if they're under 30 or mammogram if they're more than 30. Know that and you will get so many questions right on this in your question banks and on step two level two. It's really really cool. So that's it for breast cancer. Really nothing more that I want to bog your mind down with. Just remember we start screening every other year from age 50 to 74 using mimography and self-exam is actually not recommended. And then if a patient does find a lump on their breast the next best test will depend on how old they are. So under 30 ultrasound, more than 30 mamogram. Remember the U's and the M's. It's an awesome pneumonic and I used this all the time back in the day when I was studying. So that's breast cancer screening. Now let's do cervical cancer screening. So cervical cancer screening, there's two techniques that are you're going to see written in your question banks and on tests. And I want to make sure that you understand what these things refer to because truthfully, when I was a medical student, I didn't know what these things meant. Um, and obviously I'm a male so I never had this done to me. So there are two techniques. So there's the cytology which is the papsmear and then there's the human papilloma virus or HPV testing where you're actually testing for the virus itself. So the cytology or the papsmear basically during the exam they'll take a little brush and they'll put it just in the opening of the cervix and sort of spin it around. And when they're doing that, the tip of the brush is collecting a sample of the cells on the cervix. And then they take that brush out and they put it in a tube. And that tube they they use it to make a sample and put it on a slide and look at it under a microscope. So the two steps of cytology is to first get the cell sample during the exam, which you see on the left part of this slide, and then two to take the brush that has the cell sample and prepare a slide to examine it microscopically. and under the microscope you can see if there's changes in the cellular architecture which could tell you that there's something going on. So that's what cytology is and that's where the papsmear comes from. It's named for some guy whose name is like papa nicolo or something like that. Um it's cytology papsmear same thing if you see those terms. Now the HPV testing I'm not going to put a slide on it but it's basically a direct test for the virus and that's your other option. So what's the recommendation? Well, for cervical cancer screening, the age range for screening will go from 21 to 65. And the the frequency of screening and what's used is going to depend on ages. So, you have to memorize this little nuance here. From age 21 to 30, you do cytology every 3 years. So, you do a papsmear every 3 years. And then from ages 30 to 65, you do what's known as co-esting. And what that is is that you do the papsmear plus the HPV test and you do that combination every 5 years. Okay? So 21 to 30 you do papsmear every 3 years which is also known as cytology. And then from 30 to 65 you do the papsmear which is known as cytology but you also test for HPV directly and you do that combination which is referred to as co-esting every 5 years. So that's the really high yield screening recommendation from the USPSTF. The other really high yield thing that I need to point out because this shows up a lot on exams. I'm not really sure why, but they love this question. Even if the patient is sexually active before age 21, you do not test for cervical cancer. You do not test for it. So, the classic test question is they're going to give you this 18-year-old who is very high risk using, you know, having unprotected sex, doing drugs, all this stuff, and they're going to ask you if you should test them for cervical cancer, right? The question will basically be, should they have cytology done or should they have the HPV testing done or the co-esting, whatever the case, they're going to give you all these different options for screening for cervical cancer. And the answer is no. Don't do it. wait till they're 21 and then do it because this is another one of those conditions where the false positive rate is so high and there's a lot of psychological harm that comes along with seeing that you're positive for HPV. And the truth is is that everybody has HPV. It's one of those really ubiquitous viruses that's everywhere. So, the simple presence of HPV on your cervix or on your body somewhere is is is very psychologically harming. And chances are that if they look at your cervical cells under a microscope, the architecture will probably be normal. So the recommendation is to wait until age 20. Please remember that. Very, very high yield. Now, you can't talk about cervical cancer without talking about prostate cancer because these are the two big ones that come up on exams all the time and they're going to ask you silly questions. So, we just went through cervical cancer. Now, let's talk about the good old prostate. So the screening recommendation here is that from ages 55 to 69 it's left to the discretion of the patient. So what we're referring to is the the uh prostate specific antigen also known as the PSA. And having that done is not recommended. Okay? Not recommended. And the way that you should remember this is that PSA stands for pretty shitty assessment. Okay? There are a lot of different things in life that can cause your PSA to be elevated that have nothing to do with prostate cancer. Therefore, doing this test is pretty clinically useless. Okay? It's not recommended. It should not be done. And in any male who's between the ages of 55 to 69, the USPSTF recommendation is a grade C. Okay? which is to refresh your memory is the one that basically is like you leave it up to the patient and if they really want it done then you can do it but you got to leave it up to them. So that's prostate cancer. We're not going to talk about anything more. Know that PSA is pretty shitty assessment and that a lot of different things can falsely elevate it and that from ages 55 to 69 it's really up to the patient. Because it's up to the patient, the recommendation is really not to have it screened too much. So, I don't think it's going to show up as much as some of these other screening guidelines, but just know it. The next thing that we need to talk about is an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Hm. So, maybe you've never heard of this before in terms of screening, but it's actually a really big deal. We know that this is a big deal because the the greatest risk factor for an abdominal aortic aneurysm is a history of smoking. And because you're taking USML or complex, anything that is going to u worsen mortality is going to show up on exams. And smoking is just, you know, such a hot topic for these tests. So, let's talk about the recommendation. So, first, there's a lot of different criteria here. First, it's only for men that have ever smoked and it's for ages 65 to 75. And if they fall into this category, then what you're going to do to look for the presence of an abdominal aortic aneurysm is do a one-time abdominal ultrasound. So now that you understand the criteria of the screening for the abdominal aortic aneurysm, what how do you remember this? Okay. Well, I've got a little useful pneumonic here, but I I need to start with a little clinical high yield aside. What you should know about abdominal aortic aneurysms that's sort of related to this is that any abdominal aneurysm that's greater than 5 and a half centimeters is usually going to need to be repaired surgically. Okay. So this is the high yield point. And the way that I remember that is by because I'm a sports fan I always remember um Terrell Suggs Terrell Suggs. He's a pretty famous NFL player who had a very long career with the Baltimore Ravens and he he wore number 55. And the way that I always thought about this was he was like a hardcore like at times dirty football player who would just punch opposing people right in the gut um when he was doing his job. And the way that I think about this is that you get sugged right in the gut. And sugged reminds me of Terrell Suggs and um Terrell Suggs wore number 55. So getting you know sugged or punched right in the gut reminds me of the abdominal aneurysm and then I kind of relate that to number 55. And that's how I remember that greater than 5.5 cm usually needs surgical repair. So I know that that pneumonic is probably not going to be helpful for most people, but hey, it's something. And then going one step further, the way that I remember the age range of 65 to 75 is because these go in order by 10. So 55, 65, 75. So 55 reminds me that we're looking for 5.5 cm or greater abdominal aortic aneurysms. And then 65 to 75 is the age range where we're going to test for this. If somebody is a male and they've ever smoked. Okay? So if they're male and they've ever smoked, you got to look for this because abdominal aortic aneurysms risk factor. The greatest risk factor is a history of smoking, but being male is a risk factor. And if that's the case, if they smoked ever, they're male, and they're between the ages of 65 to 75, you do an abdominal ultrasound, which you're looking for the aneurysm that's 5.5 cm or larger, in which case it has to be repaired surgically. So 55, 65, 75 reminds me of everything that I need to know. And then just remember if you are a sports fan like me that um Terrell sugs, you get sugged right in the gut. And the gut is where you'll find the abdominal aortic aneurysm. Next screening recommendation is for cardiovascular disease. Okay? And there's a lot of different criteria here. So, this is an opportunity for a test writer to be an and ask you a really sort of tough to remember screening recommendation, but I have a a really useful pneumonic. So, don't get overwhelmed by this, but let's walk through this first. So, we're talking about prophylactic treatment for cardiovascular disease. Basically, the question is whether or not we need to give someone aspirin. So, what are the conditions? Well, if they're between the ages of 50 to 59 and jump down to point C, if they have a greater than 10% 10-year cardiovascular disease risk index and quality uh number D here, letter D, they must not be a high risk for bleeding. And jump down to E, they must have a greater than 10-year life expectancy. If all of that stuff is met, then you give them aspirin. So, I know that that's a lot of different criteria. And how do you remember this? Well, the way that I remember this is that we're talking about giving somebody aspirin. And instead of aspirin, I think about aspirin, the ski slope. And how does this help me? Well, first thing that I do when I think of aspen, and I relate it to the word aspirin, is that we're talking about a ski slope that's 50°. And that's useful because the age range here is 50 to 59. The other thing is that when you're going down this 50° slope in Aspen, the weather outside is 10°, which reminds me that you have to have a greater than 10% 10-year cardiovascular disease risk index, and you must have a greater than 10year life expectancy. So, everything that you need to know about this is right here in our beautiful pneumonic Aspen ski slope because aspirin sounds like aspirin. And of course, this is giving somebody aspirin prophylactically. Aspen, the ski slope is going to be A-50° slope, which should remind you that we're talking about ages 50 to 59. And it's 10 degree weather outside when you're skiing, which should remind you of all the tens. 10% 10-year risk index and greater than 10-year life expectancy. And not being a high risk for bleeding is just obvious. You never want to give somebody aspirin if they're going to bleed. Okay, so that is the screening recommendation from the USPSTF about cardiovascular disease and prophylactically giving aspirin. Let's talk about lung cancer. So lung cancer screening, this has gotten very high yield in recent years on USML and complex. And what do you need to know? Well, the screening here is going to be between ages 55 to 80. And if you meet certain criteria, the way that you'll be screened for this is that you'll get a lowd dose CT. Okay? So, the first thing I need you to memorize is that we're talking about ages 55 to 80. And if you fall into that age range and you meet the criteria, which we'll talk about in just a second, you're going to get a low dose CT. Now, what's the criteria? The criteria is the hardest part to memorize. Um, very very high yield to know this stuff. But there's there's two different criterias that you can meet. The first one is that you have a 30-year pack history of smoking and that you currently smoke. So remember how to calculate your pack year history. You take the number of years smoked and you multiply it by how many packs a day that you smoke and that's your your pack year uh smoking history. And then the second criteria is that you quit within the the past 15 years. So it can be either or. So, if you quit smoking in the past 15 years and you're between the ages of 55 to 80, you get the lowd dose cat scan. If you have a 30-year pack history and you currently smoke, you get the lowd do CT if your age is 55 to 80. So, you got to memorize this. It is so high yield. This comes up all the time. Memorize this criteria. I don't have a good pneumonic for this one, but just memorize it. You're going to get a question on this. I want to wrap up the video by talking about the miscellaneous or random recommendations that you could see questions on that aren't as high yield as the things I've already talked about, but that I'll just mention briefly so that you've seen it once before. So, this is a big list and I'll just go through this quickly. The first one is that you're going to do chlamydia and gorrhea screening for all sexually active women who are 20 age 24 years and younger. So, if they give you that 18-year-old sexually active patient, you do the chlamyia and gorrhea screening, but high yield, you don't do the the cervical cancer screening until age 21. So, chlamydia, gorrhea for all sexually active women aged 24 and younger. Next one, screen for and treat asymptomatic asymptomatic bacteriora in pregnancy. So, this is really, really high yield because if you get a test question about a pregnant woman, you're probably going to, in most cases, not want to give her medication as part of the answer. But, this is an exception to that rule. So, it's very, very high yield. If a pregnant woman has bacteria in her urine, you're going to treat it. So, know this recommendation. It's very, very important. Next one that you probably haven't seen before because it's dentistry, but this does show up. You put fluoride on the primary teeth of children and starting at age six, you give them fluoride supplementation if they live in an area that doesn't have a, you know, the correct number amount of fluoride in the water. Okay, I know that's crazy because you're in med school, not not dental school, but this is something that the USPSTF recommends and therefore you need to know it. Next one. We screen for major depressive disorder between ages 12 to 18. This kind of makes a little bit of sense if you think about it. Imagine a teenager in those very vulnerable years going to their pediatrician. Mom and dad are concerned because maybe they're like a little depressed at home. This is the age range 12 to 18. So kind of in adolescence where you're screening for major depressive disorder. So high yield know that recommendation. Next one. Blood glucose screening for all overweight patients between the ages of 40 to 70. And this this also kind of makes sense. Think about as somebody gets older, once they turn 40, they're getting at increased risk for diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease. So the the best that we could do or I should say the least that we could do as primary care doctors would be to screen them in the office and measure their blood glucose. Okay, ac. Next one, speaking of diabetes, gestational diabetes should be screened at 24 weeks of pregnancy. And I've got a really cool pneumonic for this. If you are familiar with the BMI chart, you know that over a BMI of 24 is considered overweight. So if you think about it at 24 weeks of pregnancy, I always think about diabetes, specifically gestational diabetes. And the way that I remember that is that 24 weeks of pregnancy, 24 on the BMI scale is where you're overweight and therefore at risk of diabetes. So I think of gestational diabetes. So at 24 weeks of pregnancy, you do the glucose tolerance test to screen for gestational diabetes. Next one, prophylactic ocular topical in all newborns to prevent gyneakal athalmia neonatorum. So just memorize it guys. All newborns get the ocular top the ocular topical to prevent the gyneakal infection. Next one. Every patient aged 15 to 65 should be screened for HIV. And this is a little surprising to some people because if you yourself were a patient and you were 16 years old and your pediatrician did not offer you HIV screening then technically they are not following the USPSTF recommendation. So every patient age 15 to 65 should be offered HIV screening. And then our last one is that in anybody who's at increased risk um sexual risk, which basically in a test question will be they have other sexually transmitted infections or they're engaging in like risky sexual behavior, you have to screen for syphilis. Okay. So a classic test question on step two, level two might be that they describe somebody who's like, let's say age 20 and they're engaging in high-risk sexual behavior, right? unprotected sex, multiple partners, drug use, all this stuff that paints a very scary picture for them. And they're going to ask you what tests you should order. And the answer is going to be syphilis, chlamydia, gorrhea, HIV because they're older than age 15, but not cervical cancer if they're not yet age 21. Okay? So, very, very high yield umbrella of information there for high-risisk sexual behavior. Now, guys, girls, that's it. I know that this was a long video. I covered a lot of different recommendations for screening, but this is all incredibly high yield information that you absolutely need to know.