! T-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k- is when a patient comes into the emergency room, let's say it's on your exam, they give you a patient coming into the ED, you don't have x-ray vision, right? You can't just stare at their chest and be like, ah, yes, I see a PE inside of your pulmonary vasculature and then know what to do. In real life, what's happening is you can't give every patient CT angiography because we just don't give everybody CTs. That's not cost effective. It's not safe. So the question is, who do you order the D-dimer for and who do you order the CT angiography for? So this shows up on step two, on level two, on your internal medicine shelf, on your clinical rotations. And that's what the Wells criteria is for. Depending on how they score in Wells criteria, certain patients, you get the CT, certain patients, you can just do D-dimer. And so this score helps stratify risk and determine next steps in your workup. So let's go through the criteria. Unfortunately, if you've been looking at my clinical scale series, you know that in most of, for example, like HasBled, Chad's VASC, the letters all stand for something. But in Wells, that's not the case. So you unfortunately have to recognize or memorize what is used to calculate the score. So the first thing that you're scoring is whether the patient has clinical signs and symptoms of a deep vein thrombosis. So you're going to be looking for that calf pain, that tender calf. If yes, three points. If no, zero points. The next is whether an alternative diagnosis is less likely than a PE. So this is a bit subjective, but if a patient on your exam has buzzwords and findings that are probably more specific to an alternative diagnosis, then in that case, you probably don't score any points here. But if PE is the most likely diagnosis, then you're going to score three points. Again, if you're taking an exam, it's going to be really obvious. They're going to give you the cardinal features of a DVT plus or minus a PE. If they want you to pick something else, they're going to give you buzzwords and findings with very high specificity for something that's not a pulmonary embolism or not a DVT. So if the patient has a heart rate, that's greater than 100, if yes, that's one and a half points, if no, zero points, because usually when you've got a DVT or when you've got a PE, patient will be tacky, especially on exams. On USMLE or CONLEX, this is going to be, I'm going to guess 100% specific to if they want you to identify a PE. The next criteria, pay very close attention to the timeline here. So if the patient has either been immobilized in the past 72 hours or had surgery in the past four weeks, if either one of those are true, that's yes, which equals one and a half points. If no, zero points. Now this is going to be really obvious on your exam. What the test writer will do is they like to go after immobilization. So what they're going to do is they're either going to tell you that the patient had surgery three days ago or five days ago. It'll be obviously within the past four weeks, or they'll give you a patient who took some super long distance trip. And essentially what they're implying is that the patient didn't move or was on an airplane for like 16 hours, something to that effect. It's going to be grossly obvious that they had surgery or that they were immobilized. And usually because it's a 72 hour cutoff for immobilization, but a four week cutoff for surgery, if the test writer is going to be nice, they'll give you within 72 hours, regardless of if they're talking about immobilization or surgery. That said, if you're taking an in-class exam, if you're taking a shelf, they get a little fancy and sometimes they'll give you a surgery that's three weeks old. And you have to remember that surgery technically counts within four weeks. So this is pretty specific. Keep that in mind. The next one is fairly obvious. If the patient has ever had a history of a deep vein thrombosis or a pulmonary embolism, that's one and a half points. The history of DVTPE confers a higher risk of future DVTPE. So if yes, that's one and a half points. The next criteria is if the patient has hemoptysis, if yes, one point, if no, zero points. And then the last thing that you're scoring is malignancy. Now I want to be clear on malignancy. That means either current malignancy, treatment for malignancy within the past six months, or they are palliative. If any of those are true, you give a point. And if none of those are true, the patient gets zero points. So here's the interpretation. You basically go through all of these categories. You come up with the score. And now you have, this is why we do the Wells score, the Wells criteria. What do I do to diagnose or, you know, essentially rule in or rule out DVTPE? So if their score was from one to four, or I should say zero to four, their risk of pulmonary embolism is quote unlikely. The next step, if this patient was being assessed for possible DVTPE would be D-dimer, which of course is just a blood test, right? It's a, it's a lab draw. So because the PE risk is lower and technically unlikely by literature that's looked at this, you can just do the blood test. If the D-dimer on a blood test for a patient who is scoring one to four is positive, then the next step, and this is for those of you who will be taking step two, level two, step three, level three, after the D-dimer is positive, then you get the CTA. But your first step is going to be D-dimer. Alternatively, if you calculate your Wells criteria and the score is five or greater, their risk of PE is likely. And so you don't want to waste time with the D-dimer because if you get the blood test, depending on what that blood test shows, you're going to get the CTA anyway, because their score is so high. In this case, you jump right to the CTA, right? You go right to the CT angiography. Now, some research that has looked at this found that over 20% of patients who went directly to CTA indeed had a diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. And so it's for this reason that a high Wells score, we go right to the CTA and we're less concerned about the potential risks associated with the CT. So when you're taking step two, level two, your shelves, you're on rotations, all you need to remember is that if their score is five or more, you do CTA or you do angiography. And so the way that I've always memorized this is that angio has five letters. If angio has five letters, then five or more points equals angio. And angio is a short way to say CTA or CT angiography. So that is your Wells criteria. Good luck.