if you don't want to text or anything like that. You want to just do it via email which is some of my international people do that. So I'm the most affordable guy on the one. I'm too cheap if anything. So I think that him trying to make a personal attack. I mean it's really just showing his insecurity and his showing the fact that he obviously is in the need to make money. Obviously you know paying your bills and earning a living in this industry is tough. You have to carve a niche out for himself. And next try to be like the bad boy, bad ass guy. He's looking for business obviously and he's looking for a bit. If he asked the best Chris Asito or he asked the best me or he's the best you know Matt Jensen, he'll do it because he figures that people will come to him and he'll take up the slack and he'll get the business. And you know what? That's not the way to do business. The way to get new clients is to show your knowledge, to show the results of what you do and to educate people and let people be attracted to you. I've never put an ad out advertising my services to anyone. I just put knowledge out and why putting knowledge up people come to me. And that's the right way to be a great coach. You know, you're a young guy and you've got a lot to learn in this industry. Putting someone like me down is the stupidest thing you can do because so many people will lose respect to you. And that's because people do respect me for my knowledge and for my honesty. And if you don't like my honesty, call me up directly and tell me hey Dave, you know, I'm pissed off, you mentioned you've dashed my pride, you said it and you know, we'll discuss it. And I'll tell you all the reasons why I don't think it works and you can still sell and people still buy it. I probably made you more sales because I put down you're probably because people don't care, they'll try anything. You know that. But I will not stop telling the truth and I will not stop educating people and I will not stop putting out knowledge because that's what I like to do and that's what I'm here to do. And not everyone agrees with it. And that's fine. The good opinion of others is not important to me because I know that I affect large amounts of people out there and hopefully I'm trying to keep the people in our sport healthier. I obviously know bodybuilding kind of theaters that line between, you know, being super healthy and being unhealthy. And I think that there's a right way to do things and I think there's a way to keep yourself healthy so that you can live a long life and you can still enjoy the benefits and the excitement of being a top level bodybuilder. Having said that once again, you know, I'm a big believer in the fact that the truth should be told at all times, okay, whether we like it or not and next, if you want to come on and you want to do another interview with me and we want to clear the air on in front of everyone else. I have no problem doing that either because I really, I have nothing but good things to say about you. You're talented guy. You know, I think you have potential to do a lot of good stuff in our industry. But you have to learn that you know, people do not like to be taken to damage them. And while you could create a product that has a lot of hype and might sell, it doesn't work and it doesn't do what you're claiming, eventually people will lose all trust in you. And that's not the way to have a successful future in this sport. You might make some short-term money but it's not going to be successful for you long term. Day full on them with another Rxmas olAvA.

S Satisfied大家看中了就是覺得 Platz我覺得真有紅色唯一其實真的很麻煩我們現在要去那次來改革獻成ụ有小雕像絕對付你任愛 Tetris最堡使你比取了長次你的學生就可以了讓前方登場上被研究記得你按ientos小雕像一隻鳥陸還是女人 July 17 成了進入逐步再來Way快死一名險 Оп完幹完今天來好今天梁慧幹完以來陪人破壞為何我們繼續热套外防係贏彤兩個人參選了三年、九十年地名掌而且還美國B深尺多只 Cóct Cause離開別運獲成 Musi,連大家欠大家來全 ситу案就是,�潆詠奇律國者會 Yoda與生日之神的於將在大陸的密切為什麽暫ém的匯弱夏隊又將在領導戰致把機械想游尋傳的 justice改成 obed衣和當下在卡錫歷史院部協助一般的問題就這是一份 Kushner Vion並非於它負責便宜等於直至到任班但即如你cap他們那裡被 attending沙水的時候下映過了很多迷口的字道德威嚼逑我們一會一起正確 2007 YooA&FanMony,我想聽聽視頻試試對這個第一個仲華廟�paralme困難是兩個跟兩個 一個其實你們幾少 switching幾少背空森靜然後比 rele 的概念繼續我brahim我突破了玩具的安排前面是全部用淘汰通的有一個,最有一個見面最多地讓,故意曆見給暈混蛋在裡面要你把上去你把一個鈣散意一個東西剛才開始被暈你為什麼不只回就把這個注定方面?你的失敲你真是失敲你真的不是你的panels呢?這是下廢話吧К 無道理的你可以 défin一些改良謠言的這麼多一種人誒頭這好像如何越能êm立的是差不多因為除止如果我的 collapses下廢技能 sacr體重把現實上地施被壓這些問題都是履歉式的不好結果這些問題根本不進入大家幾名人他傻弓你們能使用 5 人他剛才被獻拇搬如果你們要回去你們有的解決能不能夠出舵拍了 medical holiday遊夢後拿出來讓對連親通盡工作認為是他的很大的好想他我要冥好很多比較困難簡單到一宴繪相先為大家一個 Patrick我 harsh了 brackets是一方面用三個巧克力 quantum那麼我覺得시면我贏我一點這是講關ちょっと所以他說想那一句嘗試就一語兩個人把修يف掉打開界反正取緩所以他用光筆олов釬退上所有YouTube channel, let's go to the first few questionsOf course from the day below experienceapp, first question, three meals with carbs3 shakes without carbsWhen I add carbs next, do I add to shakes with something like oats150 carbs of 150 grams carbs dailyYou want to know where to add the carbs to?I am assuming?YesAnywhere, that's what I mean有很多人, a lot of guys that only give carbs有什麼味道, they like to have it with their food所以, I'll give them on the food meals that they're reading during the dayWe add rice and potatoesIs it like that?Some guys like to drink their carbsSo on those guys, I'll give it to them in the shakesWe'll give them a carbolized shake or carboline or whatever, they happen to like Hymolecularly like a little way carbolidizedWe'll put it there and the meals will stay without the carbsSo it doesn't matter where you put it Or you can just divide it equally Overall, your meals If you really want to, it doesn't matterIt really doesn't, because you've got to look at glycogen storage in the muscleIt's like a gas tank in your carb Giving you this analogy before To take is not fullIt's empty Or it's on the empty or side No matter when you put the carbs into the tank You're just filling the tank up It's only when the tank is full And you're trying to jam extra stuff And then you get spill over And the spill over in a person's body gets stored as body fat They've let me just clarify I'm essentially my fault So basically what he wants is no is Let's say he wants to add carbs to his shakes That's why he goes on to ask What are the alternatives Like oats, what else would you particularly advise You know that in carbs Yeah, two machines I used a lot of liquid carbs Back in my day there was ultra fuel From twin lab we used a little bit of gain Or a gain rate A gain rate never really likes It's kind of just pure sugar And gain rate doesn't have a lot of carbs And it's kind of very dilute I used a lot of ultra fuel I used grape juice sometimes There really was no carb powders That really were any good They were mostly just sugar So the best ones I found at the time Was the twin lab's ultra fuel I liked a lot Nowadays If you get to add carbs I would probably add like I said Like a carbalyze, a carbalyze Or a targo Something like that If you're looking for something a little more substantial That's not going to break down So quickly because those carbs shakes Get absorbed really quick If you want something that's going to be more sustaining You can certainly blend up oatmeal in there I'm going to tell you something about raw oatmeal And I do a lot of raw oatmeal in my shakes But I would make egg shakes with the oatmeal I would blend it in and I told you that before oatmeal that's not cooked It's just blended in a blender It's very abrasive When it comes out of your other end So to speak Because you might get a little Sometimes you can get like bloody down there Because it irritates your The anal tissue is down there Because it's really like sandpaper in a sense When you cook oatmeal It softens it up and you don't get that same abrasive from it So have that keep or keep that in mind When you're doing that You might want to use fruit Some people use bananas Because they're calorie dense Papaya You can use pineapple I got it to crazy pineapple stage for a while Because I had red and sourdicle About pineapple having good digestive enzymes in there And I was putting a lot of pineapple in my shakes So I varied it around in the off season Depending on what my mood was Because what happens is I'm the kind of guy They can do the same thing every single day And then one day I just say you know what I want different And then I'll do that for like three months in a row So go by what you want If you want to vary it fine If you don't want to vary it You happen to have one specific carbs source That you like better than those It's fine Most carbs are carbs Like I said If you're going for an oatmeal Which is a longer acting or a low glycemic carb You're going to get a more sustained energy release from it But understand that you could get some negative repercussions When you're when you're pooping it out Especially when you're doing a lot of Of oatmeal during the day Second question again from the deep Well, a more experienced app What is the exact mechanisms that provide health benefits From your fiber-lice And what is the optimal amount of fiber per day? All right, the optimal amount of fiber is is a skewed question I'll tell you why because Sillyam Okay Which is a It's just a form of a soluble fiber that we get you know in plants On a gram for gram basis So if you take one gram of Sillyam To one gram of opin Okay, which is usually one of the most naturally high Naturally occurring high sources of soluble fiber Sillyam is eight times more potent So one gram of Sillyam is equal to eight grams of like opin So you need a lot less Sillyam per day To get the same benefits you would get from eating like three bowls of oatmeal Which is why I use a very high-sual rate Sillyam in fiber-lice That's one of the benefits of it So you could take if you're taking it I think each fiber-lice shake has eight grams of Sillyam in it So if you're getting two shakes a day that's 16 grams of Sillyam You got a bolt on that pie that times eight That tells you how much real fiber effectiveness you're getting That's a lot Okay If you were to eat it in food So it's easier to take a fiber shake And then just add a little bit extra fiber to your day So fiber-lice has a gram of Insoluble fiber And one eight grams of Sillyam fiber That's nine grams So you look at it about 18 grams of fiber Most of it's coming from Silly If you're not using Sillyam you probably need like I said More like 60 grams of fiber But then again it's a lot harder to figure out the fiber in foods Than it would be from a shake So my suggestion is to take a constant source of fiber like a Sillyam based supplement Now a lot of people will say you know Dave I just I noticed When I use your fiber-lice it's way more potent And it does it does better things for me Than just taking like a metamusyl A sugar-free metamusyl or buying just pure Sillyam husk Why is that? And I answered this before but I'll say it again The Sillyam fiber absorbs water That's why it's called Sillyable It swells The amount of Sillyam in this Sillyam will dictate how potent it is And how much what kind of an effect it has on the colon The more it swells The more the colon has to work the push it through It becomes like Jello inside your colon And inside your intestinal tract And that's good because it makes the muskule cure contract on it It makes the digestive system work And that's what you want to do You want to get that muskule cure of the colon and small intestine in good shape Like to muscle You want to train it essentially Whereas some lot of Sillyam's out there because they're cheaper They get low-swall rate Sillyam's That have the some of the benefits of having use of fiber supplement Like lowering LDL cholesterol And alkalinizing the colon But they don't have the same effect on on really training the colon And getting it in good shape and moving waste through is effectively So people will say, you know what I'm going to take fiber I move my bowels I empty myself so much better high-swall rate That's what that does However you can get the health benefits of like an LDL cholesterol Lowering effect from any kind of a Sillyam based supplement Also When you take a Sillyam based fiber supplement It feeds the gut bacteria So the bacteria that live in your colon and your small intestine They feed off of soluble fiber They actually ferment it for energy And when they ferment it they release short chain and medium chain facts It actually go back and tell the liver stop producing glucose Okay because the liver is like constantly cranking glucose out Whether it be the gluconeogenesis Or whether it be mobilizing stored glycogen from the liver Into the bloodstream as glucose If you can slow that mechanism down You slow how much insulin you release out And you slow the rate at which you might store fat So lower insulin levels better from fat burning So a good fiber supplement will help with weight loss Because it keeps blood sugar levels lower Because it prevents the liver from cranking out so much glucose And that's something that happens all the time But if you can slow that by taking a good fiber supplement That's another benefit Obviously alkalinizing the colon Another really good effect If the colon is more alkalinized The immune system in the colon works better Less likely a chance of getting a of getting rogue cancer cells growing And then replicating themselves The immune system is functioning well It can eat up those rogue cancer cells And get rid of them immediately The immune system is sluggish in that area Because the colon is stagnant And very acidic That's going to be a problem So there's many many different benefits of taking in a fiber On a soluble level And an insoluble level supplement And until you use one You won't necessarily understand what I'm talking about But once people try fiber-lice And I've sent a newmerable tubs out the people Especially some of the top level body balls Who have complaints they've had You know problems with bloating in the stomach And they're not able to empty their mouths properly Especially before a show And they've tried it and they were like holy macro I know I know May rest of these Luke sand That was a big fiber-lice user So if you want to talk to anyone I was called Guy Sistineeno That's a big customer or a mine But it's important It's something that we don't like to talk about But if you're eating eight times a day You've got to make sure you're pushing all that waste out of your body And fiber is really that important Now I'm laughing because when we were all in the New York office Together I remember seeing some of the orders And it's like Wow So on a so-called For a life-really-less fiber-lice user That's what I've been saying Like fiber-lice We know how it works Let's go to the Instagram questions again If you're not following this It's official underscore RX muscle Got a lot of good questions But again, if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube Hit the subscribe button below If you like what you're watching Hit the like button Comment obviously that helps sound a lot If there's some suggestion Anything anything you want to see on this show Or any of other shows comment below As always we appreciate all of York's support It's going to clash with Paul Does a bodybuilder with a short torso Have an advantage in building a thick back compared to someone with a long torso There's advantages and disadvantages The short torso person will have Usually has lower connecting latch So it looks like they'll have to go right into their waistline I had that kind of a back development Because I have a short torso The negative on a short torso however Is the fact that Your abdominal region is crunched down So when you have a ton of muscle a lot of times It's easier to get that bubble gut It's phenomenal I'm going on because there's nowhere You're not spreading out your your abdominal muscles Sure overall longer period of time If you look at guys that long torso They usually don't have the gut problems Or or detention problems Because their their waistline is spread out over A much greater surface area So but those guys sometimes have short Attached latch And then they have a big gap between their their bottom of their lat And their waistline Not everyone Not everyone but some guys do So it's you know There's not such thing as perfection You either have one gift And one disadvantage And then you have another gift and another disadvantage So the grass is not always green or on one side You you dealt the deck of cards that you're you dealt And then you got to try to maximize what you have I had a short torso So I tried to maximize the amount of muscle I can put on my body to look like I had a lot of mass of my body But I had a you know, fight the you know the the bloating you know gut issue As I got bigger and bigger and bigger Because there was no place for all that muscle to go Now that I've lost you know a lot of muscle Purposely over the years Um my stomach's flat You don't even see it anymore Because I just don't have as much muscle anymore It's spread now I don't have to now I have less down there And I have like almost no no waistline But it really it's you know Our physics are amazing things They're so resilient our bodies They can change and reshape themselves And it's finding that perfect balance between too much and too little This is a question It's almost as if somebody heard a conversation from yesterday day Yesterday we were talking about Interviewing some of the up and coming amateurs Right like people love to hear about The you know newcomer someone who's trying to make their way But the whole ranks classic physique Nash actually just gave us a great idea and possibly our next show Dave would you ever consider doing a show on your channel where viewers and amateurs So I guess we'll say Lessils just tilted towards the amateur bodybuilder Those competing in the NPC Looking at eventually get their pro card Send you their pictures of their physique Or video what have you for you to critique I would do it But then I would I would have always people hating me Because you know I would just give it to you No I would do it that's fine I think it's a good idea actually You know I can give you my opinion Which is just an opinion It doesn't mean it's it's it's It means that much Obviously I've been in the sport a long time I can give you my my my got instinct If on what I think the person needs to work on And what what their strengths and the weaknesses are Obviously people who can't take criticism Wouldn't be sending in their pictures So that's a good thing But people wanted to do that I think we could do it for sure I think that it might be interesting You know sometimes I nail it Right sometimes I'm wrong completely You know and you don't know But I think that You know I know a lot of the fans like to know What the experts think about the upcoming crop And how they're going to do potentially in the future Usually stars you can kind of see right away If the guys that are the sleepers The ones that their bodies are late Blumers that sometimes you can miss You think wow they look alright But I don't know And then all of a sudden they They gain 30 pounds of muscle one year And they look completely different person That's the kind that's what happened to my physique I really didn't look that great in 92 And then from 92 to 94 I made like a 20 pound jump And then from 90 you know from 94 to 95 I made another 30 pound jump So that was 50 pounds in 2 years I don't think people expected that So I surprised a lot of people who Kind of gave me one critique And then they changed their mind when they saw that But not many people do that So yeah I'd be open for it Joe Denky how many times a day Should you drink apple cider vinegar Second what's the best probiotic I suffer from a distended stomach Yeah I don't know if the probiotics In a solid distended stomach Probably the fiber-liced product would help a lot more But I do agree that a probiotic is certainly helpful If you don't want to use a probiotic foods Like you can use like bubbly sour crowd Or like a coconut keafier If you don't want to do that And maybe you're dieting You don't want to add extra cows You can buy natrin NATR-EN makes a really good probiotic A powder probiotic That's what we were refrigerated They make one They're bifitow And they're lactobacilly I think one is for the small intestine One is for the large intestine Because remember we had different bacteria Collinies in different areas of the body And so you can buy by both We have both in my refrigerator home, my wife bought it And I'll use one one day And the other day if I'm feeling like my I might be out of whack Maybe I took a course of antibiotics or something like that And I feel like maybe my bacteria Some of the good bacteria got wiped out I'll use those Those seem to work really well I mix them right into my fiber-liced shape I think the fiber in the fiber-liced shape is the food for the bacteria So we might as well just put the bacteria into the food Mix it around I go up and down and let them have that It seems to work really quickly When I do get feel a little run Because sometimes you can take like Let's say you're on augmenting for instance For 10 to 14 days By day five or six You might start getting diarrhea And that's because now the good bacteria have been killed in addition to the bad bacteria So there's nothing protecting your gut lining So you put those new bacteria back in there By taking the probiotic With the fiber supplement And then all of a sudden it recedes your colon And your end or your small intestine And then all of a sudden the diarrhea stops And it's pretty dramatic It happens you could stop it with an end day Or so if you had a good probiotic in there Well it's going to be 120 And you made it a video of a day A couple of weeks ago Or it may have been a part of an nasty episode Where you talked about I guess Men who struggle to get up post cycle And what they could do Well this question Relays specifically to finasteride He says that his hair is starting to grow back One in a day, down side Sex drive One away Any suggestions on how to fix this You know Some DHT is necessary for your sex drive So if you're if you're if you're flat lining Your DHT too much with finasteride It could certainly affect your sex drive My suggestion a lot of times The guys who are having hair loss problems And or at the problems Is trying like a product like my finaster Like Testolize product first Because that will lower DHT levels Because it has natural DHT blockers in there But it won't lower So extreme like finasteride does Try that if that works Then you're good to go Then you're they don't even have to take the drug Because finasteride has side effects And a lot of people I take finasteride I've talked about it I've taken it for 25 years I don't have any side effects I never did It doesn't bother me It doesn't I don't have any sexual side effects I don't have any other weird ones I don't have any other people report So for me it works But for other people They may get side effects So it doesn't it's not warranted But they use it in that case Try a product like Testolize I think you'll get just as good as a result I'm a naturally high DHT converter I always knew this Because I always looked at my blood work And saw how high my DHT levels work Even on just DHT On all of everything I have high DHT levels Now When I got my DNA tested If you remember I talked about that Maybe about six months ago I had the DNA testing done Probably a year ago And I'm a very high converter Of DHT Of course this DNA testing Which is ironic Because it confirmed what I already knew And it also showed I was a low estrogen Aromatizer Which I already knew So Just because I see my blood work all the time So that kind of confirmed In my mind That you know what I need finasteride I'm on no HRT now I don't take anything Maybe an educational HCCH G-Shot And my DHT levels On finasteride 2.5 milligrams a day Are still just in the normal range They're not low Which tells you if I wouldn't be on that They would be probably through the roof I happen to convert a lot of test That my natural testosterone Or inject the testosterone Into finasteride Which means my five-alpha reductase Ends I'm system is high Which is probably why I had a lot of acne Is a kid And why I had hair loss as I got older Okay And my dad had prostate problems So I've been since I've been taking finaster For the last 25 years I'm hoping that I have averted the prostate issue Because I kept my DHT levels in normal range For so long Remember prostate will grow In response to high DHT Over the long period A long period of time It doesn't happen in the week So the fact that I've kept it low For so many years I'm hoping that I have averted that problem And that's why we do DNA testing That's why we check blood works So that we can see what our own individual Propensity are genetically speaking for different diseases And different disease processes If you can identify what you don't do well And what you do do well Then you could avoid the things you shouldn't be putting in your diet They're going to make you like I have zero Cointed DNA testing I have zero ability to digest lactose I already knew that Because I drink any milk or I take anything with that Because I get diarrhea from it But if I had known that earlier When I was born My parents would have tested my DNA I would have stayed away from my whole life These are the advantages of our children I'm going to test all my kids DNA to see what they're good at What they're not good at What I should keep them away For what I should put them in towards Or what foods they handle And they don't handle That's the advantage of technology We had this at our disposal now Hopefully you guys will use it as well We are up against the time But we have a lot of good questions We're going to see how many we could squeeze in here This one's from Emmett and Xuski How to keep balance during the back Double-by-separate pose I tend to lose my balance sometimes Yeah That's a common thread And no one ever really showed me how to pose It's funny We were talking, I was talking posing with Melvin Anthony When I interviewed a couple weeks ago And we were saying how on the west coast Guys really get into posing There's a lot of coaches They go into the posing room They have the gyms, especially gold's Venice People put a lot of emphasis on posing On the east coast Right group In New York Training is the most important thing Everyone trains hard core Everyone knows the east coast Guys squad dead lifted Do all the hard clothes No one talks about posing It's kind of like a lost art form there So I had a tough time learning how to pose I had to teach myself and learn by trial and error One of the things I learned is when you do In a back double-by-separate And you're putting one leg back The one leg that you put back Which ever leg it happens to be It doesn't matter There should be no weight on that You're not leaning back on that leg All the weight is on the front leg You're almost standing on that one front leg And balance There's no weight being put on that back leg The back leg is a pivot leg It's just touching the ground to keep you from falling From keeping you balance And if you do that It will enable you to flex that glute and hamstring That you put back If you have all you weight back on it When you try to flex that glute and hamstring It's not going to happen And you're going to fall down Or you're going to feel like you're off balance Because it's just not stable Remember all the weight on the front leg You're leaning forward And you're just pivoting on that back leg And just lightly flexing the glute and hamstring If you're in shape You will see Strations in the glutes And you'll see why you're in your hamstrings If you're not, I don't care how hard you flex that leg You're not going to see anything And that's the way it works But the key is not to put your weight on the leg That you put back It's to keep all your weight forward on that The leg that's, you know, that's the fur of this bat That it's excuse me On the leg that's closest to your body Let's go to black belt body building cripple The other side of the leg that's not confident Are you that the Olympia will remain in Vegas this year Do you think it might be moved to another state Because of restrictions I don't think anything's a short thing in 2020 So I wouldn't put my money on anything You know, I asked Stan Salman I had heard of Roman They were going to move it a couple weeks ago And he kind of laughed at me But I think that they're pretty much set on doing it in Vegas The thing is, well, they have to wear masks Because you remember the show we just saw this past week The show is a show that we're going to see in Vegas Everyone was on that, that's the next up on stage That would be terrible if they had to do that in December Maybe not so much for the guys But especially for the girls who, you know, beauty is part of the whole presentation Especially with figure and bikini and wellness So that's something to think about But I think we're going to see the show in Vegas I think that if they held it in Florida Obviously there would be a lot more leniency In terms of who can come and watch the show How many people you can have in the arena for the show But I think at this point they've put so much into it I know they were just out there in Vegas Looking at the planet fitness and everything like that I can't see them moving at this point I was going to, I have to be a tenacity Good friend of the show What can someone experience when signing up for your monthly coaching service If you can give as much details possible He's considering signing up within the next three to six months So I guess from the start in terms of his consultation To the beginning steps And into Vegas gradually the routine that you take your clients through Yeah, what was it for the yearly or for the toughest prep I figured what he asked about I mean he just said signing up within three to five months I have a couple different packages You know, all coaches offer different packages You know, what I do is when I first started with a new person I have the I usually ask them for their goals So in other words, what's your current goals? You know, what's the time frame on those goals And in other words, you want to lose weight over the next 16 weeks You want to put muscle on over the next six months I want to see pictures of what they look like now If they've done a show, I would like to see pictures of what they look like on stage To see what they look like in shape I want to know what they're eating now I want to know what supplements they're doing And I want to know what they're using gear I want to know what gear they're taking Or they have taken in the past So I have kind of a background information Sometimes people who are a little more, I have a lot of people have medical issues And I have complications Sometimes I'll get on a phone call with them Just to kind of get an idea of their story They're back story, what we're dealing with Whether the injuries or diseases they have Or whatever the case their restrictions may be I also ask people for what foods they don't like If they're allergic to anything And then I construct the plan based around what their goals are And their timeframes Once I send over the program they can They send me that questions and answers And I'll answer the questions And we go back up what this many times is necessary One of the great things about my coaching programs They get the person has unlimited access To ask me questions whenever they want With certain plans they can text me And call me whenever they want Some plans it's just all through email Really depends on what the person chooses I try to make myself as available as possible The good thing about me is I'm up on that Doing answering emails and working So very rarely do I have a problem getting back to someone You know I always tell people if I don't get back to you the same day With an update you know that you send me Send me a text message right away Because that means I probably didn't get it I get probably upwards of over 300 emails a day And then I'm answering on a regular basis And that's not even including spam emails And so sometimes one slips through the cracks Or it just doesn't make it you know Never I always tell people don't take it personally Don't think that I didn't respond to something like that Or I'm ignoring you I don't ignore everyone Actually another friend of mine said to me Why are you hire other coaches to work on you Like some of these other gurus do It'll take a lot of the workload off you And I say well you know The second I stop answering my own text Three emails is it loses the exclusive this Of working with Dave Palombo Now you're just working with some other guy That's you know that's not what I'm about When I can't handle any more clients I put a cutoff and I say I can't work with you I have too many people that's all Luckily for me I'm able to handle a larger amount of people Because I've been doing this a long time And so that's how it works It's nothing that complicated obviously I have people send me updates You know every two usually every two to three days And we've been a changes of necessary If we're down to like the ladder the wire Before a show a lot of times I'm getting updates every single day So it really depends on you know On the situation in the circumstances For a couple of more questions Go to TJ that gent To the different kind of question Dave I'm having done a surgery My doctor blow out Pretty recommendation I've already cleaned out Using gear this year Didn't really want to again he says I need to come over three weeks prior And after surgery Is that necessary Can I TRT through it to help keep games Or should I just come off completely I mean as far as gear goes You could probably stand a low dose HRT If you wanted to like a 100 milligrams a week If you really really wanted to I would personally just for two weeks before the show I would come off everything You're not going to crash into each anyway And then after the surgery You can go back on HRT Just say that you don't your blood pressure is not higher And then it normally is And that you know just for that purpose Really the more important thing Is going off nutritional supplements Take no nutritional supplements Two weeks before surgery Because a lot of those increase I'm not having time and we'll make you bleed I've told the story already When I first got my dinosaur surgery We didn't even know about that And I was bleeding like crazy Because I was on fish oil and vitamin E And all the things that we now know are anti-quagolants Matter of fact when I had one of my shoulders The second one that I forgot to stop Say things up and it stopped at six days out You would think that would be enough But I had a lot of bleeding issues I actually needed a blood transfusion Because I lost so much blood during that surgery The first one I did I stopped two weeks before I didn't have any problems So I'm going for a colonoscopy on the 25th I think I stopped all supplements Because I'm afraid of going there And they got to snip out like a polyp or something like that I don't want to stop bleeding I'm a bleeder Because I take a lot of fish oil I take a lot of vitamin E I take all the supplements They can actually keep your blood thin And prevent you from clotting Which is good when you're not getting surgery Because you don't want to throw cloths in your bloodstream Especially with COVID going around Which increases clotting Also those supplements are very healthy to take But when you're going to go for a known surgery You certainly don't want to be on nutritional supplements That may increase bleeding time So I highly recommend you stay off all Nutritional supplements for two weeks before the surgery Last one And I'm not sure if you have given this real serious thought Or if this will spark some thought And what I want to know Well Dave still be driving our ex muscle hard In his 60s Like he does now Does he have a retirement goal I thought I was retired already No, just kidding You know what I'm a workaholic As long as I'm enjoying what I'm doing I'm going to I will keep going strong with it And you know what as long as I can keep evolving What we're doing here And that's the key And said you've been with me a long time now As long as we can constantly keep evolving What we're doing And making it better and different And running rolling with the times In other words What the latest technology is And employing it to its fullest I think we will I'll do this probably till You know I don't even know what's going on Any more tool I'm in a mental institute Or whatever All day I chop Because I enjoy doing this I enjoy educating And I think the great thing about the mind Is the mind the body may fall Part of the mind lasts a lot longer So as long as I'm of same mind You know and we can come up with with good content And I can help showcase the bodybuilders And a positive way And make sure that the truth is being Told to our bodybuilding audience And to the people who are watching around the world Then I'm doing my job And I feel like I'm giving back You know that's the key It's it's constantly educating The next generation The next generation The next generation And you can never have too many people being educated Because there's just not enough information Out there right now There's no schools There's no schools The people can go to the learn stuff That we're talking about here And the bodybuilders Always on the cutting edge And the cost of the latest technologies too So what the general public finds out today We knew 10 years ago And that's the truth And I had that sort of eye enjoy I like being on the cutting edge Just not to the Pro one's too long I did research One year with a professor at my college I stayed over the summer We did research on Muscle development in chickens And how thyroid hormone affects that And one of the most fascinating things I found out about that was When I found out that the stuff that we were actually writing Scientific papers about Was stuff that no one else knew In other words, this research This professor was doing Was discovering things that no one had ever known before I was so excited That I said I didn't know That's what we're doing here He's a kid People don't know about this This is new This is new frontiers were forage We're finding out things about how thyroid hormone interacts With the body And it is responsible for how muscles develop In chickens which can be applied over the body Those Matter of fact, when I was working there In that summer of 89 I think it was They had furt just named Or had just recently named the hormone IGF1 It was like growth factor One, it had originally been called somatic heat So metamate and see They really didn't know exactly how it worked But they found that thyroid hormone When you're developing Increase the IGF1 release Which this is when you're developing As a member go And a young chicken So to speak And if you don't have enough thyroid hormone You don't produce enough IGF1 You don't develop the muscle On the level of the correct amount That you normally would So thyroid hormone is very important Because of its interaction with IGF1 So this is something that no one had ever known Before before this particular professor Dr. King figured this out So that was super exciting for me So that's why I get excited about Giving you guys new information That's being told I like breaking it down In a way that you can understand it Rather than just reading a scientific paper That you really don't know what it means And that's why I'm going to continue doing this Probably toll on who knows 100 years old I hope So there you have it There you have it there's your answers For all the rumors on this show That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave Reminder Tomorrow early tomorrow We're going to drop the interview with Antoine But yeah, of course coming off is one of the California Pro You address a lot A lot of different things They vary very thorough conversation So you're not going to want to miss that again If you're not already following us Please subscribe But in the below if you like what you're watching Hit the like button Comment below Obviously it helps us And as always Thank you for your support For Dave Blumbo And I'm producer Tyler Schore I'm so thankful We'll see you next time

After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. while we live on more detail. To borrow more information, you need to check when you can read all the information down here. You could ask another question to me, but I have been saying what everybody does though. What we do is we just buy a box before we use the WTA and go to campus. going to have revirations, permutations, whatever you want to call it, going all the way into December. And that is seven times a year. Olympia Philheb committing to do the Olympia, make the big shock announcement last Friday. Yeah. I mean, we all speculated that this would be a really good move for Phil. I need nowhere as head was at. I mean, but let's face it. I mean, during these COVID times, no one's doing great in business, maybe Jay color, but no one else is doing great. So I can't imagine Phil's killing it. He can't really do that in appearances. And so before I'll pay to, you know, and winning your eighth sand now, you're stock through the roof. I mean, plus he's also now Danny Garcia's manager now and the rock and Danny just bought the XFL football league and they're planning the rock, one of those games called, they're calling them the whatever the games that they're doing on our whole plan. Athletic kind of excuse me is going to be next year now. So Phil's got a good team behind him there and they're willing to promote him. So I guess winning another Olympia would certainly race his stock through the roof. And like I said, you know, when you take a year off sometimes and you disappear, people forget, it seems like now Phil's like the savior coming back to save body building until he's got a better, I guess, fan base behind him now as opposed to people were looking, they wanted to see him lose when he was seven times a year now that he's coming back. It's like I was like, people want to see if he can win a, you know, that's the fickle nature when it comes to greatness, right? I mean, you have someone who won the Olympia seven times and you know, you can very well argue that he in many ways transformed into having that that villain role, right? We talked about this when I interviewed Phil earlier this year or last year, either Dubai, I'm also showing he talked about the comparison between him and LeBron James and, you know, assuming that villainous role, right fans are rooting for you to feel. Right now, you know, I was not in he finds himself in a position where fans are rooting for him, rooting for him to do well. Of course, you know, all that's a stake is that he has a chance to tie a hanging and Coleman with eight Mr. LeBron tiles. That's something I just wanted to get a quick thought on you because that is something that we talked about last year. How important was that to fill the comeback and see if he could tie and get onto that Mount Rushmore? I know Phil would say, oh, it doesn't matter. I have seven wins already, but let's say Phil's a very competitive guy. There's no way he doesn't want to, no, I don't think he's that thinking eight. I think he wants nine. He wants to be the king of the rules so that people won't say, well, he's just as good as, no, they want to say he was the best Mr. LeBron if he was the most wins. And, you know, if he wins this year, there's no way he's not coming back to the next year I think he can't win. So he could win ten times, you know, we don't know. I mean, we don't know like what's going to happen these next couple years. So if you can get back on top and his body looks good and he's healthy, there's no reason why he can't win a couple more times. This year, we didn't even know who's going to show up this year, basically. Obviously, if he lost this year, would be huge bloated. But I don't think he could, you know, I don't think he could be, I don't think him coming back has any negative connotations except to Zego if he doesn't win, but it's only good for business, you know, for him and for the Olympia. And then if somehow Sean Rodin settles his case before that, and we see a rematch between those guys, that's going to be, you know, that's going to be grounds for one of the best Olympias. Well, that's not also forget waiting in the wings, the defending, Mr. Olympia, champion and branding carrier, he's going to have something heavy to say on December. So, let's start on that. As we go to the first two questions, of course, in the day-plumbo experience, the first question, Dave, you on, you increased both on heavy muscle radio said that you don't think, Phil Headsmith's session can or will improve for the 2020 Olympia. The question is, why do you say that critics of Rurali Winkler previously labeled him as a bubble gut and now people often refer to him as someone who is living proof that you can reverse a bubble gut, are you assuming the reason Phil has to stension is different than the reason that Rurali did? I don't think that Phil's main problem is the distension because you can control that could be just the fiber supplement, will fix the distension and controlling himself on stage. He's got a lot of muscle on a small, not necessarily a big frame, he's cartoonish, but he doesn't have super wide plavicles. He has his waist has gotten thicker over the years as the rest of him has gotten thicker. The problem is he doesn't have a large space to spread it out on, like, I say, a J-color or Rurali Winkler. Rurali's super wide bone structure wise. Phil is not, he's just around. He's going to have a tougher time with that, especially on the standing and the lacks poses, but it doesn't matter because he really almost beat everyone, even with the problems he was having. I don't see anyone better than that Olympia. Rurali would be the only guy to give him run for his money and Rurali is a couple of years all the now too. We don't even have Rurali in the show. I just don't think that anyone's that close. The Phil Rurali just happened to be right there with him waiting for Phil to kind of just not show up at his best and that's why Rurali won, but Rurali didn't win by a mile. I don't think that Phil has to be that much better. He just has to maybe work on controlling the midsection using a good fiber, self-inkeep, everything flat when he's on stage so that no one can complain about that. But he doesn't have any weaknesses. He doesn't have any torn body parts, so to me, he's an easy way and if he shows up at his best. The second question again from the day below experience, that Dave, I'm always hungry, even when not dieting and have low leptin levels, so there's any way to increase this. So increases in leptin levels. Yeah, the problem is that having high leptin doesn't mean you're going to have less appetite, even though leptin is the hormone that reduces appetite, they've actually found in studies that obese people have the highest amount of leptin in their body, which doesn't make sense because why they was hungry and eating. Well, because their sensitivity to leptin is low. In other words, their receptors for leptin are not there. So they have all this leptin hormone and the body keeps releasing more and yet it's not working. So the key is to increase leptin sensitivity and receptors so that your body can respond to your leptin. Actually, the lipolice fapper that I saw from species nutrition has one of the ingredients, it's a leptin sensitizer and that's why a lot of people like it because it kills your appetite and it doesn't really kill your appetite. What it does is it restores it to normal because it enables you to react and respond to the leptin that your body is releasing. And that's important. I think a lot of people don't realize that you know, leptin is not the answer. It's the leptin receptivity that's important in the body. Same thing with insulin. You can have enough insulin in your body, but you still can have high blood sugars because you just don't have enough insulin receptors. So your receptivity is low. And that's the important thing. Let's go to our Instagram questions again. If you're not following this on Instagram, our handle is official underscore RX muscle and again, you're working us for the first time. Yeah, because a lot of people ask me how can they submit questions? Well, that's the best way. Explain to people the best way to submit questions and when to post. So every Wednesday, generally, we record the show on Wednesdays. In the morning, we post basically the post that says, as Dave, though, we're filming today, that's where you have your chance to ask a question. That's, that's 95% of it. So I mean, I'll be giving you one. I just DM us a question if this during the course of the week, go right ahead. We can put that on the pile as well. But those are the two ways that we take questions for this show. And again, if you're not already following it, subscribe to us on YouTube. Hit the subscribe button below. Hit the notification button. Not going to miss any of our upcoming shows segments. A lot of you see to talk about now, you know, I mean, that who knows who could be next. So, you know, we're going to have reaction videos, go roar and all sorts of fun leading all the way between now and December. I'll finish the episode. We advertise said, if you don't subscribe to the channel, you don't get the notification. You're going to miss the sale. And a lot of these sales were sold out in an hour or two after, you know, if we do a species nutrition like sale, where I have some short data product or something like that. So if you want to know when we're doing all this stuff, you got to get notified. And you do that. Subscribe to the channel and turn your notifications. And again, if you like what you're watching hit the thumb up button, comment below. Obviously that helps us immensely. And as always, we appreciate all the support of our explanation. Let's go to the question. First question from Big Daddy Janks. What is the best course of action fight metabolic burnout in the final least of contest prep? You know, when I do a lot of times with a lot of people on work with it, it's hard to do this yourself because you never want to let off the gas because you think, well, I got the show coming up. Sometimes I'll just tell, especially even with women because I work with women pretty hard, because they have trouble getting lean a lot of ladies because their metabolism is just by nature, not as good as men's and they're not using his drugs or any drugs. So what I'll do is, and I see there really you start to burn out and then that responding. And I'm low up in cardio, lowering food and not losing weight. And I know they're not cheating. I'll give them a couple of days. I'll give them a day off. I've got no cardio the next two days. They're going, what? I mean, you have to be doing two hours of cardio. I said, no cardio. And what that does is it restores their body, gives their bodies a chance to kind of rest a little bit more, recover, and it tricks the body. And to think, oh, everything is fine. And we're not overworking, you know, cortisol levels drop a little bit and then things start to respond. I'll even feed them on those days, which they freak some out even more. Wait, I can do any cardio and you can give me carbs. I absolutely am. And you know what a lot of times happens nothing. They don't gain any weight or lose any weight. Sometimes they lose. It's just because their body's been overwork. So if you're feeling like you're burnt down, don't use it and it's too lazy. But if you're legitimately not responding, you're body anymore and you're just lowering and lowering stuff and up in cardio. And it's still not doing anything. Take two days off from cardio. You know, you still do your way to take your cardio off. Take a full day off from everything. Maybe sleep, you know, an extra hour to that day. And you might have to do like a clean carb, you know, one or two days in a row. If you're at four, six weeks at, it's not going to set you back. It's going to believe it'll recharge the batteries. Let's go to Lizaro's public is in Correlex. The same as IGFLR 3 or a peptide form of IGFD recommended a peptide form. Of IGF or should I or am I better off with GH and swim in a course of AAS? All protein or peptide same word. Okay hormones from insulin to thyroid to IGF1 to growth hormone. These are peptide hormones. You can call peptide, you can call poly peptide hormones. You can call protein hormones. There are hormones that are based on proteins, not, you know, fats, the storodles, you know, like the animal extorodling. So, long R3 IGF1 is legitimate IGF1 that they'd added the side groups onto to make it less recognizable by the IGF1 binding proteins in the bloodstream that inactivated. So if the inactivation proteins can't recognize the IGF, it stays in the bloodstream and it functions better and longer. Okay, whereas if you use regular IGF1, the one that your body would naturally produce, your body will inactivate it very quickly. So the inperlex brand is regular IGF1. It's it's synthetically made like GH is they they it's reconvenently made using bacteria that express the human IGF1 gene. They isolate that and they give it to kids and very large dosages to help grow better. Because let's face if you give kids a lot of GH, you know, it can make them really insulin resistant. So they find it that in the lily these kids they can just give my GF1 and it works even better. The problem is once again, it probably needs to be administered, you know, and more frequently for body builders and remember we're not trying to get the long bones to grow. And I got to grow and most most people using IGF1, they're adults they're not your long bones have stopped growing already. So you're trying to get muscle growth from this. So you got to understand and like I said, I've never really compared or seen the study or when I was competing their in for likes wasn't around. And all I know is that the long the real long R3 IGF1 worked really well in me and I gained a lot of way from it using small amounts you have to micro dose the stuff if you take too much of it it stops working right away with in for likes the dosages higher. But you know you're probably better off maybe spreading an out a little bit more throughout the day like in a couple shots maybe too shots. The good thing is you probably won't stop responding to it as quickly because it's not in your blood stream as long remember the longer the stuff remains in the blood stream like long our freeze and there for up to 20 hours. The more chances your body have is reducing IGF1 receptors because the body is being flooded by the IGF1. Whereas when you take the regular IGF1 that doesn't last that long you're probably not going to downgrade the receptors reaction very much because of the fact that it's not in the blood stream. So unfortunately both circumstances are not ideal because one you're getting a long life of the IGF1 but you're it's but it's your body stops responding to it. So I have people do four weeks on two weeks off cycles of it. Whereas in the other case your body doesn't down regulate as quickly but it doesn't it's not in your system long enough to really get exorbitant amounts of growth. So there's pluses and minuses on both sides. Let's go to kel 1883 on 44 years old been on a year since I was 22. I can't really see myself getting much bigger but pretty happy to sit where I am. I find taking 250 MG of task 220 MG of mandrel on every 16 days. He's me looking good and mentally feeling great. I seem to be able to keep a good standard of muscle this way. You think the guy should stay on this until say 65 and actually be healthy from it as the doses are so small. You know if you tell me we take the testosterone like that say yeah but you know that guy is an animal external meaning that it's not something naturally produced in the body. Yeah it probably doesn't have any toxicity issues because it's a long acting but it's not like a normal natural hormone that the body finds in there all the time. So I would probably cycle the the deck on and off and you I would probably do my shots every week because every two weeks you're going to need. I know you're saying you feel good but you're probably getting some ups and downs and blood levels. So if you I would just do the testosterone year round for as long as you want as long as you're feeling good on it you know 200 milligrams a week or so like that one to 200 milligrams. And then if every you know every couple months you want to throw in maybe eight to ten weeks of deck with the test I would do that. I don't know if I would run the deck all the time with the testosterone. Hey unless you want I mean it's up to you and if your health markers are fine you're not your blood crush is not elevated you know you're not having any issues with cholesterol pro you know profiles being screwed up. Kidney function is good then then don't worry about it, but you know what I just find that usually you know test off and something that a body's you know naturally produce and when you're trying to replace that's what we call homeowner placement. You want to replace what your body really produces not what it doesn't produce so. There's nothing wrong with running some deck of cycles in there at very low dosage but I don't know if I would run them year rounds. Let's go to rehab fix what do you think is the most common injury amongst body builders and how could bodybuild a potentially prevent these injuries. Probably should I hear the most about shoulder shoulder injuries seem to be the most prevalent and that's because that joint it's a multi you know multi you've joined. So there's a lot more movement in that joint whereas here you know your knees and your elbows are just kind of hinge joints so they don't really have a lot of movement. Also think about the amount of weight that we lift and put on that strain on our shoulder joints you know if you don't have like perfect anatomical structure in there. You get a lot of rubbing and grinding and ultimately you wind up you know your body's not meant to bench press for in your pounds but we all. You know if you're at an elite level body building most people can do that. Problem is that you're getting a lot of cartilage damage in their rotator cuff poles you know because that's face that you can't always be on your game. You're going to be a little off the weights going to move a little bit of shift a little in the wrong direction you're going to pull something here and there and it's a cumulative thing you're chemitively doing damage over years and years and years. So even if you don't really hurt yourself just like you know acutely like tear something. There's wear and tear injuries over the course of years. That's why you don't really see a lot of great body goals into their 50s or 60s. That's to being you know like probably you know and novely and maybe Vince Taylor because it's a cumulative injury type of thing over the years and years. You see a lot of guys getting shoulder replacements and something that even a few hip replacements. I would say the shoulder joint is the most vulnerable and the only way to save it would be not to lift this heavy but then you're not going to also put as much muscle on. So look with any great my father used to tell him is if you want to be a great athlete this sacrifice is involved you have to be able to live with pain. If you're not willing to do that you're not going to be a great athlete and he was right. You know some people say it's not worth it because you got to deal with it later in life. I said it is worth it because I wanted to do something special and be different. So I was okay with pushing the envelope and accepting the consequences of it. Some people aren't. It's a personal decision. You can't. I can't make everyone else's decision for them. If you've got to make your own decision but do things smart. You don't want to be reckless about it. But understand that if you're going to push your body to that level and put that kind of muscle on and lift that kind of way there's going to be roundifications. Let's go to T. Ben. Them 62 and he says why and about like 12 question marks after that why do so many people say calves don't matter in a physique today and the judging. Because they're hard to grow unless you're naturally gifted with the cemetery and then he goes on and mentioned how. The 90s with the likes of Flex Wheeler, Ronnie Coleman, Sean Ray that they were complete and had calves. So in your opinion first of all do you think I guess calves are in way are devalued in a sense and if so why. I think in the men's open body building and probably classic I think calves count. I mean I've seen judges mark people down for for lack of calves. Why do people was always on Dennis Wolford having no calves. It's just not a major body part so in the sense that you know if everything else is great I don't think people are going to lose a shovings they don't have calves. Because it's let's face it. It's at the ground. You're not really looking that low and that's really it's what you're lying of sight. You're lying to sight as pecs, arms, you know, abs from the front, you know, obviously the back you're seeing backs and you're seeing your back and glutes and hands. That's your line of sight. You don't really see calves. It's only when you when the guys are really close and then you start to compare body part for body part that's when you start scrutinizing calves. So I think that's the reason it's just because it's not invisible. It's not visually in your visual field when you're initially look at someone. I mean, if I'm just taking a quick look up on stage and someone, I'm just looking at their their midsection. That's really what I'm seeing first. I'm seeing, you know, their pecs. If that looks good, I've already almost made an assessment whether I think that they're going to win and I think that's just judging nature, especially when we have these shows of a million people. Judges make quick quick decisions. Very rarely do you have enough time to scrutinize everything unless the guy has like one calf that's missing or something like that. As long as you have balance and you have if you have good legs, I don't you know, my calves were never my strong body part or a little lot of people suddenly loved you know how my calves looked at toward the end of my career. They were weak body parts from the extent high calves. Flex wheel had very high calves and Sean raised their cues the most time. I don't have any calf implants. I don't think you did, but a point is that, you know, it didn't cost them any shows. So people would just pick out, hey, he has no calves because the guy was flawless every place else and then if you just wait, it works. Obviously for men's physique, they don't even judge the legs so it doesn't matter if they have calves or not. But for classic and for open body building, you know, I think it comes down to calves are only important when the contest is super close. Another question that sort of, you know, Harkin's back to the likes of Yates Coleman, I've also mentioned Ian Ballier is from I have a body building. If somebody can easily endure the whole cheat, the whole diet, cheat meal, refeed free. Is that the best case scenario? You mentioned obviously many videos about the benefits of a cheat meal, but he's putting a scenario where you go completely without a cheat meal. How much fat loss benefits does the refeed daily actually have? And then again, comparing to body builders that say they never cheated other diets. You know, I think your metabolism slows down if you don't have a cheat meal. Although I, you know, some guys and girls go overboard. And sometimes I have to, I have to design the cheat meal for my might make it a little cleaner. You know, if some women like, you know, if some one of my clients choose eating like four pieces of pizza for a cheat meal. And she, she was gaining weight every week just from that one meal. So I said, look, no more pizza. I said that's a junk food meal. We're going to do some chicken. We're going to do rice, you know, and I design a cleaner cheat meal. It's still carbs in it because I think the carbs are important to stimulate metabolism. And she started losing weight again. It was just too many calories. I hate to use the work calories. No, I hate calories. But when you have too much energy you're putting into the system, you're body just can't metabolize it all. You know, Dave Palumbo could eat a five thousand calorie cheat meal. But Mrs. Jones is 120 pounds. She eats five thousand calories and she's gaining weight from that, you know. And she's going to make probably gain some fat from that. So a cheat meals are not all equal. You know, a 300 pound guy, you know, cheat meal should be a lot bigger than a hundred, you know, 30 pound woman's cheat meal. Unfortunately, a lot of times the couple goes out to eat together. And the guy in the, the woman eat the same amount of food. The guy loses weight on Monday and the woman gains seven pounds. So you can't just eat unlimited, you know, you have to have to have to be some some degree of sanity to the cheat meal. Well, let's go to Benian that's Ivan. What do you think about switching from Cland to Feverin when your body gets used to Cland it? And then I guess assigned to that which has more side of Fans? Well, I mean, it's a silly question because I'll tell you why silly because it's not a silly question because I think a lot of people probably don't know the answer. It's silly to put one in place. The other because they both stimulate the same receptors. So you're not even giving the receptors a break. So you can't just stop clung uterol, which is a beta 2 agonist. You're then taking a fed you, which is a beta 2 agonist. The truth is the clung uterol is a better beta 2 agonist than than than the feds because it's specific to beta 2 receptors where a feds are is much more of a central nervous system stimulant. And it affects the beta 1 receptors on the heart. So it's a generalized beta receptor, a stimulant. So you get more side effects from a feds because you get the rapid heart rate from it, which Cland beta all doesn't cause directly. Sometimes you get an indirect effect from that because it drops your blood sugar, blood you see in your blood pressure too much. But it doesn't directly stimulate the heart Cland beta all. So it's a much better beta agonist and it's a much better fat bird. I don't know. They don't, they're not sure if it's because of the beta 2 receptors stimulation or if it actually stimulates beta 3 receptors on fat cells too. And that's why it burns fat, but it's way better than a feds. So you can't use the two together because they compete against each other and switching from one to the other to get one arrest is not going to do anything because they're also both, you know, activating the same receptors. The reason why a lot of people like a feds is because it's a stimulant, you know, and it makes them alert and it kills their appetite a little bit. That's the case. Just take caffeine for that effect and stay on Cland beta all. You don't want to use Cland and a feds rate the same time. Let's go to Kyle Denny Shane now. This may come off as a bit of a homework assignment, but he is pretty detailed in the question. I'm 220 pounds fairly lean here around how can I improve my efficiency and absorb my carbs as Michael, as muscle, blank again without spilling over the most like an absorb without spilling over or getting watery is around 200 to 250 grams of carbs. I find that 30 grams of carbs per meal over 6 mills of fine more than that and I become instantly watery. Well, he answered his own question. It's a trial and error process. How many grams of carbs is your body need? It's like asking how big is the gas tank in your car. If you have a one guy has a 15 gallon gas tank and another guy has a 20 gallon gas tank, the 20 gallon gas tank guy could eat more carbs, right? Also, which engine is bigger? If the 20 gallon tank has a bigger engine than the 15 gallon tank, he's going to burn gas faster and he can hold even more gas than that tank because he's going to go through it quicker. So, they had to figure out how many grams of carbs is body need so that he doesn't spill because any spillage of the glycogen storage, because your glycogen storage of fill-up goes in the fat storage, right? When he found 180 is the ideal amount for him. So that's what he eats. If he wants to try to gain weight, he goes a little over that maybe. But you don't want to go too much over it because anything over that you're going to start getting watery and you're going to start getting fatter. Anything under that, and you might actually, you know, be too flat, you might not got maximum pumps in the gym. So through trial and error, we figure out how many grams of carbs you need and then you just go, it's still little under that. And the great thing is that as you grow and produce more muscle tissue, you have more storage capacity. It's like you're expanding the gas tank in your car, you can hold more glycogen. So you'll notice that you can eat more food as you get bigger. And that's just something once again. That's why having a coach is good. Because sometimes guys just can't figure out girls can't figure out for themselves how many they need and when to increase it. And that's why having another set of eyes looking over your pictures every week or twice a week. You know, like I do with my client is good because even I don't have to tell them a lot of stuff. I can say, all right, we're going to increase carbs this week or we're going to increase protein this week. And I know to do that because I can see they're getting more muscular and their requirements now are increasing above what their requirements were when we first started the diet. Tom for two, three more questions. Good at J and motive eight. Do you help any other WWE guys besides triple H with their diet and Trishin. And I guess here's the I guess speculative one, which we could have some fun with. Of the ones that you may have helped the ones that you kind of observe as an observer or a fan, which WWE wrestler do you think has the best potential to be a bodybuilder? Yeah, I've heard people asking that before I work with triple H obviously with Stephanie is wife. I did stone cold Steve Austin's diet for a little while. And I work with a couple of the guys that are upcoming wrestlers in the organization as well. Randy Orton buys all the species nutrition itself especially fire for life. So I know triple H has told a lot of people about the supplement. So a lot of them used the supplements and follow the bodybuilding kind of lifestyle. You know, proponents that I put forth. So you've known him and I worked directly with them. I'm working indirectly with them through the supplements that they're buying that I'm creating. Having said that, you know, who would be a good, I mean John Cena had a great body, you know, for body the rock has a great body, you know, for bodybuilding as well, you know, I think. So it's just you know, you never even look at the ultimate warrior back in the day. He was crazy. He was a bodybuilder. And he was a good bodybuilder too when he was competing. He had Conners got him hooked up with the W. W. E, which was the W W F back then. And that's how he got it to wrestling. And obviously was a very popular wrestling. Stop bodybuilding. But there was a lot of guys that could have been, you know, really good. You know, triple H is a little tall for bodybuilding, you know, so his leg development might have been a little tougher. But I put Cena was great. So he was a good guy. So he was a good guy. And I'm probably forgetting a bunch of guys. The rock has a little tall too, but, you know, had a great upper body. Hogan could have been a good bodybuilder. You know, if he ever gave 100% to that as well. Superstar Billy Grammyson was a great bodybuilder. There's that classic picture of Arnold and him together. And that black and white that he uses a vitality cell. So I have that up in my, in my studio. I'm not a good guy. But unfortunately, you know, once they made a big in the W W W, they never really pursued bodybuilding beyond that. So we don't really know how far they could have gone. Probably the ultimate worry, it probably could have had the best the biggest, you know, bodybuilding career. I think. Let's go to classic physique and Nash is there always a dip in sex drive after an average 8 to 12 weeks cycle or do some guys bounce right back right away. And I guess I'll add to that for those that do experience a dip, will you recommend? There's no way not to get a dip. If you're at a 1000 milligrams of testosterone, you're taking injecting a week and your testosterone on blood work is like 3000 total testosterone. And then you go off the cycle, even if your body went back to producing its own natural production at maximum value, which would be 800, you're still going to feel low. How could you not feel low going from 3000 total testosterone to 800? And most guys are going from 3000 down to 20 because their bodies just don't turn back on right away. Obviously doing the right, you know, post cycle therapy, you know, of course, 2000 units of H.E.G. You know, every two or three days, you know, for two or three weeks and then doing some clomid, I keep guys on test, you know, you realize the entire time that they're off, the balance, the DHT, estrogen and testosterone levels that helps a lot as well. But you have to understand you're not going to be at that super high value that you were when you're on a cycle, it's impossible. And even if you were at max natural levels, it still would feel too low for you because you're just taking away the sensitivity. I mean, you're at, you can't over stimulate those receptors like you were doing it. When I would go off cycle, my sex tribe would not be as crazy as it was when I was on, but it never was to the point where I couldn't like function. Because I think a lot of guys that cycle on you too, they're like, well, you know, I feel different, you know, and then they start thinking about it too much. And before you know it, you know, they're, they've talked themselves out of being able to have sex because there is a psychological component to it. And I understand when you're going from injecting, you know, every other day, a whole bunch of stuff, and now you're not doing anything. You think that you should sex tribe should drop. The funny thing is the first three or four weeks, you still have a lot in your system. So you shouldn't have a low sex tribe at all, but at least three or four weeks till you hit that, you know, monthmark. Then you might have a little drop. And then usually guys don't only stay up for eight weeks anyway, so, I mean, what do we talk about? We're talking about four weeks of being a little low. Come on. I mean, I think guys, the cry baby's about it to be honest with you. One last question from Ojalah Niko. You always get these questions obviously from your own competing career. Do you remember your exact cycle from the 1997 National? I do actually. I was using that in 1970, I remember there was no trend below. No one was making their on trend below yet, really, nothing I know of at least. I was using like, at that point we were getting testosterone in bottles, 10CC bottles from Starris. That was the Starris connection. The United States came right from the pharmacy in the US. Greg Valentino talks about it all the time. So we, I was using like 250 milligrams, 200 milligrams, maybe even 300 milligrams, like, you know, four times a week or something like that three, four times a week. I was using. I was getting parable, which was which was the trend below we used back then. It was from France. They were in Ampials. They were 76 milligrams per amp. We would use like two to three. The last three four weeks I would use three of them. I thought I was a big shot, you know, and we'd use that. We would use injectable, the windstral amps. They were a little, you know, they looked like a little milk bottles to shake up. We do 50 milligrams every other day at that. The last two weeks I would do my halal test in 20 milligrams. They were little green little mince. They looked like they came right from the US pharmacy. I was taking human trope at the time, which was an American growl hormone. I was using about three to four I used a day for that show. And let me think if there's anything else I was taking. I think I was actually on a little bit of insulin too. I used to take some insulin because I was eating a lot of food. But not a lot. Like I was taking like three or four units in the morning, three or four units like six hours later or something like that with the GH. I would be a very insulin resistant, you know. I didn't check my blood sugar's back. I think you couldn't just buy a cheap glucose monitor back then. I just knew when my blood sugar was absorbing my food. I was really flat. So I believe it and I did use insulin very small amounts for that show. And I think it was just because once again, I think I was probably from the GH. I was running a little bit of high blood sugar's. I wasn't absorbing my food. And once again, I have no data to support that other than and how I felt. I used to climb uteroll, not the ton of it probably like maybe like 20 micrograms like three or four times a day. And I was on probably about 50 micrograms a side amount. I like to, I didn't really need that the T3, but I felt that it made everything work better. Like the GH and the climb uteroll work better. And that's why more why I used it rather than for fat burning purposes. I would use that and I'm trying to think if there was anything else that I was using at that point. Like anything exotic that I had access to. I really wasn't a big orals person, so I wasn't using any orals. I think that's it. You know, I think I had pre-mobile and acetate tabs. They were 25 milligrams of peas. They came from Germany. And I was, I think I was doing four of those of day to last like six weeks. Because they only lasted a colleague two or three hours in the system. So I would do 25 milligrams every three hours during the day, which came out to about three or four pills a day. And I really liked those. I felt good on those. They did the only oral that has no toxicity because they're acetate. They don't really, they don't have to not 17 alpha-alculated. So I felt comfortable using those that I wasn't like toxifying my body. And they didn't make me feel bad. A lot of orals always, I didn't do well on orals. They would just make me feel like, like, I didn't want to eat or anything like that. That was the cycle. But you know what? You got to remember all the stuff came from either European or American pharmacy. It was all 100% legitimate and good. And you didn't have to do excessive amounts. And you know what? Quite frankly, people, if I were to tell people what I was taking back then, they would have said that was excessive. They thought that I was an extremist doing those dosages. I just knew that that was the effective dosages that worked. And once again, because guys had a lot of different theories about how to do that. I never thought to take 8 or 10 or 12 by using GH. No one did that. I didn't think to take 2,000 milligrams testosterone. No one did that. I didn't think to take five vials that's paramilon. No one thought to do that. If you took three, that was like the only did that the last couple weeks. So that was like a, like a top level cycle then. And I think a lot of the pros were doing similar type stuff like that. No one really pushed the envelope back then. It was all about training and diet. And that's the truth of the matter. You know, that is some photographic memory that you have. There's something that I would trigger. What I did to it like yesterday that well, that's incredible. I'm like trying to do the math in my head. How many years ago was that we're talking about something that happened literally 20, 20 years ago? That one was so immersed in that culture. And it was so, you know, such a scientist about what I did. I remember it was yesterday. I can see the vials in my brain, you know, where I, what drawer I kept them in in my house and when I would do the shots. I mean, I just knew because I had wrote everything down, the cycle. I knew exactly what I was taking. Because it was so important for me not to leave any stone on turns. You know, and you know, I feel bad for the guy today because now everything is underground. You don't know, you know, we sell a lot of Roy test kits on date. We're going to come, especially now with the quantitative ones that will tell you for trend alone and an antheid for testing antheid test sip and deck of how much is actually in the vials. And I can't tell you 50% of the antibiotics are probably test proponate every single drug injectable. And all the orals are coming back as they animal. So, and that's if they're real, a lot of the stuff is nothing. So, you can't trust anything. That's terrible. It's terrible feeling to not know what you're taking and if it's good because you want to maximize your performance. And here these guys are having to guess. So, now at least with the Roy test, you can tell if you have real gear. And now for a few of the compounds, you can actually tell how much gear you're taking or your stuff has and it which is a huge advantage. And so, I advise and once again, you can see this is a sales promotion if you want, but it's really helping you guys out. And that's why I'm doing it too. You're crazy if you don't test your gear because you know why would you want to waste your time and money. It's a simple test that it's like 20 bucks a test. Once you test your stuff, you know it's good, you buy a bunch of the good stuff. If you know your stuff is bad, you get rid of the bad stuff. That's how it works. That's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave right now on our oursposal.com. And of course, the RX muscle, YouTube channel, only episodes of Heavy Muscle Radio and the after hours podcast tomorrow, all new episodes of Iron Raid Good Dave and lead. For Dave Palomo, I'm sitting for a few people. See you next time.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Day, Palombo here with an RX muscle news update, the New York Pro official competitor list has been released. This Saturday, not in New York, but in Tampa because of some logistical issues and some quick maneuver get the last minute, we're going to have the New York Pro in Tampa, Florida. That's a good news for the competitors, it's good news for the fans and it's good news for us, the guys reporting about these shows. I want to do a little preview of who I think might be some of the front runners going into the New York Pro. The lineup turned out to be pretty deep after all. It first people a little concerned, maybe wouldn't get enough turnout, but I feel this is a very strong lineup. I'm going to highlight some of these competitors, and I'm going to go in alphabetical order according to the competitor list, because I don't want to say, one person better than the other. My opinion is that at the end, maybe I'll pick some of the people I think might be the guys to be. If we start off looking at this line of max trials, jumps right up the pace. I meant max trials back, probably 15 years ago, he was training in bad Francis Palombo with a 10x sweatshirt on. He would show it all the body bullying shows. He looked enormous, no one really knew what he looked like, and then one day he decided I'm going to compete. I didn't even know the guy competed. I just thought he just worked out. He was always sweating. He did. He was in the gym for hours and hours, and the guy is an absolute freak. He's probably got one of the best upper bodies in this lineup. Chest shoulders, arms, you know, his back, you know, could be a little denser, a little thicker, but, you know, really, he has, you know, the only weakness is, yes, is his legs are not quite up to snuff with his upper body. I don't know if they ever could be. His upper body is that good. This was a guy who was extremely dangerous a couple of years ago. Last year wasn't a great year for Max in terms of, I think, success, but he didn't make it to the Olympia stage. So, I think the this year he's really looking to come into New York and try to win this thing. And if he does win in this lineup, it would really raise his stock through the roof. And I think that he would be a guy definitely to watch going to the Olympia. The question will be, will you be able to balance conditioning with fullness? The next guy I want to talk about is a client. I might actually feel Kloha, who really surprised a lot of people in Tampa a few weeks ago when he placed fourth in a really tough lineup where Huntel Abraudah brought home the win with the NVL year in second. And Phil has been a guy who's kind of like been on the sidelines, no one really knew him because he kind of turned pro in a weird show that wasn't really a conventional like USA championships or nationals. And I just saw a tremendous amount of talent, he contacted me and I said, man, this guy is going to be really good if we get him in shape. And really bring him in nice and full. And Tampa was I would say 95% of what we, you know, a 95% version of Phil. I think what we're going to see in New York here or in Tampa again, obviously, but at the New York pro is going to be worlds ahead of what we saw in Tampa and I think he's going to shock a lot of people. He's got density to his physique. He has the ability to get super crazy hard. He's got nice shape to his physique and he really has no weaknesses. He's very well balanced. And that's a dangerous competitor when he's on stage at his best. That means full and lean shredded. So that's the goal for Phil. And I think that he's really still an underdog here. And I think that no one's expecting anything from him. But if he comes in here, he could be this dark horse in this line of who comes out, you know, with a lot of people talking about him. Let's move on to another guy who's a season of better in at this point, John Delorosa. He's probably got the most wins of any guy in this line up here. John wins shows every single year. And then they last year he won the Puerto Rico show. He won the Toronto Pro show. He always is very consistent. He's got no weaknesses to his physique. His only weakness really is is it's conditioning and going to be good enough on the day of the show. And when it is, he's almost impossible to beat because he has no flaws in his body. And that's an advantage that he's got going to this line up. He knows how to win. He's been there before. The question is, Willie brings his best. I say we're going to see a great John Delorosa. And I think if we do, he'll shock a lot of people because a lot of the big names were hearing Patrick Moore's in the invalier airs. And these guys, you know, can easily beat beat by John Delorosa if he's at his best. Because like I said, there's no, there's no flaws in his physique. There's really nothing that's missing. He just has to bring in crazy, crazy conditioning. Moving on to one of the new guys in the lineup, Quentin Maria, he made a, he shocked a lot of people last year with his fifth place at the Toronto Pro. He's got some of the freakyest muscle in this lineup and it's new. When I say new, I mean that we had, he's still coming up, he's still coming into his own. He's developing muscle maturity. He's rounding off his physique. And he's probably the most dangerous guy in this lineup. I don't know if this year is going to be his year that he's going to be ready to start winning major major shows. But he is the future of body-building for sure. I'm a lot of a bunch of other guys, young guys that are coming up like Hunter LeBrona will be, you know, in the next five to seven years, the guys that will be talking about as the Olympia top elite. He has the physique, he has the good to he has the genetics. And this could be his breakout show. Once again, very impressive last year in that fifth place. What will he bring this year? I don't know, I haven't seen an affix, I haven't really talked to enough people. I'm the big fan of his physique. And I think that he's dangerous because he's got the structure. When I say structure, I mean, when he stands next to other people, he makes them look bad. And when you have that ability and you bring muscle and conditioning on top of that, that's a tough pack of soul to be. So look for quitting to be another dangerous dark horse in this lineup. Moving on to Patrick Moore, who probably was the most talked about man after the Olympia in 2019 with his top 10 finish there. A lot of people thought he was going to come into the Arnold Classic this year, which was the only show we really started in the beginning of the year. And was going to dominate that show. Didn't do what we thought he would do. He just proved that he did not have enough size yet. How much size he's put on since the Arnold. I don't know, we'll find out. But I think we're going to see a better Patrick Moore. Conditioning has never a problem with him. He's got the structure. He's got the lines. You know, with Chris Asito and his corner there, we know he's going to be conditioned. Or probably one of the most conditioned guys in the show. The question is, does he have enough size to stand with some of the bigger guys like Ian Valier and even Antoine Valier? There's a lot of massive guys in this lineup, even Max Charles. So we'll see if Patrick doesn't look too small in this lineup, he could be a guy who win the show. So this is going to be an exciting, I guess you could say, debut because let's face that this year has been split into for Patrick Moore. Moving on, maybe one of the most dangerous guys in this lineup that no one is talking about. We've been talking a lot about a lot of dangerous guys, but this might be the most dangerous guy. Another Chris Asito disciple, Hassan Mustafa from Egypt. Quiet doesn't speak a lot of English. We don't see that much of him, but man, this his physique, do the talking. He's like a pole-demel clone of this guy. He's got the quads of quadzilla. He's got an enormous upper body. He has, you know, Chris sent me, I don't know if was this picture or a similar picture. Like, I think he sent me a most muscular shot a couple days ago and he said, what do you think? I said, he looks like he's eating a thousand grams of carbs a day, he's probably eating 50. And Chris said, no, he's not eating 50, he's eating zero. He's got just natural fullness around the studios muscle bellies. Super dangerous. If he comes in in the best shape of his life, look for Hassan Mustafa to possibly walk out of here with a victory. So here's another guy who's just extremely dangerous with no weaknesses. And when you have no weaknesses, you know, a lot of times, you know, going into a show, you become a hard guy to beat. Now, what we see alone is not what we see when we compare guys next to each other on stage. So real Mastoph is mass and freakingess in these pictures, translate on stage to a victory or even a top three at this show with the level of competitor we have. That we don't know. Because it's hard to compare people when you're just looking at a single picture. Because he looked right alone, absolutely. Will it translate into a win here? I don't know. But look for him. Another guy that you have to just keep your eye on. Because he could just just shock everyone in this line up and take the whole show. Justin Rodriguez, this guy has been dangerous for the past three or four seasons in a row. He's once again another guy with all the tools he brings conditioning. Sometimes he's on. Sometimes he's not so on. It depends which Justin Rodriguez we're going to get at the New York pro. This weekend, if we get the best Justin Rodriguez look for him to be easily be top five possibly top three here. He's got dance muscle, he's got good separation, he's got really no weaknesses and he's got a lot of freaky mastone and that's what these judges look for especially the New York pro and especially at a show of this caliber. We're going to be looking for quality and we're going to be looking for a physique that's going to jump out. Once again he flows well and buddy's got a lot of mass in conditioning as well. What physique he brings to the stage? This weekend is a coin flip. I don't know where he's at. I haven't seen him but if he brings his best, very dangerous in this lineup. As you see, there's a lot of guys in this lineup that are super crazy dangerous and that was making this show super exciting because I really, if you had to tell me, place the top five, I don't know I would have trouble doing it at this point because there's so many guys that are wildcard variables in the lineup. Let's go over to Antoine Valliont who missed last year because he tore his bicep. He in 2018 made a nice comeback we had him on the show. He talked about some of the drug problems he had in the past that are all cleared up now. He made that comeback successfully. He took forth at the Toronto Pro behind one morale, came Williams and Central Comic Millen. He was poised and you really take it to the next level and he tore that bicep set him back year. From the pictures on his Instagram I'm seeing that he's posting. This guy's a freak. He has structure. He's got class and flow to his physique. When he brings the conditioning in perfectly, he's a difficult guy to beat. He's an unconventional poser, I like high green but you know what he has such great symmetry to his body that he knows how to position those body parts to really bring out and enhance what he's got. So look for a great posing routine for Manituan and look for a lot of entertainment and family from him. I absolutely see a top 5 here in his comeback. Probably the most dangerous guy in the line of has to be in value. I dangerous because he's got probably the most mass in size of anyone. He's able to get freaky hard like Dorian Yates when he's on 100%. He's absolutely whether he meant to not mad from not being able to win that show in Tampa a few weeks ago against the Huntula Broad. If there's things didn't click for him psychologically, there wasn't there. He was too flat as Cam was off. You didn't have any support system there with him. I think he learned his lesson. I say he comes back. He's looking for revenge here. If he brings all the tools he's got to the table. Bring the fullness, bring the conditioning, the polish, the right hand. No one beats here. I say it because he's the biggest guy with the best symmetry here. Now, that's not taking away some of these other guys that I mentioned that have some super freakyness going on also. But I think he's got the level of muscularity with the huge structure that just looked very imposing and alight up. We talked about how some of these guys look really good alone. He and makes other guys look bad on stage because he's so big and so broad. Got the good taper from the front. He's got freakyness to him. Once again, he's got to keep his head in-shat. He's got to keep focused on the goal at hand, which is to bring the best to the stage. Not put too much pressure on himself and I say he can cruise to victory here. Not an easy victory, but I think he can take home the win if he really wants to. Another wild card in this line of Duane Walker who is third in Tampa a few weeks ago behind Ian Valier and Hunter LeBrautta. A lot of impressive muscle. This is a guy who's a two-twelf guy who moved up. I think he's the future certainly of this division. I don't think he's going to bring enough size necessarily to win this show because he's still going to be out size right in a lot of guys and line up. This is not Tampa. This is the New York pro. We have a way, way deeper line up this time around. But I think look for him to be a top five, top seven guy in this line up, which I think would be terrific considering this is his first year in the open division and I'm expecting to see something very impressive from Duane Walker. I'm glad that he thru his hat into this ring once again because why not? Let's see what you stand. People are talking about you, show up again and then you know what? Take the whole off season, put on the necessary size, you need come back, I'll allow William Bonac and destroy people next year. So I'm excited to see Duane on stage. Once again, I don't know if he'll crack the top five in this line up but he certainly has impressive muscularity and the freaky body parts when he steps on stage and he hits those poses. The crowd will go crazy for sure. So the question is who's the favorites in this line up? I don't even know, I would have to say just from right off the cuff, John Del Roses, one of the most seasoned veterans here, he knows how to win shows. This is the guy who's going to be super dangerous. Even though you think that he doesn't have the quote, wow fact that he's got the little on the shorter side, he's got a weakness and no holes in his physique. If you bring his conditioning, he can win this show. I think it's going to be a himany and a value of battling it out. I would say, you know, that's the safe bet. But then you have so many wild parts in this line up between the Antoine Valyance. You have the Quentin Arries who you never know. You have a little Phil for hard. You have Hassama Stoffa who's got massive amounts of muscle on his body. I just think that it's a very hard show for me to give you my top five on. And I would probably be wrong. I would just be throwing names out there. So what I'm looking forward to is a great show. I think Steve Weinberg is going to commend it for making the show happen. I'm sure he's probably losing money on this show because he's got to get prize money. I had to move it at the last minute. But the New York pro is happening. We're going to have a limpia qualifiers. Obviously we got all the other divisions as well. Even including women's body building. I'm assuming they're going to have a live stream like they did the Tampa. I don't know where it will be available yet. I would be assume it would probably be if the New York at betfereccess.com. But I'm sure we'll get more details as that comes. Guys, I want to wish all the competitors, even the ones I didn't mention, tremendous success on stage this weekend. I wish I could be there. I'm a hopsciff in a jump away, but you know what, with COVID and everything like that. I'm playing it cool. But I will become, I think, from the sidelines as well. All of us on social media. For now, I'm Dave Pollumbo with an RX muscle news update.

You know, it's funny because I think that guys on seriously heavy cycles and they come off and they come off and get blood worked on it and all the even when they before they even come off, they take blood worked on it and all their markers are fine. That doesn't mean that they don't need to give their body. Break it just means that their health markers are good. They deliver in kidneys and blood is everything is functioning well. Whether they're on year or not, that their bodies are just able to handle it. So that doesn't mean that their bodies are not strange. You really don't want to get to the point where your health markers are crap because that's not good. That means your body's been on the strain for a long time. So I don't necessarily have to see, you know, granted, I don't want to see people's creatine, which is kidney function high. Okay, I don't recommend going back on a heavy cycle if you're, if you're creatine is 3.15, you know, that's ridiculous. You got to get that down to normal. Now, liver enzymes unfortunately don't go down a lot of times because when people go off cycle, they're still training and training raises those those numbers. And that's just from leakage from the muscle cells of enzyme levels because the enzymes found inside the muscle cells, the metabolic enzymes and the same enzymes found inside the liver cells. It's hard to distinguish them. So sometimes you'll have high liver enzymes, but they're really not high liver enzymes. They're really high muscle enzymes. And it's just from breaking down a lot of muscle tissue, which is nothing wrong with that. Likewise, you know, red blood cells will be high, but those are not going to go back down unless you donate blood or you wait 120 days after your last shot because the red blood cell has a lifespan of 120 days. So I'm not really worried about that. LH, FSA, which is your pituitary hormones. It's stimulate the testicles to produce testosterone. Those are never coming back in six or eight weeks that you go off a cycle. And it doesn't matter because you're going back on a cycle. So I don't have to wait until those go back to normal. Okay, because why do I have to worry about your body turning its natural production on if I'm going to put you back on a cycle, you're going to go back on a cycle anyway and shut it back down again. So what you're doing is you're going off cycle to clean out to give the organs of digestion and the detoxification organs like deliver in the kidneys, a chance to rest a little bit. You're going off to resensitize androgen receptors, which are found in the nucleus of all your cells, rather than them being constantly bombarded and overstimulated with high dosages of steroids. You're going to be understimulated because you're probably going to not be producing even enough normal testosterone. So what's going to happen is those receptors are going to say, where's all the testosterone? That's not here. Let's produce more receptors. So you're going to increase your receptor density, which is good. And all this takes place over about anywhere from eight to ten weeks. And if you clean out during that period, your organs should feel better. Your receptors should regenerate. A lot of guys will do my three week detox cleanse program that I give out, which involves some liver detoxification and kidney detoxification and the way the foods and stuff you eat are allowed your digestive systems to recover. And that works. That will speed up the process a lot of times too of detoxification. So especially if guys only want to go off for six weeks because they got something coming up, they might do the three week cleanse and detox. And then if you guys email me, I'll send it to you for free. I'll use 285 and AOL.com. And then what happens is they'll go back on. So that's really what the goal is. The goal is restore receptor, density, give the organs digest and a chance to recover.

錐!!我有第一次騙惹了我們三㎝樂行来玩了мер绚可以找我的朋友非常好继续这叫我嘉宝果然 ugitch自己是你的熟悉还是求你的生意强麒团就是知道你的区我遮刞光 SUPER但是你已经忘了D-Rush DanceWords First pre-workout VHey guys we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 3rd year in a row and what we're gonna be doing today is we're gonna be launching the tasty pastry The Ocar Pock Tart got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA Pro 1 RX Television on RXMMuscle .com this ass Dave better known as Hashtag as Dave your weekly 30 minute question она你就在關係,很多人要坐在那邊放肺體很封閒於保守的車幟誰在轉身兒後點過隔壍 elite前腳行我的地方甚至我最靜的別人兩位運簽的牌位第二回立時也有一間 душ信留下一個成個導船人除了職體 發得虛定的他做到 vulnerable我也是 指說因為他做了而且他做到燕君不知道 his陳有點 elas算是真的是我也是ilde的我完全認為 就是做了蠻不好的而且對臺灣有儣他簡單 than his�他知道他的好快就不會要拿到那一位他說製造人他想知道西他會想知道他跟臺灣其實你其他當時沒這麼多從上去你知道你只能打不過當時能不能影片就看過去因為你找她的傻子但我係正在看法但我喜歡共流水如果我馬上還有一個你們我就回來我覺得台灣裡面很好為什麼他們覺得方便有很多生活被困性的很有 indie者有一名的很多方面的店員他們有一個一個名這行方他們有一個一讓人犯一個步行他們就是大讓人喊答應聯人的所以對方財視中他的手紙他是許多分副運用燈但是相當於動終婦工作就只嘅錄影獵就畀過了ベル閣一直很忙畢人非常重要那些能不能動超級100度快撥 closes還是整個部段國家保護全球一個更遵始也不會給別人自動很害怕漸出雙牌他總算方對於或染疫苗或是社交泥雖然我是好大家知道甚至使不到你能不當你影響出來 裡面所以那是通知理解我不可以打開你的手但是你不知道那麼到處對中午的警察有處都是不留意 好會有害怕子的病 diagnosed我是不是說說我覺得那我是一樣的我是說不是騒渣過,因為時間不都是畏了所以我相信他們仍然依依這樣的朋友生命者所以我不能走在你身上我要不要放弃我們還宲 Mexico我不願意再看到我互相會比較好但是 Kellitype我還真的很有事但沒事了所以我總會知道你as if ofEXI projekt with some YoulC你自己我不能掉了全世界擔心因為你相信你係同一員 叫你命令你所有人越來越 擔心通 spite而但我無法要牢信每個人認識都會嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯給我一下尤其是好像以前在整�區他的教育體受到被ieversüy容許故意過這條處方特別開始就是一個發展她滿意歡喜рал的丟託這一切是一個6七七 一個七七牛她漫女們奉米婆 我們說過你們的飯都會演員其實我們想不到尾尼 society兩國政府 Storm是職業品的九十年應該有一個各個名為民主發展其實許多計算你誰都來看聽這些仲巧皮那橘追戰當然對我說這個是因為enced生蜜蜘蛛每群像是這樣但eday我會把機會到電祸中可能會通過我能幫狙關我想用這土豆 Ou swamp沒有機會SUMBA我很痛苦用什麼嘛價錢是2 helps賣子they這些都已經有機會騷訊但是這兩個是不是不知道到直接在重點在日本化 Georgia賣子了讓人泡出去如果你可以 Compassionate这次都绝符派到 number 3所以抗拎党去当年转迹之后亦是快起又完全是从来的人甚至是重座但是它过少得名如果郵子-如果 effiments时我都如意经过进去,我会经解我觉得底就是别人当年因为在断 pedestrian就是在谋谒这个时候上时间一拍子哇assa他们曾立下一拍子然后结果别做现在现在是加剧长我们喜欢干部联系节奏可以在 часть节目发动然后要去考卷树中最主要是让你 nim上去 fossil来 snippet在复杠做行员很多萬人送到耶穌或台當然十分 WIN<|eu|>很好的 depende如果ventilators都是一般的我幫助到我的士多像日本所以我們說我們用二級八級老不是裝進來那麼還 made日本時用 acostumруп為漂亮耐弱些妝設計都譜說不停對歷史 probation還沒統奢對那所以真的是�回来来吃得没事加入到饭丹当时馆了蒸的饭吃肉信用 lim也能吃一下谓不生也能吃完略再一次第4 个炸食伪款使开时awsze感道ricanes感帮你弱炸食用食动还有饭们有一个绋る粗离把饭丹炸食动就是咁完成所以 mother那如淡虧教育網友劉你可以幫我按下一個班有一句只要是需要改 Niagara所以我喜歡這個演賽讓我能 концеpelled환 rester如果您察官 slogan法 再來认完 plead Är小明案我們您說這一次請下集支持您的事 addict記得不要問故事如果您提醒您的事您讓您家大家在談冠委拿死但是丸石他的igm蓝ją的伊林如果他還演成 qualquer比班可否生氣體結果何其他的這個印度而有詞我就很好我來說的愛我得到了日本夢我是向負責我嘗試組織身 Aunt問出了網絡學習的時候只是說找出口ated by the song充完走個快速只起至一點書我弄到毛泳的手首先我非常落深繼續我去年間再過小■舌子大量我 geme我去房子說她怎麼樣是有一個圖案我和她為何沒回來我甚至予說小貓有這種口水那出了 您我往這要停換 Uber我做 Netherlands然後 förais這個是在 toe所有臉書在外國它還是把他辦創造這是在電視頻的岳 endless建設的我當演入棘 week向妳在深去一些扳進去我在要過的isk Urilities我不會管他我但我亦犯罪的話ead to my kids因為我依默一匯因為你iversity時是不說你慢慢開誘論我會指對答案我們是現實聊聊ole但我只是覺得這個話已經是不同就會多兒哉說字度可以當現現嘘想在北京你要你面举脹把聚会你們有人在大幾乎工作也可以是不是點 osob我會把他去OTS怎麼自己會來攻擊在除氣中全40分鐘左右 smoothly四十多日可以點我剛走這樣你怎麼會告訴我 有什麼做法?說sam 這個瓜子我就把它面對弄清楚 這個瓜子有它的成本所以 voy介紹的一整東西就如果你喜歡我的做法被 assemblyUT可以這邊陰陰刀所以你要有一個危機你轉嘴上出那部分的話 你辦法全打幹隨便的繩子就從做螺絲這樣撕achusAnd then, you can define what you need to do to achieve those goals."我先覺得,謝謝你在時,我都會要感謝你們能夠保留我的保護 dokument也因為我的專去帶來最重要的鎮定我的確要依覆管上δ期滿 Af Sans共識上了一個5 soubs不過,你用em annotherapy給我,提供書者允許治大金字 trip在我所見到,ZaniSON位有關於餘餘運餘處,以ets laying arm CCoineLidoryn pike dig孩子,然後 implementation ofesearch先為 any should be esteemed,銀行存在的人,以前大金字基本個月 effect,發授mberd,那個體內海製造型則他們是害怕的這是更可以麻煩的因為他們逆逆拆的波士正進去乾ancy我不知道怎麼會更大平衡人們 government嘛你自己跟住我就imos他是从他尔河你森 resto我我做到運用的 caffeine這個這個我覺得我每國家這邊產生的一些好吃然後我來保 agony我真的私有整塊只是早果我女兒的說你有沒有想要在沒人店鞋幫忙我幫你洗脆給忙我幫我洗凱克繩婦如果在一起兩個地方他們急著進手給保育他們另外大人那, that's typical, but if you're walking around with high creatine, creatine it's just being all the time, that's not a good thing because that can indicate that you have progressive kidney damage. Now, you can go for another test that I've said this year, before called Siss statin C. These doctors don't know what it is, a lot of them, unless they are like the fraudulgest or hemetologist, so they have a lot of them to dismiss it, but it's the most definitive tests for kidney damage. So if your Siss statin C levels are high, you probably have some kind of kidney damage她不是壓力她要看楚L可以不通過她們說句人特 Hernan是機會快要吹拼命ematic和蟬頭慢慢不過非常準確有很多性反應主要是台灣衣服賺多少因為一會最大的我想是於我會比較突然因為當你改型為娯利非常蠻好的蟹皮因為我無法我覺得到月نd我相信 現在未來一定是我因為心思中的問題因為每集起碼 應該在orship對我懐娶主席法夫很chesys萮可王 crist后也是急悄的之外说越急难受接触到好平时coff今年到我们国内私人拾身恶请加工谈lares最毒敌民主 Base破搭采基段PG同辅云与同志基大使香港國人煮變不成反然之火這次觀眾知道所以這次臣被大學會給大家等起來寬 chewing聽他們說慢慢約是台詠我們其實非常的多他們覺得應該有一個當修膠現在ison因為我講的隨時同學做好但是快點作為地的往這時候就發動自己的可對憐的人是在歷史ationalism在中國北亞各方面粒不越越野很讓條件糠定 ा UbTA這次普世装今年的放在商 solchen立處笑碰軸任何處理能夠插一個W我的 отлич我有心理我講過我的夢中我太認情想忢話我大家都想向oder只這些今天老白雲特別是我的天嘛我真的愛還很不失去了我意識我我們前面都是執行的當然我會對了我只想你們不管我自天,但愛花死地還不容易可是還有很多人可不有ać希望 fort我問你這邊講到了緩園勘訓丙穩很快Pekir在外面發現他拿電話出什麼構思再講另一次ٍ講亦是假裝苦,因爲0變至上對魔母開始,哼亦度還得死嘛。 Motor dealer für乎頒了會對命他會成功,因爲是性屋醞,他應該是失投。就是展現牛自治,萬一清醒,因為他失放 46,而祂愿不我了。令人対seen他一定發現他的心思。問求他的天罪。可不是以為他來此 nonsense,他不專心抗拳。還而âu,他又輸出用他的心忍。後者使 plante還是甚麼。他活 Akt她說現在能活基,行出命有經典政治 луч的而且他們有見面的最好的嘉ony在這些部分是不是 Peach loss我已經過期蘇田的真方兩位冬天 Braker獨立節廁方的現彩工人 Sick最後工作香港的天是不功能等到他們我剛先處認識建立 yo非常好香港的時間大家多 gnag Deck來讓他的資料 往達告訴他那你過去會瘋alities還是我敢不想把班深入之後我很も細熟響鐘起哂!你是一ев我如何安癢或會當日我會封外我出現所作用我滴到時蚊臺著 Raj 這臺心態缺時而我知不知道可不足楊楊簡直是我一定是注於思想的因為 arcade者來說這四方可知道為何這種東西所有場所做出了賀裂的黄色 nor影子在沒有戴信所以你都看過地面上雷巴又黎又黎又www對吧你航正個耳朵你就輪了 200 幾年的所以Jennie再講你今天好幾年之間壓力就是我嚟做了這樣就算上午我一年少會到我所以忘ounding因為中間第🤣原頭損失入醉了 Ganz favorites定人也会他回来只由他用让他ements小子如果其实他会怀自然就会出个字不是说台型的疏忽然只是一个感觉物作连游贱到多些是对人家家都有一张因为会让他红麦收得很有 myst乐这样做如此問題会不让他演幼特摘大身使用拿到这个起床始来电欢irmka还第一节我第一节甚至都这里你再つ起来恭喜他所以 你到底你配虎及能不能失敗要不然是不過有無法的懋劇因為剛剛民大量左右第幾步你這麼聰明你們繼續到測 отд如果你在反過來 Vert with your nothing拾回後才會怎樣失敗如果你有無法小心不然就要釋重聞一想要從天治者很文化如果你都帶進去D hydrodicated damage to them, so don't get quite up in that either. let's go to Phil Francis P.T. tape your opinion on using aromatates and hybrids for a long time, will they affect your health over time, especially if you depend on them, while being on to your team during due to being estrogen sensitive. I guess the second to that is what other options are there. You know I tell people if you're on a post-cycle therapy,22%, storm model replacement我不是擔心這部服務萬团就是貨品我也不早要提到因此同學的國務者在澀宇所frage mounting他們預算是100!再分了100wwww看變成了100wwww全 Brad活神對非常好才隨時提讀學生以前我看過這四 лишь你可以代表正確的又比機會是第一次更前的練習還是很吸引也比較屋無關不會但可能好像算是上次就是要把人家說不敢怪個人的算是新作 Kn smartphones使用下偷經或長得都被叱伙传开我们的人內地有些人保证 טוב多日本是ප日的现在比香港可照业也算是沒有實 反正的 carrots糊塞的影響一下就是經民的紀念其實是時 Только兩天在業內如果也算一樣我們只能不相當你喜歡這種甚至也能下憲而且在下憲很有趣是力量放ordinates之後會燈對是什麼一碟大家伍然即見你的好乘 proceso一碟能換種但我煙你要到看念時收集會我 always say where everything cookedNow when you're measuring carbohydrates a lot of timesyou have to go by with the box the rice boxso if you buy minute riceand you look at the box and you read alright one serving is this many gramsand it produces this many grams of carbohydratesso if you're measuring a dry you're measuring a half a cupat it produces so much I don't even knowI don't every box of rice is differentso if you're measuring the box that isand usually measure drybecause if you're measuring it if the cooked rice can fluff up dependingon how much extra water or less water you useI like my rice a little hardso I put less water in itso I would probably have more carbsso I have to really always measure the carbs dryand then the protein cookedlet's go to I'll be to NassityI always get ab muscle crampsso I'm doing seeded muscle ab crunchesno other ab exercises cause thisfor me is this an issueof a lentilite imbalanceof other causes of workhe's getting when he's doing water againso I'm a seeded machine ab crunchesyou know a lot of timesto guys cramp especially in the summerbecause they're really depleted of electrolytesand when I say electrolytes99% of the time it's sodiumthe pollutionI used to for some reasonI went through a stage where I was gettingbad cramps in my hamstringsso I would do my squat workoutI would do my leg pressI do extensionsI would get these lockups on my hamstringsI couldn't figure out what was going onI started drinking a gatoradeor coconut waterwith my workoutsso I don't think it was a sodiumthe pollution issuemaybe because I was sweating so much while I was doing legsyou know that's usually the caseso try doing something that has electrolytesif you're not dieting you can do coconut wateror gatoradeif you are dieting you can try to maybe do like apowerade zero or something like thatthat has no calories in it but still has the electrolytes in itthat might be a good option last question about someonethat we believe it or not we actually get a lot of questionsso once in a whileso on instagram right yeahso you have your other inbox whereI guess people that you're not necessarily connected toyou're going to get a lot of messagesso sometimes I'll just check there and seewhat we're kind of questioning the reggaewe get so many questions about this guyZack King Khanso massive fascination with himare you still working with Zackwhat exactly are his competition plansyou should get him on the showI am working with ZackI work with him over a year nowso I'm telling first of allI got to tell he's got a tremendous workthe guy works his bottleif anything I tell him to dohe's a machinehe's so big right nowI dieted him down he was going to do showsbut as you know in the UK it's almost impossible toto compete anywherethey can't travelhe was in shapeI had him in contactshe had to do itI got him working with Chris Corrhe's a friendhe's a friendhe's a friendhe's working on thathe's going to roll him outhe's going to roll him out in 2021he's going to surprise a lot of peoplehe made a lot of improvements to hishe's been focused he sends me updates twice a weekhe makes sure he's in checkhe's like I saidhe's very methodically eats his foodhe does everything he's supposed to dohe's getting better and betterhe doesn't do anythinghe's been doing his besthe's been doing his besthe's got a lot of musclehe's got a lot of muscle on his bodyhe's a big problemhe couldn't control the muscles he hadhe's always like a pole to let issuehe really had him work in the hardhe's still working with Chris Corrhe's a friend這個人作了法,我國慣行,在他們訂它目標,ask他們都發起馬上裁裝 已經全爆炸這樣就不必告訴接近幫我們喝了泰國觸體 quality管関時間煤面你不帆不想閣関抗它很有他們的來 rot還有出籍發説一對一對它應有推爆了動超完月它有難逢走這是想下一步,到這回一個同一個你楽會一玩玩,你的cedented你總覺得幹嘛ule就到了,飛到茶 concentrated影片,完了而來在了但是,藍芎剛到這個晚上而且在說喜歡這裡變成乾燥啦然後迫筏死了,是單一個個職行你笑走吧現在你抽一回它的秘密度 創作歡迎 to go into theindo ot我的淘汰et or i an Portuguese像我在東京開順時有一個淘汰的ategories跟在時候沒那麼高你知道 że呢版成來自我是現在大家在拍攝上這位內 yang,立刻中勝輪比做到十分懂得這種這個是來自自創。By the time you watch this interviewI'd rather this show would be interview with Logan Franklin He's gonna be live on RISMOSEDOT Common the RISMOSEDOT YouTube channel Classic Fizzy Champion in Europe Pro On with Dave on Live Wait for Dave Pullinbo and our producer Tyler Shore I'm so thankful for Rekeoples See you next time

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 14th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. How you get through the party really doesn't matter. It's what you do when you get there that makes everyone remember you. And I'm pretty sure a second year of Big Man, Josh Wade wants to leave the good old people of Las Vegas, something to remember and buy. Now that he's officially got his Olympia Invite, Wade and his crew have really cranked up the intensity over the last week or so, as they tried to close hard down the last five and six weeks stretch. For a guy, his size, Wade has good shape and good proportions that can make him a pretty dangerous prospect to get to the old working. But until we see the call, that's start flying. We still won't have any real sense of how he'll stack up against the guys in this year's Olympia. Everyone seems to have that one person in their life who fly out can't function if they don't have at least one cup of coffee in their system. But from where I'm sitting, it doesn't look like men's physique all star. Ray Edmonds is having any trouble getting amped up for his workouts these days. After taking a good chunk of the season off to get ready for his Olympia prep, one of the most underrated talents in the division is back to firing. I'm also in there's again. The latest word coming from my people out there near the steel city is that Edmonds is on pace to blow away the look he brought into Las Vegas contest. That even had one person telling me they think he could easily be a top three finisher this year. With his height and his muscle Edmonds is definitely some sort of specimen when he's at his best. And if his best happens to show up on stage at the Olympia this year, the competition better get out of the way of this free train. And that was watching the NFL Network last weekend. I caught a clip from the Cardinals training camp where I heard a few people say that this was probably going to be Larry Fitzgerald's last ride. And then I got to wondering, I went to how much former 2O2 Olympia champ David Henry might have left in his tank. By all accounts the man they call the OG Giant Killer is out there in the ungodly hot desert of Arizona training like a man possessed again. As he gears up to make his annual pilgrimage back to the only other place in the US that might actually be hotter than his home state. Maybe there's something to living out there in the heat like an old iron month that makes this guy into the Ageless Wonder. So if you can figure out how to suck up some of that new Nevada energy when he makes the trip up north, who knows what sort of trip might still have up his sleeves. The fourth of great Roman philosopher, Santa Cuckoo, fate guides the willing and drags the re-locked him. And I'll leave it to you to figure out which one of those two camps that figure icon Heather D's falls into. Yesterday the biggest thing to hit Utah since the great Salt Lake dropped the new clip from Warner Bros. back days as she starts to head into the final phase of this year's Olympia prep. The word on the street is that these inner team feel great about where they are at this point in their prep. And when I hear words like that coming from a former top 5 Olympia finisher, it tells me everything I need to know about how things are working behind the scenes over there. I personally think the top 10 of this year's figure lineup might end up being the best of all time before it's all set and done. The given or track record you'd have to be crazy to think that Heather D's won't find some sort of way to get herself in on the action. Now that we're talking about some of the killers in the figure division, and any of you guys have been paying attention to what Nadia Wyatt has been doing lately. Well, true to form Wyatt has been quietly putting together another masterpiece over there alongside the rest of her crew. And based on the way things have been starting to shape up over the last week or so, well I'd say she's probably already waking up every day in take no prisoner mode. Over the last few years, it's never ceased to amaze me just how dangerous this girl can be when she's 100% dialed in. And I wouldn't put it past her to shake things up at this year and challenge for a spot in the Elite Top 10. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the morning. On daypalombo reminding you to always be true to your passions. I think you'll follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Thank you.





Don't remind me of an idea of a little iron rage about suicide and how it's become more prevalent and why do people do it and some of the solutions to get around doing that and the ways to change your thinking and then we did a little fun Steve Blackman make fun of at the end just to kind of add a little lightness to it. But depression is a real problem in our society nowadays. There's a lot of people walking around that are chronically depressed and I can tell you all day long look at the positive change the way you think and change the way you look at things things you look at change. I give every little you know saying I give you personal experience how when I'm down and I've changed the way I've done things and and looked at things and I've gotten myself involved with other you know projects that I find that I'm passionate about. I can tell you that all day long and it's not going to change probably the fact that you don't feel good or that you're feeling depressed and I understand that and so it's hard but I promise you that if you can find something that you love to do okay and that you can immerse yourself in and it doesn't have to be bodybuilding it can be something else you know I collect snakes I'm like crazy you know nuts about that now so all you was thinking about it I'm preoccupied all day because I'm not graded yet I'm getting very good at it but I'm not going to admit to me that's a challenge to step up my game so that's something that I enjoy doing away from bodybuilding so I bodybuilding is my number one thing I love to report on and give information and educate people about but sometimes it gets overwhelming and you just I just need a break from it and that I go there and I clean my clean snakes hubs you know or I go play my kids you know that's my new passion my children are my families also that but sometimes you need to break from that too my son can drive me nuts you know and I gotta have something that can get me away or you get depressed some people have nothing they don't have a family they don't they can't get it hold a relationship down they need to lost their job you know they hurt they tore their quatt nothing's going right for them in their life that's when you have to take inventory what's going on in your life and say you're so okay stop what's what is good in my life there's gotta be something good there's always something good it could be the stupidest thing your plan for the tomato plant your back yard and you got a great yield from it or you you you know you found a hundred all bill on the ground or something find something that actually gives you a smile in your face no I watch an hour muscle youtube video I laugh my ass off okay that's good I'm laughing that means that this humor in my life embrace what is good about what's going on not don't preoccupying obsess about what's not good and what you feel bad about because when you do that you get more bad it doesn't it sounds hard because you know how can I obsess on a tomato plant producing a tomato when you do that and you make yourself feel good and you find out that hey this is something I did well and I enjoy now all of a sudden you're inviting more joy more good more prosperity into your life it's not an instantaneous thing so you have to practice looking for the good stuff that's going on in your life every day then one day all of a sudden a lot of good stuff will come to you but if you're always worried about what's not right in your life and what you don't have you're gonna get more of that okay and that's not what you want and that's why people fall into these funks and it mushrooms on top of itself and then before you know it you feel like blowing your brains out with a gun and that's not an acceptable that's not an acceptable solution okay that's not first of all you're not getting out of anything okay you're gonna have to come back in and redo it again so you might as well get it right the first time okay you got a lot there's always a new opportunity around the corner the next day when you wake up there's always a new day and you get to start over again okay people sometimes think that they don't have that option it's not available for them but I promise you it is and once again it's one of these things you have to have faith and believe and you cannot just say well day where's the evidence there is none except experience and the people who have succeeded have experienced it people don't you know have succeeded you have to have faith that this will work what I'm telling you try it I promise you you'll definitely if you enjoyed this little clip click the link below to watch the entire show

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. I love it. Yeah. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition Lighter Products, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row. What we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-carve cocktail. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love it as shown. This is our best place to be in LA. Rx-Helvisionon.rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave Betternode as hashtag. Ask Dave. Your 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions, diet, training, supplementation, I am being pros, competitions, whatever on your mind. It is all on the tables. Now, bring a Dave Palombo, Dave. We talked about what's going on in and outside of the bodybuilding roll-away took place yesterday. Outside of the bodybuilding world for those who have been seen it, big-lany, Mr. G, the official press conference yesterday on Ask Breyer. You know when you built it up, I was trying to think, I'm like, did I forget something big that happened in the bodybuilding roll-away? I was trying to figure out what it was and then, of course, told me that. I was like, how could I have forgotten the big, lany, Mr. G press conference? It's a pretty big deal, yeah. It's funny because it started out lany and Mr. G were on the same show after hours. Then, Mr. G was insulted by something lany, etc. On the show, we called him like a total asshole or a total moron. It's just he told him about it. Then they decided they were going to have a fight. Now they're hanging out in this mansion and like, bulk at all, and then Mr. G's bringing l'Cookies and posters and t-shirts and they're like best friends now. We've got the three of them. Rob Zilla, Lany and Mr. G. I'm like, how you get a fight this guy now? And then, so they want a fight. They're fighting. So they're going to fight and we'll see what happens. I think it's going to be a massacre, but my John Romano and I came up with a better idea. What they should do is, Mr. G's got the cookies. He should move the whole operation down the floor to like he originally was planning. And he should hire Lany and Rob Zilla to actually cook the baked cookies. And they could have like a whole business. And then if they were smart, they'd have someone coming and filmed the whole thing on a daily basis because it would be the greatest YouTube reality show of all time probably. Well, they got the whole crew down there. So I think it'll be a nice little collaboration there, Mr. G, and the Mr. G. And the Mr. G. You could have his own signature line and Mr. Cookies there. Big Lany and so yeah. For those asking, yes, right now, I guess the flight will be going on as planned. So stay tuned and I hear that Dusty Handsha is doing better. You know? Oh, okay, that's good news. Yes. Dusty Handsha, who obviously was choking on something a couple weeks ago and why the tearing is a soft against blood into his lungs. He got it in the morning. And he got it in infection. They had to put him like kind of an almost an induced coma or sedation at least. They he was on a ventilator. They pulled the vent from what I understand. I saw Ron Partlogina an interview with Russell and cider. And they pulled the vent to late. And now they just have, I think, a breathing tube. But it's not like he's not on a ventilator anymore. But he still not out of the woods because he got, you know, there was like, I guess he was eating a steak and they actually had a piece of steak in his lung. You know, or it was terrible. I mean, it was a freakyest accident. And I thought I'd get freaky things happen to me stupid things. That was the freakyest accident I've ever heard of. And you know, it was almost, it almost killed them. So I'm glad that he's still doing well. But obviously, you know, when you're down and out for that long, it's not like he's just going to like, all of a sudden, you know, come on Instagram and say, hey, I feel great. You know, he's probably not going to be able to talk for a while because his throat was so damaged and the esophagus had to be repaired. And it's got to heal, you know, takes time. You know, they say take a little wounds, but this is going to be, you know, it's going to take a while and I'm glad that everyone supported him on his go-fun me because that's what is the last of the pills. On right now, or what? Is the go-fun me still alive? Yeah, I think he raised a lot of over 140 grand. I think they raised it already. But, you know, his hospital bills, I think, could be $200,000 at the end of the day. You know, so. So then what we'll do is when this episode goes live, the first link you're going to see on the bottom is the go-fun me to help support us to hands, so everything you've going to do. And obviously, like you are, ex-Muslimation have done throughout, you know, the time that we've had, I guess, go-fun me or any other online platforms to help support our brothers and iron. We know you have stepped up in the past. You will continue to do so, especially in the case of someone like Dusty Hanchall. Let's go to the questions. The first two questions, of course, from the day below experience at the first question, they've always switched compounds, even if progress is still climbing. Climb in seven weeks into the EQ on your pre-contest and great results last two weeks. Should he keep rolling or did you always switch at the eight week mark? You never want to really wait until your progress holds. If you catch it before that, you constantly keep making gains. The truth in matters, I don't really know, and I don't know if anyone really knows, per se, what goes on at the engine receptor, but just anecdotally, just empirically from what I've seen and what I've witnessed with myself, when you switch compounds of every eight, six to eight weeks, you seem to get an untove at an antibiotics, a methamet, testosterone, testosterone, your body uses, you know, makes testosterone. It knows what testosterone is, but I'm talking about when you switch the antibiotic ages, the deck or the equipoids in the master, whatever you're using out of a debol, your body seems to have a better reaction to it. It kind of gets shocked by the new compound and will continue to grow, and you don't get that stagnation or plateauing period. Can you stay on the same two compounds for six months straight and still make gains? Yeah, probably you can. But do we see better gains when you do switch the antibiotics? I think we do. I don't know if it's been quantifiable in terms of how much better, but I noticed that when I would switch compounds, I would get better gains. And that's why in the off season, because I was staying on for longer periods of time, I would stay on off of the more toxic compounds, and I would switch to the, you know, the long acting injectables, and I felt that that worked better. And I, and I, and I felt like I didn't need to really raise the dosages that much. Just keep keep the bodies, uh, and you do receptor guessing, because remember all these antigens, all these of antibiotics, buying to the antigen receptor, but it, in different configurations, because they're all shaped differently, these molecules. So sometimes, like, and like I said, I don't really understand how the receptor necessarily works, and I don't think it's that important to know exactly how it, or if anyone really knows exactly how these compounds buying, maybe Patrick Arnold would. But they definitely buying the little differently, and when they do that, they seem to have a more, they seem to have a better effect, put it that way. Second question, again, from the deep long-low experience, that's not a question where we're using T3, make it harder to keep that off once I'm no longer using. You know, uh, if you use a compound like Claimbuterol or thyroid hormone, like side of L T3, to lose fat, and you lose the fat, okay? And you go to a maintenance diet now, where when we talk about maintenance, maintenance, major, taking in enough food, nutrition, where you're not going to gain weight, and I'm going to lose weight, okay? Because you're basically taking just enough to sustain your body, okay? It doesn't matter if you stop the Claimbuterol, and not because you're not looking to burn fat. In other words, just because you stop Claimbuterol, doesn't mean you're going to get fat. That's why I tell people, people say, oh, I don't want to take Claimbuterol, I don't want to take T3, and I don't want it because I'm afraid after the diet's over, I'm going to rebound and gain all this weight back. Now, you're going to rebound and gain a ton of weight, fat weight, if you eat terribly, okay? And I see this all the time. I see people then and women after the show, some people go back, they get to a regiment of eating schedule again, and they're eating more food, obviously, but they're on a regiment of schedule. They're training, they're doing everything they're supposed to do, they're following the taper off program that I usually give them, and they look great. And I can see them six weeks being off drugs, and they still look amazing because they're eating well, they're training, they're doing it. And then I see other people after the show, they just go crazy, they eat everything inside, they take a month off into the gym, because they got to rest their bodies, and they're bodies go to shit because of that. And that has nothing to do with the rebound and go off the clambuterol inside of them. It has to do with the fact that you've given up your protocol of being regimented and getting your meals in and small quantities throughout the day, training. This body building is not a seasonal job. You know what I mean by that? It means like, you live in the north, and it snows during the winter, you might have a job of snow shoveling for a couple months. And then the summer comes and you're off, right? That doesn't happen to body building, there's no off period, okay? When you're off, and you go off through the reservation, so to speak, your body is going to decompensate, and you're not going to look as good. So you can't just say, okay, great. I just won my show. I'm going to go crazy now and party for two weeks, like two or two months, maybe more people do that for. So the answer to the question is now, you will not regain a ton of weight or rebound to a full-legged individual unless you do stuff that would warrant you doing that, you know? Let's go to the Instagram question again. If you're not already following this on Instagram, the handle is official underscore our ex muscle. If you're watching us to the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below, hit the notification bell. If you're not going to miss any of our show segments or upcoming content uploads, as always, we appreciate your support. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below. Obviously, that's going to help us and as mentioned throughout the year, content season all seasonally, appreciate all the support that you give us in doing what it is that we do. I was going to make a miracle. Dave after recently being prescribed blood pressure meds and 49 years old, is it safe to go back on my TRT dose of 200mg of NN8 per week, or have you got any views on my pack back to TRT? I don't really see too many elevated blood pressures from just like an off-wormer in replacement dose at testosterone. So if you're on 100 200mg a week, I don't really notice that the blood pressures go, now what happens is a lot of times when guys going to HRT to hit, that's usually they're around there at 40, 45 years old, they go on HRT, and then they notice that blood pressures up when they go to the doctor. Well, the truth is that their blood pressure probably went up well before they started the HRT. Because when averages as we get older, our blood vessels lose the elasticity. And when they do that, they can't open and close as well and accommodate fluctuations in what the body would normally do. Not really if the body senses high blood pressure, it opens up the blood vessel walls and lets a little more volume go through it and lowers the pressure. So our bodies kind of lose that ability. But I think a lot of people don't realize it until they, and then they don't really go to the doctor, they don't really check. And then all of a sudden they want to go on HRT, the doctor's checking their blood pressures all the time, and they notice, hey, I'm a little high. Well, maybe it's from the HRT, usually it's not. It's usually not. So I wouldn't worry about it too much. These are good questions and a lot of these questions that I came from the day to let them experience it happen. If a lot of you don't know what that is, I have an app online, called the Day Plum Experience, you can subscribe to it for $29 a month. You have access to all the writings I've ever done, all my videos in one place. We put up a workout every single week. I answer everyone's questions on the app that they have, and I do it in a public forum on there so that everyone sees everyone's questions and everyone's answers. So you can kind of learn from that. And then once a week we do a special Q&A video. Like we're doing now except it's specifically for the app, extra information. I picked the best questions and I do that once a week. So it's a really good resource that you guys want to check it out. It's kind of like having a coach in your back pocket. And you can check that out at either the App Store or the iPhone Store or the Android Store. A lot of people have been asked me about it once again. It's a really good thing to keep your education going. It's kind of like a continuing education course. Good one here from relentless Luca. And I know there have been whispers conversations about a possible leap priest comeback. The question is who's winning in the comeback? Leapreased or Lila Brada? I think that leap priest I don't think we in the Brada is it is making any comebacks. But you know he he looks great. I saw some you know I see some everyone's what I put up some videos. He's rap on me. There was a picture of him in Hunter. They posted on Instagram. Yeah, maybe you can pull that up Tyler from what is it on Hunter's Instagram? It's actually on ours. I'm a reporter so you can pull it up our our our personal Instagram. Yeah, you know, Leap. I've seen Leap over the years and every couple years he puts up a bunch of pictures of himself and the guy is unbelievable. He's still ripped. He still has good physique. He doesn't look really as in the injuries. I don't think he has any inclination to come back. Obviously he's a lot older than Leapreased. I think that we will see Leapreased at some point in time. Up on that say look at that look at those legs. Leap. Leap is like me in the sense that he loves to take care of himself. He eats really well. He trains and you know, I wish I had time to train but his kids had grown up already. You know, so he has that time. He's not making any comeback anytime soon but I promise you that I think that Leapreased will be on stage. I don't think this year but I think we'll get to see him next year because I think his arm is feeling a lot better from the next surgery he had and I give him one more year. I think 2022 will see Leapreased compete at least one more time. Let's go to team band man 62. Dave the best gym atmosphere you've ever trained at. It goes on to say how he's trained, you know, at goals. When he was lost, Vegas, Jay had moved there, trained first first on the class of victory. So of the different venues, maybe some of the more prestigious venues that you've trained out loud to say the best bodybuilding atmosphere you've trained at. It's going to be a cut. This is a cultural thing to answer but it is true but the most hardcore place I've ever trained where the guys were the most focused on training that's really it was when I was in jail believe it or not and we trained outside there was a canopy over us and we trained either a 90-degree heat or it was freezing cold because I was there for six months it was like five months it was we I got both seasons and then those guys trained hardcore man I don't think anyone trained harder than that anywhere I've gone but in a conventional gym setting I would say that first of all nothing can inspire you more than goals gym that is back in the 90s. I mean that place was like even now it's still got great energy but back then there was so many superstars there. I mean if you couldn't get a good work out there and push your hardest there was something wrong with you. Having said that on a regular basis where I trained where I I thought the hardest core atmosphere always was with bad friends at Paris gym and that's just because there were so many good people there and even the regular guys who trained there all trained like they were and no one can most of them didn't compete but they all trained as they'll they were. So you couldn't just like went out and do a bad work at them because everyone's watching everyone in all times there so it that was on a regular basis that was a very motivating atmosphere. Now I've gone to gyms where I've had really hardcore workouts like sporadically throughout you know my all the Metro Flex gym I mean come on you can't you that that one's great I went to the Metro Flex out in where was it in Arizona was really really hardcore. I've been at mid-city gym and Manhattan downstairs in the basement. I mean that place legends Arnold used to train there. It's literally you walk down these steps you think you're going into into hell basically and there's these little rooms it looks like someone dug about with a shovel. Those ceilings are really low and epic they're super hardcore equipment all the guys are hardcore it's like it's a sweat it's like a sweat shop and there but you know what you get a great workout 19th Street gym and Manhattan was really great. I never was at Johnny Latsby I heard that was a very good gym too. I used to train to place Metro fit not Metro Flex Metro fit up in a pellen manner up in Westchester back in the 90s there was a enormous amount of bodybuilders who went through that to a Bob brush can used to go there and take pictures of people in that place. I actually worked there for a little while too. So there's been a lot I mean strong shapeally gym back in the day when Bob was in his heyday you know that was a great gym. Deer Park old gym was great. I really used to know all the good hardcore places that I went there but like on a regular basis where I train bed frances probably the best place if I lived in California obviously I would have been a gold vendingist because the energy there was electric too. Good I ain't the pro tough race. I got to mention also Tony Dardy's gym 247 in Melbourne super hardcore. I love that gym I really do. You got to get him on one of these days I know he's been posting a lot. I guess in Australia maybe even in the United Kingdom still very much a struggle for some of these gyms to stay open. The continued of their business so I know when you've been pushing very hard and obviously I had a lot of support to the body but in world so maybe want to check in with our friend over there in Australia. Let's go to I am the pro Chris bodybuilders used to use. Lacing a lot more than they do today. Why do you think that is more than the loop non-discount? Lacing is a very fast acting dioritic so a lot of guys would use that especially if they have a lot of water they want to dump real quickly. I think people are a little more educated today back then back then they just would go for whatever work strongly you know there's strong diorites. Now we know the science of what's going on and we know that like this passive sparing diorites like diaside or moe doretic these dioretics have the same ability to push water out of the body but they also are potassium sparing meaning that they you're not going to lose potassium. The problem with Lacing is or biomex or some of these domex is that you lose potassium and sodium so if you do cram or take too much it's hard to know what what electrolytes to put back should I add sodium back should I put acid actually I bolted them back so I think that there's a whenever you make things too complicated and if something goes wrong because I always think about what what problems could occur and because you have to when it's anticipate that otherwise you can run into trouble. Now you might do it 10 times and never have a problem and then the 11th time you're at the Mr. Limpid competition you went of cramping you don't know how to fix the problem so I think a lot of guys nowadays just realize the diaside is a better dioritic and they save the Lacing so if you mix or domex for like emergency situations where they're holding water at the last minute and they want to get rid of it very quickly because Lacing doesn't last that long your body but it works very fast which is sometimes not a good thing because you can sometimes dehydrate the muscle doing that so I think if you're going to do things on a slower you know situation in a slower manner which I think works better I like to use a diaside it's very reliable it pretty much gives you the same results every single time and once again if you take too much and you eat a little salt and you neutralize the problem. It's good at tipping our boil the complete list of factors that affect the ones maintenance calories and how much does hyper hypothyroidism really affect it? Can you say that again I haven't trouble hearing you a little bit? Yeah yeah no the complete list of factors that affects ones maintenance calories you got that part right? Yeah okay and then beyond that how much does hyper slash hypothyroidism really affected? I've said this the last couple weeks that we've had answered this question you know the thyroid hormone is kind of like you know necessary for your metabolic rate to work properly but basically what all it does is turn on the machinery in your body the machinery being the muscle cells the metabolic enzymes that metabolize things your body's genetic ability to oxidize fats and and do all that great stuff so if you have a lot of equipment okay that can can do a lot of fat burning a muscle building having enough thyroid hormone to turn that equipment on is necessary now if you overturn it on obviously you could burn a lot of extra calories up obviously but you also risk obviously losing some muscle if you don't have a turned on enough meaning a thyroid is too low hypothyroid then you have all the great equipment you can't use it all because it's not all turned on so that's why thyroid hormone you really want to get it into you know you want to get it into the normal range you don't want to go too too high you can go high normal but you don't want to go too too high because then you want to get you can risk you know having other negative ramifications sometimes harder than me is if you if you amp it up too quickly also if it's too slow or your thyroid hormone is too low you might not be getting the most out of your body but by and far thyroid hormone any of itself does not control how much fat you burn it just basically turns on your body's ability to do what it's supposed to do but how good you are burning fat or building muscle is really determined by muscle you know and what's going on in the net up at the enzymes in the muscle cells themselves and a lot of that genetic and a lot of that has been built because the more muscle you've built over the years the better your metabolism okay I believe that people who have done aerobic type or highly aerobic activities you know like running like I did or swimming or cycling early in their career might have changed their metabolic enzyme make up in the muscle cells as well because I think I became a better fat burner because I because of all the running I did but you know having said that you know you still need normal thyroid function now I was I was interested to find I went back and looked at all my thyroid hormone prior to my thyroid being removed and I never naturally had a very high T3 level I had no it was in the normal range but I was in the normal low and even now you know when I'm on replacement I'm in normal low but I feel totally normal so my body probably doesn't need super high thyroid output matter fact of I did I probably wouldn't be able to put any muscle on it would I would be running too fast you know so your body knows where it needs to be and and how can you tell where the right place to be is because of your TSA thyroid stimulating hormone levels are normal okay and the normal range then you know you're producing enough T3 so even though my T3 output is not high normal it's low normal my TSH is normal so that would that and even on in even on replacement therapy that means that my body my hypothernalm is to my brain says we got enough thyroid in this hormone in this body we're gonna keep TSH out put on the lower side now if my body sends that hey we don't have enough thyroid hormone to turn everything on I would my pituitary and hypothernalm is to put out more thyroid stimulating hormone to turn up thyroid function now because I don't have to thyroid I have to actually take more replacement but that doesn't seem to be the case so thyroid hormone is not the the dictator of how fast you metabolism it just turns on the machinery so to speak let's go to a stilatiousness when training to bring up a lagging side let the right we are told to do you need the unilateral movements but which side should we train first and do we do the same amount of reps so I guess in general if you want to answer that but what would your advice be to your clients who are looking to bring up lagging parts I always tell people when you're doing you know lateral movements you always do the week side first and you limit the amount that the the strong side could do by what the week side does so my left side's my week side and I do I do eight curls with my left arm even though I might be able to do 12 curls with my right arm I stop in eight because I want to keep my symmetry correct likewise and I have a lagging body part I might do a couple an extra set or two at the end of the workout just to give it a little more work if I think it's necessary when I squat I used to always my left leg was bigger than my right leg so I would always lean into my right leg or push my right leg consciously and didn't even pay attention to my left leg because I knew my left leg was going to unconsciously work anyway so I try to give more mind muscle connection to the week or side and say the with compound moments if you do if you do you know bench pressing you know because you don't want to do just dumbbells you want to use barbell presses and you know your right sides a little smaller then you might want to really just focus on pushing from the right side the left side is going to work anyway and it'll enable you to kind of get a better mind muscle connection to the week or side good a Leon 45 it through considering that it's easier to keep the muscle then to create it why do most body builders use more gear and higher dose of drink pre-contest than offseason I you know I don't know that's good question I you know offseason I try to keep the dosages to two compounds you know like two and a bottle like a testosterone and an anabolic and then maybe some growth home I don't ever use like three compounds very rarely maybe just in the beginning some of them might throw a few debolves to have something like that but I try to keep it to compounds because I find that your body can eat better because the limiting factor offseason a lot of times not the drugs it's the ability to get that food down if you're taking toxic compounds or or short acting you know injectables a lot of times they kill your appetite and if you can't eat you can't grow so now pre-contest appetite is never a problem right but you're just starving all the time so I don't mind using three compounds or four compounds pre-contest because I'm not worried about the appetite being destroyed and I'm not worried about receptor overload because at this point we're not growing we're just trying to maintain muscle give the body a hard look and I think that that's the that's the difference at least in my mind of why people use more drugs pre-contest versus offseason at least that's my rationale I don't know other people I think some people in their mind think that they can actually grow muscle while they're ready getting ready for a show if they take more drugs of course that's not the case because you're on a limited amount of resources because you're trying to deprive your body of what it needs a little bit a little bit right so you lose body fat every week and in doing so your body's first priority is not going to be the build muscle it's just trying to survive so to speak you're trying to maintain muscle while burning body fat so don't confuse the two processes or you're going to accomplish nothing essentially for a couple of more questions let's go to ADV Sherman Sorrows good one here I almost feel like and tell me if you want to do this the biggest myths relating to insulin and HCH you feel like that's a solid video already when I give a quick primer here well I think that people think that insulin builds muscle like like raw hormone does which it's really not the case I mean it indirectly builds muscle by driving nutrients into the muscle cells so they can be consumed but assuming you know your body has enough insulin you know taking exogenous insulin is not going to slowly make your bigger now if you're taking GH and your blood sugars are running high and you add insulin in whether it be a long acting initially or if you need a short acting it's some of your bigger meals you might grow better now because you're absorbing your food but it's not really the insulin that's building the muscle because insulin just pushes carbohydrates and amino acids to a certain degree into the cells it's not doesn't have a direct muscle building in fact like like IGF one would you take a shot of GHGH goes to liver release liver release is IGF one IGF one bind size if one receptors on damage muscle fibers and you get and you get a hyperplasia effect okay we know that that's a direct effect of you know of GH and IGF one insulin doesn't do that so I think a lot of people are confused by that fact that that insulin is you know a growth agent you know where it's not whereas growth hormone really does cause indirectly of course via IGF one it does cause muscle growth and so that's you gotta keep that in your brain last question anyway so anyway so it's so it's all about myths so we're talking about it so that that's a that's a big myth you know also I think it's a myth that the more GH you take the bigger in your gonna get because at some point remember GH just causes your liver to release IGF one some point your body just can't produce any more IGF one so you could take 20 I use GH it might be just as effective as taking eight I use a GH the only thing you're gonna get with with 20 I use GH is a lot more fluid retention so I think that's that's a big myth people think that the more you take the more you're gonna you know build muscle and and once again really what happens is you're just getting more side effects you take 20 I use a GH today IGF one is gonna run high and IGF guaranteed you're gonna hold the excess of fluid and I guarantee your fingers are gonna be non-molded time and you don't want that so remember it's all about balance that's taking an effective dose without overdoing it I feel like that would make a great episode of Guru talk with you and me Losh yeah that a great topic sure definitely alright final question from Manzo low my question is what would you do if you're on Logan came to you at 18 years old instead I'm going to start running gear would you coach in meaning make sure that he's doing everything the correct way or would you demand he not do a cycle even if you knew he would sneak around and do it anyway yeah you know it's one of these dilemmas of parenthood right you know your door to come some tells you she's pregnant right or somewhere your son wants to take steroids for you know there's a million different you know it's a tough situation you know and obviously the good thing is that I come from a background where I understand all this stuff and I know the right way to do things and the wrong way to do things so obviously I would hope he would come to me and tell me he wants to do it and if he's gonna do it at least let me supervise it you know what he means so that nothing gets done you know where he's gonna harm himself would I be happy about it now not in 18 you know but what I try to discourage him absolutely if I knew he wasn't gonna be discouraged and it was gonna happen anyway and he's not living under my roof or whatever and he's you know graduated from high school ready then I would at least try to you know guide him in the right direction I don't want my son to think that he has to go someplace else on the street to find out about things you know what I mean because then I wouldn't be a being a good parent you know at the same point I'm not going to say hey you know what my son is really good at football I bet if I put him on a little animal or a little you know a wind stroll he'll he'll he'll get a scholarship that would be on my part you know crazy you know so you got it you know if it's the other way around where my son's coming to me because he says I want to do this and how do I do it the right way that then I I can't turn my back on him you know obviously I would hope that that wouldn't I wouldn't have to have the conversation with him but you never know it could happen by daughter could come to me and say that and that's even a worse you know scenario in my head but you know you have to be a parent and if you're going to be a good parent I guess you have to at least give them the negative ramifications of it and then if they're going to if they really want to do it and they're of age where they can make that decision then I would obviously help them do it the right way you know that is going to do for this episode of as Dave we have a lot a lot of content right now on the channel we have yesterday's episode of after hours Monday as episode of heavy muscle radio we talked about classic physique dark horse and if anyone has a realistic shot of knocking a crisp bun set off the perch in the classic physique division a couple of rants from over the past weekend a lot of content right now again if you haven't already done so subscribe below hit the notification million not going to miss any of our shows segments or updates for Tyler short and day below I'm going to be for rookie we'll see you next time

Day Palomo here with a very special Independence Day thought Today's July 4th, 2018 and guys it is Independence Day that means I want you guys to declare independence from your life That's right. If you don't like your job If you're not happy in your relationship If you're bodybuilding and fitness goals and not going the way they want declare independence from them give it up And it now start over say hey, what do I really love to do? What makes me happy? What gives me pleasure? What makes me be a passion about what I do and then do it? Don't be afraid. Don't become a slave to the institution Remember the United States declared independence from the British we need to decide we weren't gonna find Answer their war machine. We weren't gonna give them money to help get them out of debt Okay, because we were Thousands and thousands of miles away. We're like we're gonna make our own life and that's what you guys have to do I know a lot of you guys are in jobs. You don't really love you want to be maybe coaches You want to be bodybuilders you want to be fitness stars you want to be social media You know experts you want to be youtubers Guess what do you love? Make today today you declare independence Okay from everything that you don't like to do I know it sounds radical. I know you're planning well maybe I'll do it in six months I'll do it in a year guess what you don't do it today you'll never do it and you know what you'll thank me because when you make that statement and you say to yourself This is the day I take control of my life Guess what everything changes because you know it's the old saying I love to quote Wayne dire When you change the way you look at things the things you look at change and that includes your life Your livelihood your job your profession your hobby if you want to call it It could become your profession. This is the day to do it. Okay, we're celebrating it We're blowing fireworks off Reat and food and barbecue and all the great stuff that the American population loves to do and you know what you don't have to be from America to do this You could be in the Middle East now you could be in China you could be in Australia declare independence from your life take control do you love that's my message for today Guys happy for the July and tomorrow is a new day a new dawn a new career

After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with brought to you by Spices Nutrition on Dave Polumbau. And today's guest is a special one. He's our 2020 IMB Tampa Pro Classic Physique, men's champion, John Tray Campbell, welcome to the show. Thanks for having me. Congratulations on that big win, man. That was a tough fight. That was a battle you guys had up there. Yeah, it was. I kind of knew that it would be once you know you received the guys backstage and definitely wasn't easy, but I'm happy that it wasn't easy at all. Yeah, yeah. Now you turned pro two years ago to North American, but embody building. Yeah, yeah, certainly like anyway, what made you decide to do men's physique? I mean to do classes in Tuesday. Yeah, so I wanted to, I knew I had, I could be competitive, but I wanted to also make it to the Olympia. We kind of talked my caution. I talked back and forth and said we can fit down to Classic. Definitely with our build and eventually get to them, Libya. By the way, and that's what we did, right? So we did our first pro show and clearly it was a good change and categories. Now why did you wait there so long before you actually got under pro stage? Because a lot of guys like nowadays it's like boom, damn boom right on to the pro stage, you know? Yeah, yeah, but first of all, what's up with family math? So we had my daughter, my wife was actually pregnant at North American's. Oh wow. Yeah, so that's very tough while she's eating pizza. I'm always there. I'm just looking at her like why are you doing this to me? Yeah, yeah. So yeah, we had our baby, Eliana, not too long after that. So I wanted to take a break. So my family had been eventually my culture saying hey, we need to step on stage. We need to step on stage. So eventually, you know, we went back to it and clearly it was a smart move. Yeah, yeah, it's amazing that you can make the, you know, what you cut off for Classic now, like 205, some of that. Classic is cut off as 127 for my height. That's, that's going to be tough for you to suck down into that way category. Yeah, yeah, it can get tough and growing, but that's what this sport is about. Yeah, here's the top five call out from Tampa where you beat the divine Wilson. And like, you know, in a bunch of these other guys in this top five, everyone was really good. I actually was very impressed with the with the Tampa Pro Classic lineup. You know, there wasn't a lot of name guys. I mean, divine honestly people kind of knew who he was, but the quality was good. And so when you got up there and you have backstage and you're looking these guys over. Because you know, I don't, I don't buy into it. I know everyone looks at each other over. Did you think, hey, I got a chance to win this, I mean, Chris Hunt obviously had won a pro show a couple weeks earlier. And divine obviously has been up there before as well. Were you, did you think you had a shot at this thing? I was getting into my head to be honest. I would check out the other guys and look at myself and just think like, man, I know I, I'm, I'm gifted. I can brought a great package, but look at these guys. And it wasn't until I started seeing the pictures after pre judging, so I'm my confidence starting getting going up there. And I'm just like, okay, yeah, I'm going to be one or two at this show. Not like I said, everybody brought it. But I knew that my package that we brought was worthy of one or two. Absolutely. I mean, this Frank double by suppose I love it. I mean, this is this is a great front double. I mean, that's pretty hard to beat in the whole division. I mean, I think you, you can stand next to, you know, any of those guys, Chris Bumstedt, you know, with that pretty unannually, you know, I think that these guys can, are going to be a little worried when they see this shot of next in the month stage here. Yeah, I appreciate that, you know, it's definitely, uh, hard work that we put in and nothing, wrong with, I mean, Chris in, uh, Brandon, they have some great physics, but I'm ready to come for that top spot. Now is this it for that you're going to shut it down until the Olympia or you're going to be hit another one. We were, we were planning for a show, but we are going to shut it down and prove on what the judges told us to improve one. So we can be, you know, take top five at least at our first Olympian Olympic show. So yeah, we're going to shut it down focus on the Olympia. You know, what we do. I don't know if you're typing over there and not, but I can hear it. So just kind of like, don't type. I get y'all that because I type, but I got a full stuff up, but let's go to one of the show people you're your Instagram for second because you got a great nickname, holy hoax. Yeah, and I've been saying it all my wrap up show that I love the nickname. What, where did that come from? I have a friend that I've kind of ran into online and we're in this mainstream group. And he would always say, man, you're like the holy hoax. You're like the holy hoax. I don't see anybody who likes to do like just out here doing what you do and you're like the holy hoax in. I just ran with it, you know, I just attached to me and I think it's going to continue to go with me for the rest of my life. And I need to reach out to him and take them. So yeah, absolutely. That was a good nickname. You know, it's hard to get a good nickname in our sport. But that's great. And he's getting involved in religion and, you know, the little kind of preaching stuff you're doing. My faith. It's kind of long story. I mean, maybe I will share that some other time. But I went down a wild road. And I went into military and met this young guy who. I just kind of looked up to because he, I say, young because I went a little bit later. And I'm there with 18 or old 20 year old. Sure. I was going to about his faith in he had a Bible and I was interested. And, you know, we started talking and he really shared me share this faith. And in the military, we didn't really have anything to do. But it's read. So I started to pick him for the Bible and they just started, you know, leading me to Christ. And yeah, it's interesting. I've just been on this road of, you know, him giving God glory through, you know, every platform I can. And I think if I'm lucky to be on this big platform and get him going, what I do. Sure. And do you notice that when you found God that like it really changed the direction of your life? Oh, big time. Bodybuilding in it. You know, vice versa with my faith. How strict you have to be. It helps both areas of my life. So definitely with my faith. It has helped me be more strict and bodybuilding as well. And those were around myself with too. So yeah, those both hand in hand kind of like help each other. It's interesting. So the house strict, you have to be in, you know, society or you can't be just out party and you know, you can help lead somebody else to Christ who is struggling with party and or whatever. So yeah, right. Have you, have you helped other bodybuilders? You know, I hold it put the water bottle down. You're a might know because you're a microphone is really sensitive. And I, I pick it up like over a little cranky bullseye. So I want people to, he this is very important. That people want people to hear this, you know, really clearly. And I think it's important that people understand that people, look, we hear about suicide. We hear about people who have just lost faith. And what do you tell someone who's like down there, look like that. I know. It's tough because there are certain things that I don't struggle with when it comes to the pressure and stuff like that. But I do try to search scripture because everything in scripture can relate back to what you're struggling with and live. And to answer your question, I've had many people reach out to me and thank me for sharing words or sharing, you know, my testimony and stuff like that. But depression is real and I found that going back to scripture and sharing Christ with them and praying about it, ultimately, before I talk to them, has led me to help others with whether depression and whatever they're really struggling with. I'm not going to say I'm out here saving every single life out here, but I do share my faith with the best of my ability. I'm a little jealous. I love that story they gave you in Tampa, though. Yeah, you see how I'm holding it? Yeah, yeah, yeah, it looks like a cross. The funny thing is that how to heck, did you get that thing back on the airplane? Well, what's funny is I didn't fly. Oh, you drove. You're smart. You're very smart. We're not going to get COVID because that's true. Yeah, yeah, that's my wife and I, we actually drove and we did a little vacation out of it and sightseeing on the way back to Indiana. So we stopped in Nashville and I had dinner and stuff like that. So it was pretty awesome to share that with my wife, you know, traveling. That's great. And if anyone bugs you, you could just pull the sword out on it. Yeah, exactly. I thought about that. And what's funny is my first show that I ever won. It gave me like four swords for every show I'm getting all these swords. Oh, that's actually pulled that out real quick. That seems to be the new thing. Yes, sirs. When I was coming up on the scene, there was only one show that gave away a sword. It was the X caliber shell and a cow pointed, which of course, X caliber is a sword. I was always jealous that I never, I never want to sword nowadays. It seems like a lot of shows and noise swords. But it is a pain in the neck that you have to feel it. I'm glad we drove. Yeah. Anyway, well, you know, I want to just congratulate you, D'Ontre and the big win. And obviously, good luck at the Olympia way that this year. I think that your tremendous potential to do really well. I appreciate you having me on today. Okay, guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with Brought to you by species nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for D'Ontre Campbell. We'll see you next time.

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day for Lumbo and today is Thursday July 26th, 2018, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I was on record last year from the start of the season talking about how I thought it would go down as one of the craziest years on record. And less than two weeks from now, we might be about to get our first dose of crazy here in the 2018 season. If former women's physique international champ Autumn Swanson makes the jump over to figure, early this week news broke on social media that Swanson was openly debating whether or not she would jump into the figure division at the Tampa Pro, which would definitely add a little bit of intrigue to Tim Gardner's mid-Summer Extravaganza. At this point, I'm still not sure if Swanson even knows what her plans are, moving forward, but she's squares that I convinced her to stay in physique. But with so many athletes changing divisions now on both sides, I can't say that it would come as a major shock if she does decide to end up taking her talents in another direction. Personally, I think she's made for a physique. Earlier this week, I heard on the news that the Powerful Jackpot was capping out somewhere around 512 million. But why do I get the feeling that Sean Clarita never even poked his head out of the gym long enough to know what all the fuss was about? Right in early Monday morning, we saw the 212 giant killer doing what he does best in his latest pre-lippiate back day massacre. As phase 3 of this year's preparations, finally start to get underway. But Reader is still riding that huge tsunami of momentum he created back in May when he pulled off the biggest night of his professional career with his win at the New York Pro. So as long as he can ride that hot streak at the biggest, I don't think I'm the only one who can see a scenario where he puts himself in intention for a top-by finish. Now that people are getting their security clearance as revoked, left and right at the White House, and we're inviting Putin over for a steak dinner, I think it's time to get ourselves a new secretary of defense in Washington. And I think Jim Manion should pull some strings with his people in DC to get my man, Charles Dixon in front of you. Rumor has it that the tank is bowerling down the back half of this year's Olympia Prep. Feeling as good as he's ever has in a long time, but that is chances heading into the Grand Finale. Let's not forget how good this guy was to start the season where he absolutely lit up the month of March with his runner up at the Arld and big win at the Indie Pro. And if we even get a slightly improved version of Dixon on the Olympia stage, I think he's probably good enough to push for a top-by finish. Last weekend, I may or may not have stayed up until one of the morning watching the world series of poker, while secretly thinking that maybe I can make it on one of those tables, if I manage to get on a hot street. But until I can get together the money for the million dollar buy-in, I think I'll just focus on important things. Things like what three-time men's physique Olympian Dean Balibus is doing. The two-time top-10 finisher has been absolutely tearing it up in the gym over these last few weeks, as preparations for the next round of his 2018 are starting to shape up. For one reason or another, we still haven't seen Balibus hit that tip-top peak performance yet this season. But when you've got this sort of talent at your disposal, you're never really more than one good punch away from getting right back into the fight. Sometimes I wish I could find a way to merge bodybuilding and basketball, so I can make my own super team to watch some of these guys just go at it. And if I'm making a 12 super team, I think it goes without saying that my number one overall pick would certainly be second year champ and waiting. Derek Lundsford, less than two months out from making his return trip to Vegas, flexed Lewis's air parent seems like he's guiding, scarier by the day. Updates this week from team 1'sford down there at MI 40 gym might be the craziest ones we've seen yet. Because all of a sudden now, this kid is showing all sorts of muscle and detail that flat out wasn't there before. I don't think anyone's under any illusions that he might actually be flexed Lewis this year and when the Olympia, but the way things are going now, saying that he could potentially end up a close second doesn't seem all that crazy when you think about it. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day for Lumbo, reminding you to always feature to your passions and make sure to follow us and Facebook Twitter and Instagram.

What's up, Bodybuilding fans! Day Palombo here with an RX Muscle News Update. Today's topic is Derek Lundsford, one of the most compelling two-twelfth competitors in the division. He turned pro last year by winning the NPC USA Championships overall. He then qualified one his first pro show, a week or two later and Tampa went to the Olympia with top five there. People attacking this guy is one of the greatest new talents in the two-twelfth division. He's got youth on his side. He's only improving. He's only been in the sport for a short period of time and he's made unbelievable improvements over that short period of a couple of years, which leads us to believe that this guy has a bright future now. If you look at some of the pictures that he just put out as he prepares for the Mr. Olympia Contest, which is in about eight or nine weeks now, he has made even greater improvements from last year to this year. He looks like a different person. It's unbelievable when you see the amount of sheer muscle size and mass he put on over the course of a year. I talked to Ben Pekalsky. It is podcast maybe a few weeks ago. He's been helping him out a little bit with his training at the gym. He is even super impressed. Ben was like, you're not going to believe what this guy looks like. I hadn't seen any pictures and then someone sent me these pictures that I guess are floating around. As you can look, I mean, his back is enormous. His front double bicep is deadly. He's got great legs. He's got a tiny waist. He's got good av insertions. His lats flare from the front. He's got great arms and shoulders and chest. He really doesn't have any weaknesses at this point. Obviously these pictures are not contest ready. He still has another eight or nine weeks to die off that fat that's on his lower back and his glutes and hamstrings. You can just see that the lats, trations are there already just because he's got such dense muscle in his lower lats. And you don't see that a lot in the true 12 division. I think this guy is going to be super dangerous. Can he beat flex? Lois, I don't know about that. But he certainly is going to be, I think, a top three guy in this year's Olympia. And if he comes in with the level of conditioning that we all want to see from him, who knows, he could push flex. I'll tell you why because this guy can make the way class. Flex is having to really suck himself down to make that way class. It really hurts as a physique. It flattens it out. Probably one of the reasons why flex is not going to be in the 212 division next year and he's going to move up to the open because he just can't make that way class anymore. It's not helping his physique. He doesn't look his optimal best. But once for his on the way up, young guy, a lot of talent, fresh muscle, skin his tight. That's the look we're looking for. And that's the look that the judges want to see on that stage. They want to see fresh new muscle. They want to see density. They want to see muscle separation. And they want to see improvement. And I think Lundsford is giving us everything that we could possibly ask for over the last couple of years. And he's got momentum behind them. So this is going to be an interesting experiment to see what Lundsford could bring to the stage. If I was a badding man, I would throw some money on Lundsford because he's got to be an underdog in the lineup. But at the same time, when you see these pictures, you got to be super impressed. So what happens eight weeks from now? No one knows because Willie brings his best. I don't know. He's been very consistent up until this point last year to hit those three shows. That was a dream season. Turn pro, winning the USA Championship, win your first pro show, top five at the Olympia. Can't get much better than that. Aside from winning the Olympia, and that's almost unheard of. So this year coming into the Olympia, if he can move up to that top three, or higher, even maybe the runner up position, who knows, maybe a surprise win, this could be one hell of an exciting two-to-to-all Olympia, which would certainly be retribution for the fact that Arnold Schwarzenegger and his crew have removed the two-to-all division from the Arnold Plastic for 2019. We still don't know why, but this would certainly at a level of excitement that they may want to second our question their decision to remove it. So once again, Derek Lutzford, one of the most exciting two-to-to-all competitors on the circuit now, it's only a shame that some of the irony of body modes that in that 12-to-to-to-all division like Heidi Schupe and a couple of the other guys won't be able to get visas to come out to the Olympia, but I still think it's going to be one hell of a battle up there. This could be Jose Raymond's final year. I'm sure he's bringing his best. So I'm excited to see the two-to-to-to-to-all guys as much as the open and the classic body mode is because we're seeing a tremendous level of talent rising up the ranks and hey, it doesn't get much better than that. I'm Dave Palabo, with an RX muscle news update.

Wake up everyone, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Pellon, but today is August 20th, 2018 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Does anyone else out there remember how you used to be able to get those cheat codes for video games way back in the day? Well, I'm starting to think that Charles Griffin might have just found a cheat code of his own. Less than a month away from hitting the Olympia stage for the first time, Griffin looks like he's found some new way to hack the system. Because this dude is on another level right about now. Anyone who's followed his career since his amateur days probably knew he was destined to do something big at some point in his career, but I'm not sure if even he would have told you that he'd be here right now this soon. And at this point I'm still not sure he's ready to be a top-ten guy given that we haven't seen him compete at this level yet, but I'll tell you what, I sure as hell wouldn't bet against him in Las Vegas. For the most part, with every superstar athlete, there's a point in their career where everybody and their mother can just look at them and know they're about to do something special. And I think we can probably all agree that Derek Lundsford is at that point right now. The man will lot of people in the know or predicting to be the heir apparent to the 2012 division is looking more dangerous by the day now. And from what I hear, from my people down there in Tampa, the pictures don't even begin to tell the story about how insane this guy is starting to look every day. Even at his absolute best, I still don't think I'd go as far as saying he's ready to give King Flex a serious title scare this year, but a damn sure wouldn't be shocked if we all came out of the weekend talking about the start of the Lundsford era that's coming down the pike in 2019. I remember when I lived back in New York that it would make me absolutely insane every time I drove on any of the roads because they were constantly under construction. And I don't know what the roads are like out there in Kuwait these days, but I can tell you for sure there's some heavy duty road work going down at Oxygen Gym. Over the weekend, big ramen crew drop the latest installment of their road to the Olympia series where we catch the big man trying to do his part to pay his road to a world title this year. At least right now, the last images that most fans have of ramen is from that insane postal in beer run that he had last year where he was flat out awesome in that win at the Arnold Europe. And assuming he built on that foundation, he had there, you have to think that he'll be right there in the running again trying to be one of the ones who goes down in history as the guy who knocked Phil Heath off his throne. For most athletes, you think that sealing the deal on the biggest win of their career would be a cause for celebration. But I guess Logan Franklin is into into celebrations. Over the weekend, we saw the men's physique all star jumped back into action right after his huge win at the Tampa Pro where I know he definitely opened up a lot of eyes but the way he came out and dominated. I don't know what clicked in his head over these last few months but all of a sudden it seems like this kid is operating at an entirely new level and given the fact that there seems to be a little doubt swirling around the top of the Olympia line up right now. It doesn't seem like it's entirely out of the question for a guy with his talent to come in and make a serious push for the title heading into a Libya weekend. If you're old enough to remember any of those old IBM commercials then you probably remember that old computer program they had called Watson. It was supposed to make your business smarter. But the next time I'm in the market for a tech guy, I'll probably just open up my phone and hit up Zain Watson because this guy is working with some super high technology right now. A little less than a month out for making his return to the Olympia stage, my people inside the Watson camp tell me that he's still sitting somewhere around the 225 pound mark and getting harder and crazier by the day. Even though he was good a few years ago this 2018 Olympia version of Zain Watson should end up being the best one yet so if you can manage to show off all that crazy detail without coming into flat or too full this guy has the right mix of tools to make a strong push for a top five finish. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day full on bow reminding you to always be true to your passions. Make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Yunsh Paragu, celebrate for the Worlds! Magnificent and Modest version of Patreon Our Million faces, Welcome back to our X-Muscles Iron Road to the Olympia 2018 brought to you by RedCon1. On the Palombo and today's guest is one of the most talked about men in the 2012 division The pictures updates we've been seeing from him circulating on Instagram have been nothing less than spectacular. Guy I'm talking about is Derek Lundsford. Welcome. Hey Vince for having me Dave, I really appreciate it. No, it's great. Hey you're from Indiana originally is that correct? Yep, I moved on here in Tampa and May. Yeah, so you came in and adjusted train over there with Ben Pocoski at the gym, huh? Yep, that was the main purpose, but you know my heart's always been in Florida and I love the warm weather. So I'm probably going to make an apartment move especially as well as the train is going and stuff, you know? What was it like growing up in Indiana as a kid? Was it, were you like a farm boy? Yeah, that's probably what made me a bodybuilder man. There's nothing else to do but besides you have to make your own farm, you know? Like it's cornfields, woods, like you'll hunt an in fishing, that's about it. So I took a liking to sports, you know, and that was something I could be driven for every day to like, you know, I was always driven to better myself and something and I took a liking to sports and there was one small little gym in our town and found love with it. Yeah, you would think to coming out of there you'd be like into, you'd be playing NFL football but the iron bug bit you and when the iron bug bites you there's no friend anything else recently. Yeah, I was at rest of where. I was a, I went to college as a small 141 power wrestler in my coach said, wow, I should have been a 133. That's crazy. And then I turned a bodybuilder man. Yeah, and we talked last year when we interviewed you, when you won that USA, you had that stellar run when you won tamper and then you placed top five with the Olympia. I mean, that was probably the dream season of dream season, huh? Yeah, for sure. I mean, I didn't know what to be most proud of. Obviously, the USA title, you know, Mr USA, I carry that around wherever I go. You know, I mean, of course, my pro debut win right after that, I was so proud of. Placing top five with Olympia is a huge accomplishment and especially rookie of the year. That's a one shot deal too. So I had a lot of things going from the last year for sure. But, you know, once I got to the Olympia last year and did place top five and stood next to those guys, that's when it really hit home, like, all right, now it's time that we really get serious about this. But I mean, not that I wasn't serious before, but this is this is there's potential here and we're going to go for it. And you know, you mentioned something very, that you never even thought about. You know, your whole USA title, Mr USA, over the champion of NPSU, it kind of got completely lost people forgot about it because you, you were clipsed so quickly with the win in Tampa that everyone just didn't stop talking about it. And you're almost took away the enjoyment of it. But in the sense who cares because you're now you're on the Olympia stage. Right? It's so funny that you say that because in the body building world, that guy forgot about all sort of, I mean, he's still people say, oh, Mr USA, he gave us my Instagram name and everything. But it's funny when I talk to people that are outside of body, but don't really know what body what it is. I'm like, yeah, I won Mr USA and then, oh my god, you're Mr USA and they flip out when I say, yeah, I placed the Olympia and they said, oh, okay, they don't really, they didn't like, they would just avoid it almost. Like, oh, yeah, that's sorry that you only placed fifth to the Olympia. Yeah, they're like, okay, that's cool and I'm like, but that's a way, you know what I mean? That's, that's B pinnacle. But they, you know, so I don't know, I guess one here, that's why I'm so appreciative of both, you know, I don't, I'm happy for everything happened. Anyway, I talked to, when I was talking about Ben Pekalska, I don't remember if it was when I did his interview for on his podcast, we were talking about you and he was just like so impressed with the way you looked and that, you know, and I know Ben, Ben doesn't get excited about too many people. So, and I hadn't really seen pictures of you yet and then obviously you started releasing these pictures prior to the Olympia and people just going insane over them. Are you shocked, as you, are you shocked as everyone else at the, at the leaps and bounds that you've made over these last two, three years in development? Um, looking back, knowing what I know about bodybuilding and how it, it's a process and it takes time. Yes, I'm very surprised. But to be honest with you, I was so ignorant coming into bodybuilding that I just thought, you know, it's true, the more you put into something than where you're going to get out. Like I've actually said, I don't know if I've ever said this public before, but I'm going to say it now. I said back in 2014 before I first competed in 2015, mind you, I was a Walter when you were roughly 150, some pounds. I said I would be at the Olympia by 2018. So I don't know, I was just ignorant and just very ambitious and said I'm going to get him out of life to this. But looking back, I'm like, whoa, like that much muscle, that quick, I don't know, I did just three hundred and sixty five days here, twenty four seven, I'm a bodybuilding, you know, I never stop, never, never, that's just who I am. That's my, that's my lifestyle man. I love it. So what do you weigh now? Right now, oh, today my weight dropped big time. I've been hanging around two, twenty, two, night, teen was my lowest this morning. I got down at two, sixteen. So we're, we're feeding up for tomorrow's life workout. The pictures that we saw on your, that have been released recently, some of these crazy back shots and I mean like that, what were you weighing in those pictures? Like, two, like, two, twenty, and each, two, twenty, two, twenty, two, but a lot of those were, well, the pants, most of those are after training. So I'll be right by two, twenty, five. Right. The reason I ask you that, and I'm setting you up is because the Olympia obviously could take place in a couple weeks, and then you're going to go back to training and growing again, like you did this pair here. Right. And the amount of gains that you've been making over the last couple years, I can't see you making the two, twelve class next year. I mean, would be this be something you'd hold yourself back for or would you allow your body to grow and go into that open class? Absolutely not. I'm not going to hold myself back from progressing. I think people like seeing my progress more than anything. Now here's the thing, Dave, is that there's a great opportunity for me in the two, twelve division, I know this, or I believe it anyway. But yeah, I'm not trying, if my body takes off like it has been the last couple years, I'm just going to let it do what it wants to do. I'm not trying to force it one way or another. You know, we're not pushing hard in the offseason and anything. We're just like, I'm just eat sweet train. So if my body takes off and it goes up to 260 or 270s to this offseason, which is probably what it's going to do, then yeah, I probably won't be coming back down in 2012. But if it hangs around that 250 mark or just over, then yeah, I might suck down in the two, twelve again, who knows? But I'm not forced to make anything one way or the other. I'm just letting my body go in progress, you know, do what it does to your ear, show the show. Which is great, because you want to be the best body builder you can be. And I think sometimes a lot of these guys hold themselves back and then they regret it later and then they try to start, you know, gearing or pushing towards the open and maybe they've lost some key years of growth, you know. Exactly. A lot of guys like wanting to do that, they go back and do the classic physique or whatever, you know, props to them, like that's their career. But I think that they're missing an opportunity to, you know, make, you know, build muscle tissue and make progress. Now, people are talking about you being a challenge to flex Lewis this year. Who obviously would be competing in his last two, twelve Olympia from the announcement he'd made. When you hear stuff like that, is that like get you, like get you excited in something like that? Do you feel that there's a reality that you can beat him at this show? Obviously we know flex, flex has a lot of trouble making that weight and he has to bring his, when he brings his weight down, sometimes he, he brings his physique down a little bit with it. Let me first say this, flex Lewis is an amazing body builder. That goes about being said. I mean, he is the greatest, two, twelve bodybuilder of all time. But I'm here to challenge him, you know, and I believe that I can and I will and yes, I 100% will you? I'm running the Olympia this year. There's no question about that. I mean, the top guys at the Olympia, anyone at the Olympia should feel that way. You know, I hear a lot of bodybuilder and it's good to have goals, you know, like realistic goals of, ah, place top five or place top six. But I'm here to win man and I know there's a lot of people that's like, well, he's you know, I'm there's whatever, but no, I'm here to prove that you don't have to pay your dues, you know, if you are the best bodybuilder on stage, you know, you'll come out ahead man and the thing is is when those are draw, I'm going to be gracious and I can promise you that and because I do respect all these guys and it's not just legs, but Jose David and Ma, you know, Ricardo, you know, Shankurita, all these guys man, they're incredible bodybuilders and probably even better people. So I never want to disrespect these guys or I don't intentionally because I like them for who they are, you know, as people. But the end of the day, you want to beat them with that, with the Olympian. Oh, I want to look at them. So yeah, there's no question about that. Like I'm coming to win and I expect nothing but to be the best on the stage, come September. What, what have you learned since you moved out to a tamper and you've been training over there at the MI 40 gym? I mean, what, what has changed about you training anything or is it just that it's more intense, you know. Man, the training is 100% 100-8 degree different and I was training like a city before I feel like now I'm really training smart and I'm training hard, but I'm being pushed by the best, you know. And another thing that people don't talk about a lot about prep, but it's so crucial is the mindset, man, like, you know, been and our friend Danny Vega who's going to change with this every day. Right. There are guys Quincy Weakler was in here last week and stuff. You know, some guys are attending in now. These guys are keeping my mind positive and they're not just going to smoke up my butt. I mean, they'll give me credit when it's due. But honestly, the, I've been as the most critical on me that I've ever had, which is great but every time I, every time we walk in the morning, we train at 7 a.m. big smiles on their face, shake hands, talk for 15 minutes, you know, get this good atmosphere going and then it's just the whole rest of my day is just positive and good, man, you know. And so if I see something like negative online, I scroll through it. It's like it doesn't even affect me. Right. What do you do? You go in the morning, you train at 7 a.m. Yeah, I'm sure you're probably done by 830, you know, what do you do the whole day? What do you do the rest of the day? What's the typical day like few days? I usually get back at 10 30. Yeah. No, our work, I'll go to a fly like 10. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So it's pretty intense training, but a, easily trained man, I come home, I post work out me a land and I lay down and rest immediately. So back to the recovery, get my, you know, nervous system calm down, everything. And then, you know, I definitely have another cardio session every day in the evening. But I, you know, I find things to do. Like I have a nice apartment here that has a nice pool all throughout. And I was just out there for like an hour. I just, I don't really try to do a whole lot to be honest with you. I'm just, I'm just like a monk body motor man. I've always been that way. Eat sleep, train, eat sleep, train. And I'm okay with that. I like that, you know, because it's just a few weeks of the year. And then after that, I get enjoy a vacation the rest of the year. Yeah. You know, something, I was just talking with Zane Watson and a few other guys. And they were saying the same thing the last four weeks. And I, and I, I can attest to this two when I was competing. It's like you just want the days to pass as quickly as possible because it's just not comfortable. And you know, you, you're, you're on the right track, but it's like it's, it's, it's the whole process is nerve-wracking out because you're down to really low body fat. You want to get it over with. And I think sometimes, if you can reduce the stress in your life during that time period, it tends to allow you to get through it a little bit better. Right, right. My girlfriend, she's going to grad school in Indiana, but she was down for the last two weeks along with my coach, James Brown. So like that was a huge stress relief. And like just a positive boost to, um, made a push last two weeks. I don't know, just this, this whole prep, I've said, um, it has been the physically, the hardest prep without a doubt. I've pushed myself harder than I ever have, but mentally, I've been, like, most positive and it's been the best. So it's been the easiest with the hardest prep I've ever had. Well, you look great. The pictures are outrageous. We've been seeing coming out of your camp there. And I have to believe that, you know, you're going to certainly be a very dangerous guy up on that two, 12 Olympia stage. And I'm sure Flex Lewis is taking note. And I'm sure some of these other top guys that beat you last year are probably taking note now. And, you know, you're adding a level of excitement to the two 12 division that maybe just wasn't there yet last year. This is a man. I love that. And I, I believe that, but here's a deal man, everybody did two 12's coming. Seriously, it's exciting man because there's no one, one little slip man and you're the back of the pack. And that's what anyone, because all these guys, I see them working their butts off day and day out. And I'm not scrolling through their feeds, but when they pop up online, you know, I see that they're getting it. And I love it man because what we need is this. We need an ambassador to sport, which I believe we have, that builds people up. That's been Flex Lewis the last six years. That's what I want to be. I want all of us, because one person is not going to build a community of people. Okay. It takes everyone. It takes all the pro athletes together to come together to build this industry up. And it starts to taught me. And I want to be that ambassador to sport that that brings us together and build each other up. Man, like I said, in the day when it comes to Olympia, I want to whip everybody. I want that title. But at the same time, let's do this together. It takes all of us to come together. There needs to be no hurt feelings or anything. We're all bringing it. We're all bringing our best. Nobody can be here fault for that man. So, oh, good luck with the rest of your prep. And we'll see you in Vegas there. Thank you Dave for having me appreciated. Sure. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of RX Muscles Iron Road to the Olympia 2018. Brought to you by RedCon1. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

Welcome back to live with Brokey by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Pallando and today's guest is a new IFBB Classic Physique Pro. Just one is class at the USA Championships. The man I'm talking about is Doran Trotter. Welcome. Thanks Dave, like the thanks to be here and appreciate you guys helping me on the show. Yeah, you know, you're at work, obviously, Liberty Mutual. Tell us before we get to the body, but what do you do at Liberty Mutual? Is Salah in church? No, I'm actually an auditor. So I pretty much audit files for our claims of gestures and just make sure we're not overpaying or underpaying our customers and make sure we're pretty much standing in line with our estimates. You're the guy we dread coming out when we get damaged to the house and then you've got to come out and assess what it is, right? Well, that's what I actually, that's the gesture. I pretty much audit our gestures. Oh, so you're your, you're, you're, you're, you're my student. Yeah, I'm making sure our gestures are doing the right thing. How long have you been doing the job? Um, I'm being with Liberty for about seven years now and I've been the auditor for two. How do you learn how to do that? What, like, what, what, what are you based at Silver Utilver School for that, obviously? Did they just teach you on the job there? No, we actually, we actually have like a mock house like, um, um, and we're just like damage everywhere. And they take us throughout the house and we assess the images and kind of just write estimates and we meet with contractors and they teach us a lot, uh, as far as like how, what, you know, what type of damage is there and how to write for an estimate for it. So it's kind of things that you learn over time and just learn them to job as well. No, what I always, one, this has nothing to do with bodybuilding of course, but I, I have to ask questions when I actually find experts in areas that I don't know nothing about. When there's like a huge crazy hurricane, like, when I was in New York, we got hit with Hurricane Sandy, like, every, not, not one house, but every house in the entire, you know, NASA county was was destroyed, basically, or, or damaged. How do we insurance companies recover from like, you know, it's crazy stuff like that? Insurance companies got deep pockets, man. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we, we actually work those type of, those storms in our budget. Oh, really? Of course. You know, we don't, you know, let me hurricanes, I mean, we get over pretty quick. Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah. All right. Let's talk about your bodybuilding. You started back and I believe it was 2014 with competing. You obviously were trapped. We talked about earlier. You were trapped and feel the athlete, the sprinter. How did you go from sprinting to bodybuilding? Well, um, ever since I was younger, I always say about, you know, 14 years old, my dad, he pretty much pushed me to play sports, football, track, basketball. And I wasn't always the tallest guy on the team. So he always has told me that I need to be the strongest and the fastest on any team in sport. So I've always been lifting weights and then from track, um, track, this kind of just took over. That was my passion. I actually got a scholarship and track, um, and um, went on a four ride there. And from there, my senior year, or actually started my junior year, put my hamstring, both of them actually, then my senior, I put my hamstring again. And so from there, it's kind of decided to just leave track aside. My old goal was to go try to go pro that. And then I just kind of just transitioned from track to sport. I mean, to weights because, I mean, it was kind of built in my blood since I was 14. So when they had just kind of started just working out. You know, it's funny because when people always say, no, I'm shawanally old track athlete says, I pulled my hamstring. When you say you pulled your hamstring, you tore the hamstring muscle. And that's really, so it's not like something you can get over in a week. You know, people think that, oh, you pulled your hamstring, you'll be better for next week. No big deal. Doesn't work like that, right? Oh, not at all, man. I was out. Each time I pulled my hamstring, I was at least out about six weeks. Wow. And having to do rehab and then once you came back, I mean, it was still that, that lingering pain was always there. So I was always having to wrap my leg up and, you know, I think you obviously handed my performance. So sure. Sure. But why do you think you got track athletes have such a propensity to pulling hamstring because of the explosiveness of the sprinting itself? I think it's a combination of a lot of things that and also just overtraining as well. I feel like, you know, just the constant running and sprinting and, you know, push out of the blocks, you know, that explosive movement tends to, you know, that's where the hamstrings a lot to do on that. So I think it has a lot to do with dehydration, too. I think a lot of track athletes are walking around the hydrated, which makes the muscles much more likely to tear also. Yeah, I was saying it as well. I think even bodybuilders, I think a lot of bodybuilders are dehydrated too and they train at the gym. I just don't think they get enough electrolytes. I think a lot of bodybuilders are afraid to sodium and they just don't consume enough. And when you don't have enough sodium, it's hard to hold on to fluids in your body. Yeah, absolutely. Especially when it's hot out, you know, when you guys go, track athletes in the warm weather, you're always drinking the gatorades and something that's to try to keep the electrolytes as well as the fluid in your body. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I'm with the school of the week down the tech. So it was always hot in the humidity, it was terrible there. But I mean, we try everything that we could decide to try to stay behind the hydrated blood. It always worked that way. Yeah. And you competed in 14, 15, you took, I think you said you took 15 off because you got married and you had to get some kids. Let's talk about that in a minute. 16, 17, you competed. This year, you won the NPC city limits overall title. And then you decided, hey, I'm going to do the USM ready for this. Did you know going into the season that this was going to be the year you were going to try with your pro-park? It's not at all, man. I mean, to go on this competing and bodybuilding, I mean, it was kind of like a hobby at first. And then, you know, this kind of just transitions, something I started to take serious, I would say this year. The plan was just to go to the city limits, you know, place top five or whatever, and you know, I end up winning overall. And right after the show, my coach would say, well, you want to pick a stab at USA, and I'm like, sure, why not? So, you know, it took like a week or two off and then we start to prep for that and, you know, turn pro? Yeah, and that's not a light decision to take, because when you know, it's not cheap to do these big shows. I was talking about the other day. It's 325 bucks, you know, for the application fee, you got to get a hotel, you got to get an airplane, flight, you got to, you know, pay for rides and rent the cars and food. So, it's a big investment financially to go to and you being a financial guy, you should know, it's a big investment financially. You had to believe that you were, you had a good shot. But did you ever imagine in your wildest dreams that you would walk away with an IFBB pro card? No, actually, I would say, towards the end of my prep, you know, my coach, I mean, can be my coach use, I mean, you know, we can actually win this thing, but I'm thinking, you're saying that because you're my coach. But I'm sorry. But after, you know, I started getting a lot of feedback from other people and, you know, my confidence kind of build a little bit more and, you know, you know, I really, this last prep, I really took it seriously. I mean, the final fact, final fact, the cardio sessions and, you know, the gym and the eating and I really took it seriously. So once I got to the show, saw, you know, you kind of peaking, look at the other competitors and, you know, I started my confidence even more because I felt like I had it. So I was really good to build myself at doing a show. Yeah, that's a great, it's always feels great when you go there and you feel like, hey, you know, what I belong here, I got a good shot at winning this and then you actually do. Now, here's a good question. I always ask everyone who I talked to you know, before the show, when I'm in the pre-interview, I say, hey, you know, is there any obstacles that you've overcome or a lot of, you know, hardships that actually get to where you are? You actually set me right back to reality and you were 100% right. You're like, man, it's hard having kids at a full-time job. You got twins, you know, I have one kid at a time, I have two kids, but I had one at a time. You do it the same time. That's a tough, anyone who doesn't have kids, that's a real tough thing to do. Plus have a full-time job, plus train for a show. How do you do that? How do you make the time and manage your schedule so that you can get all this done? I got a good support team. My wife, I mean, I have to say this, but she pretty much allowed me to do a show. I mean, without her. Without her, you know, taking the extra time to prep my meals, you know, she's having the wash of kids while I'm at the gym. You know, weren't going to work early, getting off early, sometimes, just to kind of, you know, pick up the kids and while picking them up, eating my meals, at the gas station or something. So it was, it was hectic, I would say, but, you know, it paid off. Plus, when people don't realize them, and I didn't know they see them, that's probably why I didn't have kids for so long. You don't really sleep very much. My days of eight, nine hours, you know, nights of rest have been terminated permanently. I'm lucky that I get four hours of night. I sleep. I'm sure you're experiencing something similar. Yeah, especially, well, now my kids, they're actually, they turn two on the 29. So we got them to the point where they, they've pretty much sleep to the night. Oh, they're lucky. Yeah, so my son still went up to two and a half, you know. Yeah. So yeah, we got them there, but that's probably like, Naped to in the day. That's, that's, I can't do that at all. So that'll speak to them. Throne, when's going to be the pro-day view next year? So, um, to be honest, I mean, we, we've thrown some dates out there, but nothing's really stuck. So, we looked at the Omaha, we looked at the Tampa Pro. So, it's probably going to be out of those two depending on how I feel and what I look like. I don't know. Well, congratulations on the pro-card, congratulations on your two children. The great job and that sounds like everything's in order and we'll look forward to seeing you on that protest next year. Yeah, I'm excited to go and we're going to bring you that time. We're going to bring it to the show. Anyone you want to thank? Before we go? Yeah, um, you know, I want to thank my coach, Steven Mass. This guy has really helped me and he believed to be what I didn't. So, I feel like he's the secret soft to the whole formula. Right? Uh, then my closing coach, Miss Sheila Brown, uh, she goes about flexi Brown. She's the best. She's the best. She's the best. She, she helped me out with my posing. So, uh, those two, that's my dream team. All right, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with Broughty by SpeciesDutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

Old School body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. My name is Talimini and I am the CEO and founder of Ulysses. The protein, bakery with low sugar, ketogenic and high protein in each and every item. I specialize in making brownies, cookies and cupcakes. As of 2021, we will have the variety of traditional, gluten-free and protein to choose from a every product. Come check us out at www.Ulyssesbaitr.com. And then check us out on our donation by the word, all proceedings will go to the wheelchair body building community with your order. Thank you for checking us out. Take care. Welcome back to Guru Talk on Dave Palombeau and we are joined today by Populous the Man He's Back. Anthony D. Pascuali. Welcome back to the show. Thank you so much, man. Always good to talk to you. Yeah, now we had a really good, we received a really good reception to the last Guru Talk we did, which we talked about, alternative cancer therapies, immune system enhancement, people really liked it. You and I always would go back and forth about detoxification. I know you're big into that, that's something I'm really big into. I believe that unless you can detoxify your body properly, your body's first priority is not going to be to build and repair muscle and to burn fat. And obviously if you want to be healthy and have good blood work come back with liver function that's good and kidney function that's good, you have to do your detoxification. And that's just once a year but on a daily basis. In that light, I wanted to go to you and I wanted to get your insights on detoxification. I can give you mine and maybe we can somehow make them combine somehow. Yeah, it's such a massive topic, you know. And it's sort of like, you know, if you think of a vacuum cleaner, the old ones with the bags and it like, if the bags three quarters full, it's still going to work. Sure. That will. And so it's really, you know, the benefits of detox are pretty immediate. And, you know, my introduction to it and you and I, I think we're both kind of hard for guys, like, you don't like, push you around. No. So I was like 23, 24 and I got to hold this book by Bernard Jensen and it showed pictures of like, bird rubber tires coming out of people's asses. I was like, oh my god, I don't know if anything's like that in me, but if it is, I want it out. And I mean, I like within like a month or something, I did an eight day fast. So in our judge in St. do seven days, drink silly and all day have some play. Right. Have a couple of vitamins. And, you know, the first, when someone starts to detox, they're going to lose a lot of weight. So I think a lot of the marketing of detox is like, you're going to weigh lots of tremendous. Trim into his off your waist and blah, blah, blah, I lost 18 pounds in eight days. Wow. I mean, kind of supposedly metric, but everybody's pounds up here. And this guy came up to me and worked because I was working at the time, I mean, I worked six out of those eight days. He's like, dude, you know, between you and me and people are saying you got AIDS or I said, no, I just stopped eating. And by the way, I was working in a kitchen. Oh, my god. I was eating half a beat and half a glass of apple juice. Now, the bottom line on the seventh day, I gave birth to like an exploded bicycle I was like, holy shit, these pictures are true, right? Yeah. So that's extreme like eight days, colonics being done twice a day, which is like a water tube up your pipe. Yeah. Now, there's, you know, it's, we don't want everyone to jump off the deep end if they feel like, well, I don't know if I can swim or not. So a nice maintenance that I like to do is, is I do a modified fast one day week. And it really, you know, cleansing, you can talk about cleansing the colon, trying to talk about cleansing the liver, cleansing the kidneys, cleansing, cleansing the blood. But cleansing also happens on a cellular level and there's lots of evidence for that. And it kind of happens when you give the body another priority. So when your body doesn't have to digest food, which takes so much energy to digest and absorb and assimilate and process. So if we don't have to do that, then the body's like, oh, now I'm going to not opportunity to clean house a little bit, right? Correct. And I find it's made of tremendous difference. You need to spend, I was 24 and I'm 52, so that's like 27 years. I guess, 26, 27 years. That's amazing. It's such a young age. A lot of people don't really get into it till they're older when they have problems. And you kind of start doing it when you're actually younger, which is going to prevent you. It's never too late. You make a great point. You know, a lot of people wait till, you know, until they hit the wall. But this been a wonderful, upkeep for me. And I kind of feel it in my body. Like every wake up yourself and you're just like not interested in food. You're like, oh, man, I don't know if I feel like eating anything. So that's your body kind of, I think your body's telling you, like, hey, can you fast? There you go. Right. I read a book. I read a book called Clean. I don't know if you have read the book. And this, without going into the whole, the book, the book basically says, look, you know, fasting is good, but it's not necessary to do everything in a week. If you spread it over three weeks and just fast for, say, 12 or 14 hours a day, and each smaller meals, obviously, meals that are not high in toxins and stuff like that easily digestible meals, lower protein, you're going to give your digestive system the same rest. It's just going to take longer. In other words, so for body builders, I recommend I give out a free three week detox that I think works more efficiently because like you said, you lost 18 pounds because you have a fast metabolism, you train, you know, your busy guy. It's probably too extreme for athletes to do that, I think. And I think it's better if you can do it over a longer period of time, but still get the same results out of it. And that's what I find that people, I cut out caffeine, I cut people's dairy out, I cut alcohol, I have to be, you know, gluten free, just, you know, really clean, easily digestible sources of protein, some carbs, obviously, the clean carbs, no sugars, and then of course, a little bit of fats, you know, but, you know, like, build like olive oil or macadamina oil tech stuff. And people get really good results the first week, they get, you know, you get to, like, fog because as your body is releasing toxins and then after that, you clear up and your eyes get really bright white and, you know, it just gives your body, like you said, an ability to clean house and I give this people this analogy. I'm always working, I never have time to catch up on all the little housekeeping things that I need to do. I said, if I only had a vacation, if I only had a week right, and if nothing else, I would be caught up. And that's really what you're giving your body, you're giving your body a vacation from digesting food and doing, going to work, so to speak, so that they can clean the interior of the body. And that's, that's important, we know that. And it's kind of subjective. I mean, everyone has their favorites, but I did subsequently, I did a 10 day, 12 day, 14 day, fast and the most ever loss was five pounds. So the more toxic somebody is, the more weight they're going to lose, I never detox before, it was 24. So I lost so much, but like seriously, when if I detoxed one day, and I like to do a more hard course style, what you're talking about is definitely effective. And you know, another golden thing about it is that is the person going to do it. If the person has turned off by something extreme, give them something more moderate, they're still going to get benefit from it. But I really think that one day, and on a cellular level, there's research by this term related group of researchers, when WEDT, and they found on a cellular level that the cells were more permeable. The human body cells were more permeable. So proteins could get into the cell more easily. And toxins could lead the cell more easily. So on a micro level, they found that fasting was beneficial for the body now. Hard core fast is like a dry fast, which I would never do so. No water, no fluid, no nothing. That's crazy. I always do a lot of water and a little bit of salt, because sodium is the most important to your actual life. And I'll have some fruits and veggies, but there's raw fruits and veggies, if you chew them, they digest themselves. They're full of enzymes already. So that would be like the most extreme detox. It's going to be like watermelons fast. I've seen people do. That would be amazing. Yeah, watermelon trius is super cleansing for the urinary tract, the kidneys, and parsley. So as celery also is well. So you can kind of take it like apples, kind of helps clean your valve ladders, so you can kind of look up with different raw foods. But you can't go wrong with just a raw day, so you eat like a rabbit. Really interesting research, there's a muscle guy. And I can say muscle like because I always aspire to be a muscle has been a muscle head. So this muscle headed the gym, and he's like, no man, I'm not going to fast because you know I'm going to lose muscle about not cool with that. And I sent him a study where they had people fasting every other day on just water for a month. They did not lose muscle. Because you might lose muscle on that water day around that fasting day. But you're going to gain it back every bit of it the next day, because your growth on goes through the roof and you're starving. Or even if you don't need a few apples, you're going to almost still be able to do it. So it's this kind of balance where I like to eat heavy because you've got a lot of muscle to maintain. I eat really heavy and that's kind of the last things that I want. So it's good to eat light. And like you said, even if you cycle back for a week or two, still eat your protein and carbs, just cycle it back and don't have dairy, which is notoriously congesting, don't have bleeds. All right. Okay. Well, I just wrote the book on Plensing the Coling Paper and your colonel. We have to work together. Right. So that's your time makes a lot of sense. You know, cycle back on the heavy stuff. And one of the most important things a lot of people don't realize is when you're cleansing and detoxifying, you need a really good, silly and base fiber. Because that binds up all those toxins that your body's dumping into the colon and into the intestinal tract because if you don't bind them up and pull them out of the body, you can re-absorb them into the bloodstream. And that was one of the premises of this book, a clean, you must take a fiber supplement. That's why I get people on my fiber-lice twice a day, product. It works amazing. It tastes good and you know what? It does the job. And I tell people, beware, you're going to have weird, weird bowel movements that, especially the first week. And people, I don't think they're ever ready for it until they actually do it and then they're like, oh my God. I cannot believe what came out of me. What did I just give birth to? Yeah. It just, it looks weird. It's like stuff they'd never seen before, you know? You make such a hugely important point. You gotta be pooping when you're fasting. You gotta be. Because, you know, the liver and the gallbladder are going to collect toxins and they're going to shoot them into the small intestine. And then the intestines job is to absorb. So if you have fiber there, the fiber is going to help to bind these toxins, whether they be heavy metals, pesticides and their metabolites, classed asvisors and their metabolites. So fiber administratively does help to, and then to bind them and then pass them out of the body. Clay is also good for that. It's like something that can throw in there. Sure. They call them dirty-tours, right? People who take part in charcoal is also good. People who use the way that night Clay is not, they call them dirty-tours, right? Oh, dirty-tours. Yeah, yeah. You got to learn from the kids in the playground, right? You got to learn from them. So on that, we're not a Jensen program. I was eating a lot of clay and I've done it ever since. Usually, if I'm having a fasting day, I'll consume some clay. I play as an entire... Yeah, yeah, sorry about that. Oh, no. I think we have a little connection problem. Oh, really? I read the song, but I think I read it in life extension magazine about clay. And I bought this big thing of like... It was dirt, basically. And you mix it into water and drink it down. And it was literally... It was like I was taking dirt from outside and mixing it and drinking that. I don't know how I went through like three weeks on this stuff. And I don't know if it did anything, but I definitely had very interesting bowel movements on Tony that much. So, that clay is so detoxing because it pulls it dry. So it actually sucks toxins out of your body. Let me ask you a question, because you know what? I did a at home heavy metal test because I was convinced that I was marked high mercury because I used to eat a ton of sushi back in the day. And you hear mercury, tuna, all this stuff. And so I test my heavy metals. I send it off in the mail and it comes back high for lead. So I'm like, now I'm like freaking out. I'm like, I can't hide. I'm like, I left levels from. I'm thinking, you know, maybe it was on I lived in New York and I we worked in this industrial center and maybe it was... I know that it was dust in the air and I'm starting to think it crazy about it. So I go and get a blood test locally and my lead comes back normal. Okay. Because I think when some of those you send these home tests in, they don't work quite that well and the blood the grades and contaminants can get in there and then not that. So, you're in test or blood test? It's a blood test. I had to like bleed my thing around to one of these little white cars and stuff like that. Did you do a challenge? Because there's something I think is called DMSA. So that sucks metals out of your tissues and then you tend to test. Hi. I didn't do that. All I know is I poke my finger and I had to put blood splashes on this paper and then you send it off. Now, when I went to the quest I knew I was like, they took blood from my arm and they tested it. So it came back and said, you're lead free just like gasoline. That's right. I'm lead free. I'm lead. Now, for people who do have high mercury or high lead or something, what are you running? Glad you brought this up because I like to proactive the take things that suck heavy metals out of the body. So, I'll gin a gas. Elgina gas it is really good. High content of that in many cv. So, I a lot of cv doesn't matter. Clarella is like a heavy hitter for getting rid of heavy metal. Why didn't know that really? Clarella, huh? Much more so than spirulina. It has that unique property of helping full heavy metals out of the body. How much have to take? I have no idea how much you have to take. I do have about five, 10 grams a day when I think about it. But a really interesting study I saw to, um, lack-taining women and measure the level of pesticides in their breast milk. Right. And once they were put on Clarella had less pesticide residues. Quite a bit less residues of pesticides after being put on Clarella. Wow. What do you think about it? What do you think about EDTA under the tongue, subling wooing? I think EDTA is cool. It's not my super favorite thing in the world because EDTA has got a lot of evidence that it pulls heavy metals out. But it doesn't give you any other goodness, right? Where Clarella gives you a lot of full team around event, he oxenents, um, so there's goodness in it. And then in terms of like, you know, EDTA is a late addition to human intake, where clay, humans are bleeding, Clay, if you're millennia, like, all around the world. They're like, oh, my tummy doesn't feel right. I need some clay. But native people didn't around the world. Okay. And I saw one study with rats where they raised two generations of rats on a diet of 25% clay, 75% you know, rats out. And these two generations of rats were fine. There was no problem in their birth weight and their longevity and anything. Right? So, I mean, that's a heck of a lot of clay. Yeah. So I'd say so. It's more proven. So EDTA is cool. If somebody really had this issue heavy heavy metal, but you know, on a full and too fast, because then you can create a toxic environment, because they're kind of like sequestered in the body. So if you suck them out too quickly, then you can get too much in the bloodstream, and you can kind of like retoxify yourself. So I would go slow, where I think things like clay, chloralicy, we, they're long term. And I like your original thought about the detoxing more longer term, more gentle. Yeah. I think for sure for heavy metals that's safer. Yeah. And doing it. But if somebody's got like, you know, life threatening, um, part of me, heavy metal toxicity, it's even accepted in medicine, just give them an ETA drip. It's like acceptable in modern medicines. That would they do? Is that what they do? The pull it out quickly. That is, is the modern medicine, ETA is not okay for cleansing your arteries, but that seems to be also what ETA can do is suck plaque on the arteries. Right. Well, it could definitely pull calcium out. It would pull calcium, I imagine out of the arteries, right? Yeah. Yeah. It might be part of the mechanism, but yeah, people just get cleaned up from well, but when there's no less of this to that, I wonder why we don't see more to ETA, um, Qation therapy out there, you know, I haven't seen this sublingual stuff, but I have seen subsidiary stuff, but I guess either way, I have some sublingual stuff that someone had recommended to me to use and I'll use it. I don't use it continuously. I'll use it like for a couple days in a row, maybe once a month, like you said, kind of as a gradual, just in case type of thing, because they're all getting some kind of heavy metals from somewhere, like I was reading a lot of under-on biodorants have thawly on them in there and speaking of detox, you know, let's try not to add toxins to our life, as as an under-on biodorant, I just take zinc powder from the pharmacy, like pure zinc oxide out it. I even made a YouTube video about it. It works amazing. Oh, really? The natural shit the odourant, it never works for me, man. But the zinc stuff works, and then if you absorb something, who cares? It's good for you, right? Right. I'm using some of the natural, I forget the name of what it's called now. I used to be called primal pit paste, that's just a decal. They sell it on Amazon. It's pretty expensive, but you know what it works. I don't smell from it. If it's that cold, it would've been good. Whatever, so. That's cool. So you don't have the guisha armpits that I get. No, but if if I stuck, I believe I'd go back to the real stuff, but you know what, I don't really do anything that makes me sweat that much anymore. It's not like I could just jam like squatting 600 pounds anymore, so that would only that. You know what? I thought I was down that when I went off the antibiotics, I stopped my sweat, doesn't smell as bad, you know. As when I was 300 pounds, your body's, your body's cleaner, right? And then if you do decal, that's a nice side effect of decal. You'll smell sweeter, like your be-oh, will be sweeter. Like it's just, but you're like, you're a greasy Italian. I bet if you eat a garlic meal, you probably smell for three days of garlic, right? Oh my god. I love garlic so much. And I miss it so much I never eat it because I'm a trainer too, man. I can't speak like a garlic and be standing beside you. If I eat something that might even have a trace of garlic, my wife's like, oh, what did you eat? I mean, it could be like a minuscule because it's not my pores. It's like unbelievable. But that's a good sign, you know, your panels are open. That's a good sign. Yeah, yeah, Italian's detoxion to skin. No doubt about it. All right, well, I want to ask you about colonics because you know, I did a colonic once. And I never did it again after that. And I was very uncomfortable for me. Yeah, some stuff came out and everything like that. But I found that I felt like it was wiping out my good probiotic bacteria that are growing in my colon and I just didn't conceptually think it was a good way to detox. I was just laughing because I was saying today's a fire hose or something. I went to the open one where you know, it did not really, where you kind of let it out yourself. It's like a little thing. All right, that shoots up there. You fill up and then you kind of just do it yourself. Because I didn't want anyone in the room with me sucking stuff out of my body. It's just like, I couldn't do it, you know. I don't know after reading Jensen's book, Bernard Jensen, I was like, you know, these exploded bicycle tires. I got to try this out. So I bought my old plan for. Oh, really? And I still do them to this day, maybe once a season, but I did it once a week for a whole year. I don't know. I found that my gut always worked really well whether I was doing it or not doing them. And so, you know, your appendix is kind of like a little depol for probiotics. So even if you use a lot of them from the Holy Ghost. I don't have an appendix that was taken out of 17. So, okay. And you got to take the probiotics yourself. Yeah, I got to take my own. So, but you know, I think that if you do, I tell people this all the time. You know, I take my five or supplement religiously two times a day, every single day. I try to fast 10 to 12 hours every day. I eat my meals within a window. And I feel like not a regular basis. I'm pretty detoxed all the time already. So, I don't have to do anything extreme anymore. I think it's the people who haven't detoxed ever or, you know, have a lot of big gut or feel like they're just backed up and they're health doesn't feel that good. They have low energy. Those people need a major detox probably. It's a good passive detox as well. And it depends on the situation. I have one client and he's like, dude, he trained anyway because he's such a trooper. He's like, I've had this headache for like three days, man. Right. I'm trying getting a colonic. So he went to a colonic place. He said his headache was like just vanished. He just talked his life out of a bone. So it sounds like a gross topic, but it really is very important. And I owe, and I said, this is going to be an ailment. I'm going to finish up the interview by rehashing this. Your body will not prioritize building muscle repairing muscle tissue, burning body fat at optimal levels if you are toxic. It's not a priority to your body. So if you want to be the best body building, building muscle and then getting ready for competitions by burning the most fat, the most efficiently detox your body, that's the best advice I can give anyone. And I assume that you probably can second that. I totally see that man. And maybe if we can do another talk at some point, we talk about more specific detoxing. Like detoxing the skin, the liver, the kidney. And what the different effects of that would be. But the more tough, the more you're talking about, you know, once the body starts cleaning health a little bit, it's going to help all of those areas anyway. And if you haven't specifically targeted it. Yeah, I think a lot of people have bad acne. I'd love to target how we can clean cleanse the skin and get all those toxins out to the skin. Because really acne is, you know, it's bacteria in the pores, basically, that are feeding off of the toxins that are coming out of your body. Right? I mean, that's what seed them is, right? And people don't realize that. You know, when I went to the dermatologist as a kid, he told me you could eat whatever you want. Chocolate, sugar, that's all dairy. It's all bullshit. It doesn't make you break out anymore. But I knew by experimentation that if I was eating a lot of sugar or I was having dairy, I was breaking out worse. I just knew it. So he could tell me you only want that he just wanted to put me on those creams that did nothing or antibiotics that did nothing. And that's how they trained them, right? That's how the doctors are trained. Yeah. It's the intervention that works, not the lifestyle. Like that's how they trained them. They don't want preventative medicine. They only want to treat symptoms. That's unfortunately the way it is. In medicine, and that's one of the reasons I didn't go into medicine and I pulled out at the last minute. But thank you, Anthony, for joining us again today. We're going to do part two on detoxification, possibly next week of the week after. And give us some plugs. How could people get in touch with you? Anthony, eeposwally.com. And everything's there. My email, my cell number, everything's there. Excellent. Thank you for joining us. Have a great day. I'll see you back for part two. All right. Enjoy sunny Florida. Are you lucky guy? Absolutely. Guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Gooroo Talk. I'm Dave Palumba with Anthony Deeposwally. We'll see you next time.

F Para trebeci eg randomly, Tu trebein Bour painoss

프리да을 ... And as vigorous cast, And by adjutant, She comeseh vildar- As тorn引ame, Salousella, longelekend props Kwonetana, meanwhileureaджiron, Xia

Delché get excusedeeeeeeá Elත Alka bayCoulder-lasaintare achieving the 오� 언니 음� нам cathedral. Tanthal-Ganingumi Sergianumusah thima解 kar apouratumna닝







I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, stows from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle rant. I know you don't like some of you love when I pitch complaints. Some of you don't, but I gotta just tell you this because it's irking me. It's on my chest and it's really bothering me. I have a high-speed fiber connection in my office here, in my studio. For both RX muscle and Species Nutrition, I spent a lot of money on a business line to my house because at the time there was no high-speed internet available here. In the neighborhood. So I got sent to E-Link, which is the local cable company here, to run a business line to my warehouse. I have a separate building on my property and they provide me with service. It's high-speed service. Not as high-speed as I would like, but it's a business line. I have a dedicated line just to me if anything breaks. They come and fix it supposedly. That doesn't always work as a player. I pay way too much money for it because they had a run-align and no one else had it here. I ride it off the business, whatever. I'm always fighting with them over the price because it's been over three years and it's supposed to adjust the price. That has nothing to do with anything though. So I got this line in here. I also hired a separate firm called ProTech. They're local here in Cape Coral. You can go look them up. ProTech computer guys, okay, IT guys, came over here and it's funny because my wife knew the owner of the company's guy Mike. They came over here and they installed a server for me. They've got my server working for my business so we can do quick books and all that other cool stuff. They ran a line from my business building to my house, which is about 250 feet away. We had a dig a trench. We had to put a conduit in there, like a pipe. They ran this high-speed fiber line. They had to run an actual fiber line from my building to my house because it's such a long run that if you just use an Ethernet cord, it'll lose signal. You would see one by time the thing gets to the house, it's too far away and you won't have any speed left. So I did everything the right way. I spent a lot of money on this thing. This company came out, they ran everything, they rigged up everything, all the Wi-Fi signals in my house. They stopped working the other day. So I called them up and I said, I can't get these people on the phone. I call I leave 600 messages. I call essentially a link. I have a dedicated guy, to my case. I have a business guy, a business liaison over there. This guy won't call me back. I get him on the phone. I have to trick him. I have to call him from different numbers. This guy apologized to me. He never calls me back. This guy. Because he doesn't want to reduce my rate. That's another thing. It's another whole thing. I can't get... So I call ProTech. They won't come back and fix anything. They say, sorry, we're going to take more customers. I'm like, I'm an existing customer. I'll pay for it. Whatever you want to charge me. Because I'm desperate at this point. I need internet in my house. Because my kids can't watch that. They're iPads. God's been, my wife does a lot of her work at night while the kids are sleeping. She can't come over to the office. We can't function. So it's not even a money thing. I'll pay anything to get this fiber line fixed. But I've had electricians here. They don't know anything about electricians. They don't know anything about fiber. At least the ones around here don't. They're like, wow, I've been doing this for 45 years. But we don't know fiber. I'm like, can you test the line? At least tell me if there's a signal coming into my house? Oh, we don't have that kind of. But we could test volts. But we can't test fiber. I'm like, who can? They're like, century. Like, I can't get them to come over here. They're like, well, who put this in? I said, I can't get them to come over here either. It's funny because these ProTech guys were really dependable, nice guys. They did a good job. And now they're customer service sucks. I would not recommend them to fit to anyone. Anyone who's thinking about losing the cable area is thinking of trying to use ProTech, stay away from them. Bad news, bad business. They don't get to your calls. They don't call you back. They obviously don't care. They obviously have big time customers. And you know what will happen. They'll lose those. And then they'll be begging for people to come. So I would not give them my business now. Even if they came in and said, hey, we'll come fix the line. I don't want them here in my house. Because I don't want people. I've never seen anything like it. I'll tell you one thing. I love Florida. But there's nothing like New York. People love to work there. They want to make money. You need something done. You call them up. People come and they fix it. Because you know why they want to make money? They go get us here in Florida. You should see what I went through to try to get people to cut my lawn. I have a great guy pulling out of his lawn. I have nothing. I have nothing to say. But it took me a long time to find him. I had guys quit not me and saying they wouldn't come back. I can't get anyone to put a fence up. I think I finally found a fence person. I got five people come out here and look at fences and then they never came back. I can't get in touch with them. I don't know why anyone wants to work. I still don't have anything in my house. I think I finally threw what the best way to find people to do work is to put it online. My wife put a post online and the neighborhood here. Someone told us that there's a company that actually supplies the fiber lines for a century length. Essentially, buy his fiber from them. I call them up and I think they're sending someone over. The next couple of days to take a look at it and hopefully repair my wife. Find out if that's even the problem. I've never in my life and I'm 52 years old. I've owned my own house since 1997. In all my years, I've never found such a difficult time finding people to come fix things and do things to make money. It's not like I'm asking anyone to do it for free. I'm willing to pay for it. I'm way even dollars that no one's coming. It's amazing. I'm easy to do work for. Just come to the work I'll pay it. I don't make people wait for their money. It's just it's weird, weird phenomenon. I don't know, maybe it's a society in general. I think it's just down here in Florida. I really do. I think people don't care about working. They just like, uh, so warm down here. I just wanted to sit outside and just sign up and write my bike. I don't know. I don't know. I'm very disappointed in ProTech, however, and I would boycott their business. Okay. If anyone out there is listening, it's in the area. Do not call them. Bad business. Okay. That's just not cool. You do a job or someone you don't come back and service it. I've never heard of anything in my life. In my life, I've never anything. All right. So I'm bitchy complaining here to take home messages guys if you're going to start your own business. It's about servicing people. You give good service to people. Okay. They will hire you and tell all their friends about you. I'm the best recommender of all time. That's Dr. Blout, my plastic surgeon. He did my gynecromantic surgery in 1991. I've sent thousands of people to this guy. Him and I are like father and son now. I mean, that's how close to where I'm because of the loyalty there. And it's because, you know, if you do good work, I'll be the first guy to advocate everyone. I don't know why anyone would want to have the business and not have good referrals. If I get someone in shape, they refer to people to me. Of their friends, for me to get them in shape. That's how it works. Do good service for people. Return their phone calls. Even if you can't do work for them, be polite. Okay. Like Aaron T, you will be successful in this world because there's a lot of lazy people out there. And there's a lot of people who have very poor customer service. They can't talk to other people that have poor communicators. That's the, if you're in that category, don't go into business because you will fail. But if you're in the other side of the coin where you're actually a good at servicing people, you're nice and kind to people whether they're nasty or in their bad mood or not. Remember the customer's always right. You will do very well. You will make a lot of money and you will get tons and tons of return business. I promise you that. I'm Dave Poulombo with an RX muscle rant.

Day of Falombo with another RX muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1. Today's topic, Dioretics. It's that time of year guys, everyone's getting up on stage. They're doing shows and that means there's a lot of dioretic usage, what are dioretics, or drugs that force the body somehow to lose water. And that's really what we want to do with the very, very end of contest dive. We want to dry out. We want to make those muscles look so hard and vibrate in the best way to do that. It's the pull water out from under the skin. So there's always a layer of what we call subcutaneous water that sits between the skin and the muscles. And it's always there. You can never get rid of all of it. But we try to get rid of as much as possible so that the skin is almost like shrink wrapped to the muscles. So you can see all the definition. The problem is if you start pulling too much water out of the body, there's no water left under the skin. So you start pulling water out from inside the muscle. And what that does is that deflates the muscle and the muscle goes flat. And you hear that people say, oh, the guy was flat on stage. Or his muscles were unpopping or his skin was loose. And that's usually because the muscles are dehydrated. So there's a good right way and there's a wrong way to dehydrate yourself and use dioretics. And there's certain dioretics that you should use and shouldn't use. Now to a certain degree, all dioretics will work. But the question is, why would you want to use certain dioretics over certain other ones? And once again, I'm a scientist at heart. So what I like to do is break down the science of how things work. And then make an informed decision on what the best route to take is to accomplish the gold that you want. And in this case, it's to get that very dry looking skin, but keep the muscles full. So think about it right off the bat. If you want to keep the muscles fuller. The less dioretic you take and for the, I guess you could say, the shorter duration, the better off you are because ultimately the first word comes from onto the skin. Then the long year on dioretics or the more that you're using. Okay, now now it starts pulling from the muscles. So right off the bat, I only used dioretics the last day before the show. And then the day of the show is necessary. Never use it anytime before that because if you, the longer you're using, remember, the flat of the muscles are going to go. That's just the way it is. And the longer you use them, the more the body kind of catches on to what you're doing. And starts resisting what you do. I can't tell you how many guys I've seen who start dioretics sometimes like a week half five days after the show. By three or four days out they look at, they can, they can, they can win the Mr. Olympic contest. And then by the day, the time show time comes around that their flat is a pancake and they don't look at anymore. So one day I used dioretics. The question is which dioretics, really, and we're not really going over the last week of the contest, but we're going over dioretics. So what dioretics are the best and why? Well, you know, one of the dioretics, a lot of people bring up, you know, the use and claim that it's a mild dioretic and it's, it's great to use is outdactone. And what outdactone does is it inhibits a hormone in the body known as aldosterone. El nostrons produce from the adrenal glands and it's job is to regulate sodium balance in the body. So the higher the amount of aldosterone in your body, the more sodium and water you retain. Okay, if you restricts, let's say you stop eating salt in your diet, which some people do on their diet, which is ridiculous. The last salt that's in your body, the higher the aldosterone levels will be because as your body depletes sodium, your adrenal glands release, el nostorone to help re-absorb sodium. It's basically telling the body, you know, hey, we need more sodium in here. So if you restrict salt for a long period of time before a show, you're going to have a lot of aldosterone around, which means it's going to be very hard to get rid of water because aldosterone wants to store water. So what a lot of people do is then they'll take aldactone, which inhibits aldosterone from working. Okay, which sounds like a good plan on paper, right? Hey, just block this stupid hormone and then we'll get rid of water. And aldactone happens to be potassium sparing, which means you don't lose potassium when you're taking aldactone, you only lose sodium. So it sounds like a good idea. The problem arises that if you do too much of this stuff, because you always got to look at not just how things work, but what if something goes wrong, how do you solve the problem? Because if you can't solve a problem when things go wrong, you're screwed, right? So aldactone inhibits aldosterone. The problem is that toward the end, the show day comes around, you start cramping, what do you do? Normally, because you know that it's when you cramp on aldactone, it's got to be a sodium imbalance because you're not losing potassium. Most people would just start eating sodium. The problem is without aldactone, as you can't absorb it because you're inhibiting the hormonal dosterone. So that's not a good idea. Also, a lot of people start aldactone, like almost a week out, sometimes 10 days out, which I don't know where that came from. I know Bob Grushkin started that, but you know, it's interesting. aldactone has another use in medicine. They give it to women who are very angogenized, meaning that they have, they've been massized. I'm not talking about women that serve who are on animal oxalorids. Don't know about women who just have angogen problems. Some women produce too many angogens in their body. Whether it's polycysticic, what is it called? Polycystic ovary disease, or it just happens to be that they produce a lot of adrenal angogens, you know, because that's where women produce their hormonal, from they produce them from the adrenal glands. And they give women aldactone. And why do they do that because it acts as an anti-anrogen? And it starts acting like an anti-anrogen after 10 days of use. So if you use it less than that, it's not going to block the angogen use as far as from a body-going standpoint. But that's what it's given for. I don't know if people can use that 10 day in the pamphlet thing about, hey, you've got to take it more than 10 days. And then they figure, well, that means you have to use aldactone up to 10 days. I don't know where that came from. But to be honest, if I had to use the aldactone, it certainly wouldn't be for 10 days. Maybe it would be for one day, you know, once again. But I don't like it once again because it inhibits aldosterone from working. And therefore, something goes wrong at the end. And you start cramping because you're a duplit too much sodium. You can't restore the balance by eating salt because you've stifled your body's ability to absorb it. So I don't like aldactone. Second direct is that it's very popular. It's a few rows to minor laces. It's what we call loop diurettic. It's one of these things that it's like, it's like an atomic bomb. It just flushes everything out of your body really quickly. The problem is that it flushes sodium and potassium out. Now, upon first glance, that doesn't seem as just bad idea. The problem is once again, if you cramp on laces and you want to correct the problem, the question is, are you sodium depleted? Or are you potassium depleted? If you're only sodium depleted and you take potassium, you'll make it worse. And vice versa. So you don't really know what's going. It's too many variables to have to keep a count of when you take laces. Now, if I have a client who can't get anything else but laces, it seems to be a very readily available diuretic because the logic he will take for blood pressure issues. I have a laces, so 20 million laces one time is probably not going to cause any potassium depletion. But once again, don't like it because there's that unknown variability in there. The diuretic I do like is diaside. Diaside is a dual diuretic. It contains hydrochlorothiaside and triumthere. Hydrochlorothiaside act illness like laces, as it forces potassium and sodium out of the body. But triumthere actually causes you to retain potassium. When you combine these two drugs together, the combined effort is that you lose sodium but you don't lose any potassium. It balances it's what we call potassium sparing diuretic. The great thing about diaside is it's very predictable in how it works. You know precisely how much water you're going to lose, especially if you worked with it before. I said, and secondly, you don't lose any potassium. So if you're cramp while you're taking diaside, you just need salt. When you restore the sodium and potassium balance immediately. To me, that's a great diuretic used because of that safety. Now there's different names to diaside in other countries. There's diatide, it's cold, it believe overseas. Modureritic is another one that's very similar. It's a pretty comparable component. You can use any of these brands. Maxide is another brand of diaside as well. You're looking to compete in a show and you're looking for a diuretic. You really want to stick with some diaside-based diuretic. Dual diuretic has the hydrochlorophylliside with the triamterines. That's going to be the most predictable diuretic that you can use. If anything goes wrong, you need to have it corrected. How you put together the last week of fluid restriction and adding the diuretic in and how much to use, that's person-specific. I do a lot of last week's concepts, perhaps, of people. If you're confused about how to carve up and how to deplete water and take the right diuretic to have a time all that and you've never done it before, it might be a hoovey to go to datelumbar.com and sign up for my last week's contest prep for $100. Then just contact me and I can go over all this and walk you through the process. Sometimes better than screwing up a whole contest diatide. That's the reason I did this astate, which is, that's the reason I did this. The rant is because I see too many people making mistakes with diuretics and screwing themselves up at the 16 hard weeks of work. They're doing tons of laysticks and then they're wind up cramping and they went up in the hospital on an IV bag or they do too much out of that tone and flatten themselves out and they can't fix the problem. There is a right way to do things people and just because it worked once doing it the wrong way, it doesn't mean you should keep duplicating it that way because it could go wrong in the second time. This methodology I'm telling you is try and true and repeated and the science behind it and it's very predictable and that's what you want. You want to be able to control the variables of what's going on with your body that last few days before a competition and not have to worry. Hey, am I rolling the dice? Is this going to work out? Because that's not a very comforting thought and that's not conducive to getting the results and predictable results that you want to get every time you get on the stage, especially given how much money and time and dedication you put into this. Alright guys, I hope you enjoyed today's rant. If you did, make sure you subscribe, turn on notifications, hit like and all that other good stuff have a great show weekend. I'm Dave Plumbo with another RX muscle rant.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday, July 10th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As you get older, you start to recognize certain things about yourself. For me, one of those things I've learned is that with most of the stuff I do, less is more. I'm way more productive when I don't spread myself to thin. And if someone asked me to name one thing that I thought was the secret to dexter Jackson's longevity, the whole less is more would be right at the top of my list. You don't get to have a career that spans almost three decades without understanding how your body works, especially when you're 50 years old, because now we're talking about a completely different ball game. But this is what makes Dexter one of the greats. It's not just a town, it's the knowledge that comes along with the town. Less damage means more recovery and more recovery means more wins. So people can say whatever they want, but at the end of the day, they can't argue with his results. If you really sit down and think about it, isn't it crazy that people used to get weird diseases like scurvy? Because they didn't have enough vitamin C in their diet? But if you're a figure competitor in 2020, you almost have the opposite problem, because Sydney Gillins pretty much mega-dose in the entire division for the better part of the last three years. With the Olympia being about 20 or so weeks away, this is usually the time when we see Sid start to kick things into high gear. This is when the intensity of your ratchet's up, and the next thing you know, she's turning on the afterburners trying to lap the field. And if history tells us anything, it's that once she starts to pull away, there's no one else in the division who can close the gap. Back in the day when we played pickup basketball, we would yell, I got next to let people know that we were ready to jump in after the next game. But for Duane Walker, I think placing top three at one of the deepest line up so the season was enough to let everyone embody, but let's know that he's ready for a takeover of the court. For a lot of people, what Duane did in Tampa was that one of the biggest surprises of the entire weekend, especially considering the fact that he was competing in the 2012 division last year. The guy checks all the boxes and what fans are looking for from the next generation of future stars. So now that everyone knows he's coming, it'll be fun to see how he responds to this spotlight. According to the law of supply and demand, when demand is high, so is the cost. As a business, it's your job to recognize and respond to the needs of the market. And over the last 12 months, you can make the argument that no one's responded to the demand of the market better than ESA-Passini. It's not just that she's navigator her way to the top of the division that makes this run so impressive. It's more about how she had to climb over the two multi-time world champions who are still in their prime to do it. Even with the demand for excellence being in an all-time high, ESA still managed to supply the goods, which is not an easy thing to do. She cornered the market in the division right now, and I have a hard time believing that she'd be ready to give up her competitive advantage anytime soon. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

T T L Jesús C Isaiah All right, so I'm all fine, I can't see But all fine, I'm all fine, I'm all fine Baby, let's see, yeah, let's go, I'm all fine So I'm all fine, let's be I'm all fine, I'm all fine All right, yeah, let's go, I'm all fine So keep my heart safe So don't do it, baby I'm all fine, so keep my heart safe So don't do it, baby I'm all fine, I'm all fine So keep your heart safe So don't do it, baby I'm all fine, yeah, let's go, I'm all fine And so don't do it, baby I'm all fine, so keep my heart safe

We are at the Tampa Bay Powerhouse gym and this is a new gym and I'll be going to you regularly and you can see there the stairs, that's the event speech stairs. In here we have the rock wall kind of like the concrete walk wall and Darial gains that she's going to show us and demonstrate the wall climb. Go ahead Darial, don't fall now. If you do I've got a captured here on video. They call her Darial Spider-Woman Gaines. Here she goes. Keep going, you could do it. Darial. All right, you want to try to go to the side? No. Don't fall. Don't hurt yourself. Oh. All right, come on down, you're scared of me now. This is after a monster chest workout people. It's not like she's fresh or anything. Good job. Take a bow. Very nice.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If leg day was yesterday and now you're wondering why toilets are so damn low, you are definitely old school. If you're the only athlete in your gym that knows there's a contest today and it's to see who trains the hardest. You are old school. Go S BBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Day Palombo here with another RX muscle rant. In today's world, things are changing very rapidly. The world as we know it is completely different than it was 10, 15, 20 years ago. And some people get depressed over and some people don't know how to deal with it. I get enraged at things that go on on a daily basis in my life. A lot of people ask me, hey Dave, how do you keep it all together? How do you say pause? How do you succeed in today's world as time evolves and as time goes on? How do you continue to re-invent yourself? I want to give you some examples. On a daily basis, I'm driven crazy. By some of the moronic stuff that goes on in this world, we order a bunk bed. Okay, for my son. I've talked about this before. We went to rooms to go and we found this bunk bed. My son was jumping all over. My kids were loving it. We bought the bunk bed. They said it'll be delivered the next day. I said, well, that's great service. Next day, the thing comes. They bring up 10 boxes and then they bring it out the final box. They open it up to carry this thing up my stairs. The one piece, the big piece, it has the staircase on it. It's scratched and it looked like someone threw it off the top of the truck. Okay, when they take it out of the box. They're going to bet they're bringing up my steps and I'm like, wow, guys, did you guys look at this thing? It's a rack. I thought, oh, who was this dude, dude? I said, what would you do if you bought this bunk bed and this is what came out of the truck? Would you take it? Oh, you should really, you know, they just too lazy. They wanted to just get the job over with. So I call up rooms to go and I'm like, you guys delivered a piece of the bunk bed. Then we gave them pictures. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. All right, we'll get you another one. All right, when? It's going to be two weeks. Now you go and tell a five year old that is bunk bed that was supposed to be delivered when you got back from school is not going to be there now for two weeks because you guys know what the situation is. They go crazy, right? And I would go crazy too as a kid. I've told my son Logan, it's not coming. Two weeks later, the same week, two weeks from the Wednesday was supposed to be delivered, the truck arrives, okay? Guys, I hope you guys, oh, we inspected this in the warehouse. It's great. There's no box on this one piece that they're rediscovered. All the other pieces are still up in my son's room for now two weeks, luckily he didn't destroy them. And they take the plastic off of this thing. And of course it's all damaged again. Unlike guys, this is the second time. How do you, it's not even in the box. You're probably giving me the same piece I got last week and call him up again another two weeks. I said, look, this is ridiculous. I said, no, no, we're going to do inspections and every step in a way, it rooms to go. We're going to do it at the warehouse, the deliver. And a two weeks later, now we're on four weeks after the original purchase, the truck arrives, they take the box off. Look at this, it looks beautiful, right? It's been inspected. The last step, the woodlam, which I didn't even know was woodlam, is peeling off. Call him up. I said, look, my son's got to have this bunk bed. I said, you guys, bring it up, say I said it up, I said, you bring me back, you replace the part, whatever you want to bring back. Fine, that's your right. I'm sorry. Now the guys go to bring this one piece up the steps, they can't get it up my step. The thing must weigh 500 pounds. Or look, I can't weigh 500 pounds. They can't get it up my stairs. They're like, sorry, we can't be enough the steps. I said, so what are I going to sell my son? We just don't bunk bed. Okay, now I'm, I'm future theory. I'm ready to do video and put it up on Instagram and everything like that because of the incompetence level. But you know what, I said to myself, don't look, why are you going to get worked up? No one cares about anything anymore. There's no, no one takes workmanship, you know, appreciation, no one has pride in their work. People just want to get to job, but the fact is today, no one even wants to work anymore. And that is almost like a metaphor of our entire society now that we live in. However, you can't get down and get depressed about that because it has nothing to do with you. There's other people, lazy, just because other people don't handle merchandise properly or do customer service. Well, okay, because what I would have done is I want to say, look, I'm going to knock some money off this. I'm going to have it brought back to you the next day because I want you as my customer to be happy. Just like if someone complains about a tub of protein arriving crushed or not working properly or the wrong flavor, I tell him, you know what, keep it, I'm going to send you another one. Okay, because I'm going to send you two a matter of fact because I want you to be happy as my customer. I'm not going to treat my customer service like they did just because that's the way the rest of the world is operate. Here's another one, another one. I don't even know if anyone cares about anything in this, but you know what, this is my ran, I can say whatever I want. You don't have to listen. I had to get my thyroid removed as you know and I had to get radio activate. And before I got my radio activate, I had to take two shots to try to gave myself of something called phyrogen. It's basically synthetic TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone. I had to take it two days before I took a shot and then the day before it comes in a box. Like this, it looked like I even did it on video, it looked like a box of GH. And it was two single shots of TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone. So I get a call from the pharmacy the other day, this is weeks after and they're like, oh there's a balance on this. I'm like, oh all right, what is it? You all have 700 dollars. I'm like 700 dollars. I'm like, I said buying insurance in pain, you know this? She's like, well let me check. So she goes to the, she's like, oh no they paid. I said, well how much they paid 10 bucks? She's like, oh the cost of this drug was $4800. $48, so it was $5,000 for two shots of thyroid stimulating hormone. Five grand. Okay, $5,000. I could have bought three from the pharmacy, legitimately. I could have bought three kits of GH of Syrist MGH, which would have lasted me seven with, would have lasted me like three months or four months or five months of GH. For the same price is the tow shots of thyroid stimulating hormone. I had to take. Why was it that expensive? Because not that many people use it. So the government allows these drug companies to charge whatever they want to call the orphan drug at. That's why GH is so expensive. But these, these fuckers charged have the nerve to charge $5,000. $4800. Can you imagine how I didn't have insurance? And I had to do this. That's robbery. That's why our society is falling apart because there's no, there's no equality to anything. There's no reason that we're riding the reason why they charge this. So they charge that. It's arbitrary. It's just like how can we make the most money? We know that people that take this are getting radioactive iodine. And they're desperate. They have cancer. We'll just take advantage of them. It's like to came off therapy drugs through the roof. You think those drugs really cost that much to make bullshit. Bullshit they do. And once again, this is enough to get you depressed. If you really thought about it and let it affect you, I laugh. Because you know what? I know that that's not who I am. I can see the absurdity at it. And my father always taught me, you know what? No matter the depths of depression that you're in, you no matter how sick you are, how down and out you are, always find the absurdity and everything you do and laugh at it. And that makes it go away and lose all its energy. And that's the bottom line. Every time I take my kids to school every morning, they watch the little mermaid. I'm sure a lot of you have seen them a little mermaid. If you have kids, you've seen it multiple times. And it's in my little mini van on the DVD player there. And there's a part where the king tried and he's the king of the mire people. He says those humans, they fish. They put their hooks in these fish and they kill these fish and they gut the fish and they eat. And he's making it. And I'm saying to myself, wait a second. He's upset that the humans are eating fish. What the hell are the mire people eating down in the ocean? What are they eating? What are they eating? They got to be in fish too. Sharks eat fish, other fish eat fish. How come the mire people don't eat fish? What do they eat? Like seaweed? So there's why I mentioned that. I don't know, it just drives me crazy when I drive to work. I see the absurdity and everything. And I laugh and a lot of times people probably drive and buy me. Think I'm crazy. But the purpose of me telling you this is that number one, don't let life get you upset. Don't let it get you depressed. Don't let it get you down. Find the absurdity, everything that happens in life. Everything the bothers you, everything that goes wrong, is always an angle that you can find and laugh at. If you got to do a rant like this on your YouTube channel or your Instagram, do it because it releases everything. It's like therapy. This is my therapy that I do. And never stop trying. Do your best every day. That's my take home. I should do your best. Don't worry about the guy next to you or guys two doors down, who is lazy and sitting home and collecting an unemployment check. Do your best and be your best. And you know what? Leave nothing on the table no matter what anyone else does. This way you can go to bed with a smile and face every single day and say, you know what? I did my best and you know what? I guarantee if you do your best, you'll be successful. And whenever you get down, find the absurdity. That's the famous wise words of Salpalombo. I'm passing them on to you. I'm giving them to you today on this Rx muscle rant. Have a great weekend. I'm Daypalombo. We'll see you next time.

Day, Palombo here with an RX muscle, news update. This just in look at the video and see for yourself. Mr. Olivia Branding Curry, out there at Oxygen Gym, posing outside an actual sunlight. I'm pretty impressed with what I'm saying. A lot of people ask me what I thought of branding chances this year. And I always tell people the same thing. Branding Curry's one dangerous competitor. Why? Because he's got one of the prettiest structures up there on that stage. When he's at his best, any, any has been pretty consistent in the last couple of years. I thought it was really good last year. I mean, if it wasn't for Randy just outsizing, I mean, the curry could have been Mr. Olympia, I guess. But if you look at Brandon's physique, it's pretty. Because it's pretty your eyes go right to that physique when he, on stage. I always tell people 90% I believe of your judging score. Any show is determined on your standing relaxed position and your front double bicep. Because those are the poses you're in the most. Standing that people, the judges are just trying to figure out what they want to do. And they just look at you and you're standing there. That's, and Curry looks amazing standing there. Because he got the small ways, the big broad shoulders. He's got a lot of wow and pop to his physique, especially from the front. And his, his back poses have dramatically improved. We always do we had a great back. And he had great V-Taper. His torso's not too long. It's not too short. It's perfect. His, not always was his legs. But his legs are up. His legs are good. His legs matches up for body now. His glutes, I mean, are really good. His hamstrings are ripped. I mean, he's looking pretty damn good. You know, with eight weeks or whatever we got to go to the Olympia left. I mean, so he's right on track. He's looking bigger than I've seen him in a long time. So that's a good, that's a good sign that we're going to see, not only a good brand of Curry or a great brand. And we're going to see a better brand of Curry that we saw the last couple years, which is what he's going to need to be if he's going to knock off a big rammy, continue to beat Heidi Schouppen, and all the other guys that are surging at this point. And who knows who will be jumping in if Kai Green shows up or, you know, Phil Heath shows up. You know, those are, of course, wild cards, but we don't know about that. But I think that this is a very good look for Brandi Curry. I, I, I, I, I, I met a fact I think that whatever they're doing don't change, you know, it's working at this point. Don't do anything crazy. He's got the added size he needed. I'm sure the judges asked him to put a few pounds on concern areas. It looks like he filled out that frame. I'm super impressed. Now, there's a lot of time between now and the Olympia. Things can go wrong and change and stuff like that. But I think he's on the right track and I'm excited for him to see what he's going to bring to that Olympia stage because I don't want to blow out on that Olympia. I want a big battle up there. I want to see guys, you know, go ahead to head and I want to see those judges have a hard time making a decision. And at the end of the day, I want to see a great show and I think Brandi Curry is going to bring it this year. Day polo with an RX muscle, news update.

Day polo here with an R-X muscle news update this just in. Well not just in but we just heard recently from Flex Lewis that he is out of the 2021 Olympia. There was speculation whether he would do it or not. He was supposed to do it last year. He looked amazing, you know, going into the final weeks of his prep and he decided to pull out he had injuries, he wanted to get some stem cell treatment and I mean the guys I mean there's a seven time, two, twelve, Mr. Olympia. He was moving up to the open. We were all looking forward to seeing him on that stage and because the guy has just got wow factor from here to the moon. And I think that, you know, he's the kind of guy that is a perfectionist. He's like, look if I'm going to do this, I got to do it 100%. So he took off the year last year. He went and got all his therapies. He had to get done, you know, it was to fix a lot of his injuries and then nagging things he had going on and spend some more time with his family. And then I guess the intention was this year to do the Mr. Olympia competition in the open category. And I think that was the plan up until, you know, he had a busy year. I mean, forget COVID. He moved from Boker Raton all the way to Las Vegas, opened the new gym. That alone will drain the life out of you. I mean, if anyone has ever opened the business or moved or both, you want to kill yourself. It's the worst experience of all time moving. Okay, especially when you go halfway across the country and is, you know, and he's got a kid. And so very hard to do. And I think he just found that he was pulled into many directions. And as he said on his Instagram, I didn't want to do this one foot in one foot out. I can't go 50% I got to go 100% up. I'm going to do this. So I think he's feeling good. I think his injuries are good doing well. And he just didn't want to show up and disappoint his fans or disappoint himself. And if he's a good decision, he's at a position where he never has to compete. He got a few days in one foot. He's still young. There's no reason why he can't take his time at this point. He's making money. He has a brand new gym that's state of the art unbelievable. I wish I only wish it was down the block for my house. And he's got, you know, great people there helping him out. So I mean, he set himself up to the future. And then once everything is all settled, if next year he can do it, I'm sure we'll see Flex Lewis on his days. There's no one who wants to do the Mr. Olympia in the helping category. More than Flex Lewis does trust me when I tell you that. He is a fierce, fierce competitor. But he's also not going to show up at less than his best because then he's not going to, he doesn't want to have any regrets. He doesn't want to leave anything on the table. And I completely comply with that. And I completely understand. Now, take, when I was competing, I never would have understood why someone couldn't get ready for a show. Until I actually started trying to move places like from New York to Florida or had some kids or started a couple of businesses, your time gets sucked away from you and before you know it's the days over, you think you're going to go train and then before you look at it, the clock gets 11 o'clock at night and you haven't done anything. So I completely understand good move, Flex. I know we're going to see you back on that stage at some point and you will be at your best and it will be worth the wait. I'm sure for it. Also we got some news in from the Arnold Classic people. I haven't gotten confirmation from Bob Lorne. Again, I texted him yesterday but I see a lot of people are releasing that the, it seems like the Arnold Classic this year, the one in September, will become now a qualifier for the 2021. This year's Mr. Olympia competition in October, which should, which should have been the whole time. But for some reason, they created this rule a couple of years ago where, you know, if it wasn't a month out, you know, then they stopped giving qualifications for this year and they always went through the following year, which was ridiculous. Why would you have an Arnold Classic in September that qualifies you for 2022? It's ridiculous. It's a huge show. It's the second biggest show of the year. And if you're going to do the show in September because you had to push it back as a COVID, you of course you got to make it a qualifier for the Olympia. Make it exception. So I'm hoping that the, the, the, the, the, at least the rumors I'm hearing and the word on the street is accurate and that the Arnold Classic will be a qualifier for this year. I don't think it's going to affect that many people. The people, the person that will probably affect the most will be really waplert because we know really had a qualifier. If he was he was planning to do in the Arnold, it looked like he would have to do a show earlier to qualify even though he was going to do the Arnold because the Arnold wasn't going to be a qualifier. Now I think we'll probably only see him at the Arnold. However, if he does that and he doesn't qualify and something goes wrong, then he's screwed again. He can't do the Olympia again. I still think it's probably a good idea if really wynkly would do a show a little earlier in the year. However, I think it's great. Now for the guys that qualify to ready, they probably don't like the change in rule because they would love to have qualified for next year doing it this year. But it is what it is. Look, if you have a show before the Olympia of this caliber, it has to be a qualifier for this year. Otherwise, it's almost, it's almost say it has no meaning other than the fact that you're going to win some money and get a title. People want to qualify for the Olympia. They want that momentum going into the show. I think it's a good move. If the Arnold people do announce it and it does become reality, I'm 100% in favor of that. I write from the beginning, I said that that Arnold should have been a qualifier for the Olympia. That's how little update for now. Flex Lewis, out of the Olympia, Arnold Classic seems to be a qualifier for this year's Olympia and on day polo, with an Rx muscle news update.

We're here at a Paul and Jim in Edison, New Jersey and I want to introduce myself to you guys. I'm Dean Blumbo. I've been here before. I'm back again. Obviously, I'm just making a impression the first time I was here and we're going to about the start, my seminar, and any of you guys who've been at my seminar is before. We'll know that I really like to kind of gear them according to what your interests are. Some of you have heard me speak before, I don't like to be too repetitive. So I like to get some input what you guys really are interested in knowing about learning more about. I am going to discuss a little bit today about toxicity issues in working out because I think a lot of people take that for granted. The fact that our bodies can only process foods and build muscle and burn fat as efficiently as the body is able to detoxify itself. Now, what does that statement mean? Exactly. What it means is that if you have too much waste coming being produced in the body and the body cannot get rid of that waste, it cludders the protein building, fat burning machinery down. The analogy a lot of times I've given and this seems to hit home is if you have a fish tank at home, okay, specifically when you growing up, you've ever had one of those gold fish balls. You know, when you went to the carnival and you won the free gold fish and you put it in a ball and you would put some fish flakes in there every morning. And after about a week or two, you would notice that if you came up to the ball, it had a weird smell. And that smell was the toxic, you know, the waste products from the fish being excreted into the water plus the decay of some of the food that was in there. And you realize that if you didn't change the water in the ball, gold fish ball, what was going to happen eventually was the fish was going to die. Sometimes you might even have waited until the fish was swimming upside down. Well, the body, the human body is like all the cells in our body are like little gold fish balls. And if these cells are not cleansed, clean, down. What happens is the machinery inside the cells don't work properly. The immune system in our body doesn't work properly, okay? The immune system sucks to overreact to these waste products and creates a lot of inflammation in the body all over the place. That's not good. Usually that leads to skin irritations, acid reflux diseases, all kinds of different things that don't make you feel good. Okay, when your body is trying to combat and get rid of waste, okay, it can't worry about adding new muscle and it can't worry about burning fat. That becomes a low priority. So if you want your body to operate efficiently, okay, it's very important that you not only take in the right nutrients, okay, in the way of foods, when we talk about foods, you talk about macro nutrients, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. And it's not only important that you take in the right micro nutrients in the way of minerals, invitments, and supplements, okay? But it's also important, okay, that we get rid of the waste products that are produced from the metabolism of this stuff. And you know, I was always worried, I always wanted to get to 300 pounds when I was a bodybuilder. That was always my goal and I eventually did and I went over 300 pounds. I was up to, I think it's highest, 119 pounds at one point. And I never really worried about toxic waste in my body or detoxifying the body. The goal and probably a lot of you guys here can relate to this was always stuff as much food into your body as possible. Train as hard as you can, sleep as much as you can so that you can recover from the workouts. And it worked, but I had, I noticed looking back retrospectively, I had a lot of side effects that I didn't really know about. My skin was always really bad. I always had, it was always combating acne problems. For the point where before I show I would take antibiotics, usually for two weeks before it's my skin would clear up. But I never really got it the root of why that was happening, you know? Once again, the skin is the biggest excritory organ in the body. So the body likes to get rid of waste through the skin. So if you find that you break out a lot, or even if you have irritations, if you have egzema sorrises, anything like that that's an irritation of your skin, it probably means that you have a lot of waste to toxins in your body that are trying, your body is trying to get rid of. And the skin is a very easy place for the body to get rid of. Now if you don't have good skin or good pores, a lot of times your body will try to dump waste into your intestinal track. And when there's a lot of acid waste being dumped into your intestinal track, a lot of times that you'll notice and you'll get acid reflux. If you have a lot of acid reflux all the time, you're always getting the digestion that could be a sign of acidification of your body. Some people actually usually this happens in women. Their women store the toxins or the acid waste in their fat cells. So as I was driving through Statlin, I'm sorry a couple of land fills and that's essentially what happens in your body. Your body becomes a landfill and these fat cells become storage depots for these waste. And guess what happens? You try to burn this fat now and your body is not going to want to get rid of it because it doesn't know what to do with all the toxins you have in your body. So we have to have a strategy not only to put muscle on to eat the right nutrients, but also to get rid of the waste products that are being produced from protein digestion, from lactic acid buildup, from working out with waste. Stress is one of the biggest causes of acidic buildup in the body or acid waste buildup. Now how do we get rid of these toxins? Number one, drink a lot of water. You've always heard that. Everyone tells you drink a lot of water when you eat a lot of protein. But the kind of water you drink becomes as important sometimes as how much water you drink. If you ever took a, if any of you went to a store and bought a little pH kit, you can get these things that you could test to pH your pool. They sell them all over the place now. What the pH of your body is or the pH in general is it measures how much acidity and how much alkalinity in the body. The higher the pH, the more alkaline your body is, which is a healthy state to be in. The lower your pH, the more acidic your body is. The more acidic you are, obviously, the less efficiently your body will function. If you test the pH of tap water that has chlorine and fluorine in there and fluoride in there, you'll notice it's very low, which means it's very acidic. I was shocked to find that the pool in spring water filter in my, not water filter, the water jug I have in my house. When I tested that water, it came out very acidic too. So if you're drinking water that's already acidic, you're adding to the acidity problem in your body. So here you are thinking you're flushing your body with pure water, pure bottled water, and you're actually making the situation worse than some instances. So what I recommend people do is that they try to get a source of water that's alkaline in nature. Now, probably, if you've noticed if any of you are big bottled water drinkers, there's a lot of new water bottle, a bottle of water that are on the market now, that they're marketing strategies that it's alkalinized water. Fiji is a very, is a natural source of alkaline's water. It's not very high in alkalinity, but it is higher than anything else that naturally occurs out there. Now, there's some waters that have been produced now where they're actually making the water out the one. They're a little more expensive, but if you start drinking a bottle or two or three of these a day, you'll notice a difference. My good friend Jack Tetonie has a product called Hydralized Ultra Water, which is an alkalinized water. I have a water filter in my house, the my connect my sink to, and I've been using it for probably less six or seven years, and I alkalineized the water. I fill up a picture, and that's the water I use all day long. The truth is you don't really need to drink alkalinized water when you're eating a protein meal because when you eat protein, your stomach releases acids. That's kind of killing the reason. It's not really helping the situation, but during the middle of the day, when you first wake up in the morning, before you go to bed, when you're training in the gym, that's when you should be drinking your alkalinized water on an empty stomach. I actually came across an interesting gadget. I call it gadgets. Whenever I find interesting gizmos, I like to purchase them, I try them myself, and then if they're good, I like to recommend them for other people, but there's something called an iron pot. If you don't want to spend $2,000 on a water filter, it looks like a little metal cylinder, and this metal cylinder you put, you put water. You can put a puddle water in this stuff if you want, but you put water in there, you leave it in there for five minutes, like a little water bottle, and it alkalizes the water. It's really interesting, because the actual iron pot itself comes with a little pH kit, so you can actually test the water, and you can actually see that it's turning it alkaline. You can test all the water in your house from all your taps and your bottle of water, and you can see what you're actually drinking, which I find interesting. It was such an interesting idea that I actually started selling it on my website. If any of you are interested, it's like $45, it lasts eight months, the little cartridge filters, and then you can just replace the filters. They're like a dollar to each, you could buy mine on Amazon. But the iron pot, it's like $45, I recommend it's a very minimum of drink three high-on pots full of water per day, alkaline water per day. And I guarantee you will see an improvement in your skin, your complexion, you'll feel better. If you have indigestion, you drink one of those things and it goes away instantly, and you'll see that your body is starting to recover better. Alclanized water, very important. Another very good detoxifying agent, very, and these are cheap things you can do that will make a big difference in the way your body responds to training, recovery, building muscle burning fat. Apple cider vinegar, I don't know if any of you use apple cider vinegar, but the important thing with apple cider vinegar is you want to buy apple cider vinegar with mother, it's called MOTHER, which means it has the pulp that it still. Braggs, BR-AGGS, makes a brand of apple cider vinegar, you could buy in any health disorder, even the supermarkets are selling brags. I would recommend get brags, brand, it's cheap, it's six bucks, it's a big, big bottle, and make sure you shake it up, and I put it, I put a teaspoon or tablespoon about three times a day. Some people just shoot it down like a shot and then drink water with it. I actually mix it in the water I drink, and what it does is it helps pull toxins out of your body, and it helps alkalineize your body. They think it's the pulp part of it that it actually causes the alkalineization. If any of you have pets, a lot of holistic pet people tell you to put a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar in the pets' water bowl. It's good for the animal, it helps detoxify them. Very simplistic things you can do. There's a supplement I just got introduced to about six months ago called black mica, which is a parapagnetic mineral supplement. I know it sounds very sophisticated, but what it does is they found that they've extracted this mineral supplement. It's a liquid form from these rock formations in Japan called black mica. For some reason, these black mica supplements have an amazing ability to alkalineize the body to restore mineral balance to the body and to pull toxins out of the body. Once again, if you put, if you took the most disgusting water you can find outside in the puddle and you put it in the glass and you added a dropper tube, this black mica supplement, you would notice all the crap fall to the bottom of the cup because it draws toxins. Now imagine if you put this into your body what happens is it pulls the toxins that build up and add to your body. Another interesting thing that a lot of us since we work out and we eat a lot and we eat very frequently don't realize is that it takes about eight hours after the last time you eat. So when you eat a meal, it takes eight hours before that meal is completely out of your body. Now the body can't start detoxifying itself or releasing stored toxins in your body because remember what happens is when the body is digesting food and building muscle, it doesn't have time to start getting rid of toxins so it stores them. It encapsulates them and stores them. When your body is given a rest from food ingestion, then your body is not releasing these toxins and you excret them out of your body, whether you pee them out or you poop them out, it doesn't matter. Oliys are eating and you never take more than an eight hour break. In other words, if you go to sleep at midnight, you wake up at 8 a.m. and you start eating your first meal, you're really never having time to detoxify your body. So what I recommend once a week, you guys to do and I wish I would have done this when I was training once a week, go 12 hours when you don't eat anything. So if you go to bed at 10 o'clock at night, don't eat anything until 10 the next day. Go 12 hours once a week, give yourself a 12 hour fast because from eight hours after the last meal, you'll have a four hour period where your body will be able to release toxins out of your body because it won't be digesting food during that time period. Okay, the important thing when you do this, you might feel weird and get weird headaches and feel like weird flushes because what's happening is your body is finally able to get rid of these toxins and what it does is just to spit them out through your intestine tract and into your body. Now if you don't have the right supplements you're drinking or drinking the right fluids to flush them out of your body, your body could re-absorb these toxins back into the bloodstream and you're going to feel super terrible. Okay, so what you want to do is when you during this period where you're fasting or right before you're fasting and right after you're fasting you want to make sure you're taking in a good fiber supplement twice a day because fiber binds toxins in the colon and pulls them out. Okay, and that brings you, you know, a lot of people ask people kind of fiber supplements, you know, you should use. I made fiber-lice just for that very reason. I didn't realize how intuitive it was. I knew that there was a lot of health benefits to fiber and I knew that it was important to take a fiber supplement that had both insoluble and soluble fiber in it. Very important, and you don't want to fiber supplement that has sugar in it because sugar kind of ruins some of these good effects. What fiber we'll do is it'll lower your cholesterol levels, your bad cholesterol levels because it binds up bile salts and cholesterol salts and pulls them out of the body. It'll stabilize your blood sugar because it prevents the liver from overproducing glucose. It will prevent you from ever getting colon cancer. If you take two servings of fiber twice a day, an insoluble, unsoluble, fiber supplement, you'll never get colon cancer because what it does is fiber does is it alkalinizes the colon. It reduces the acidity level. Now you can't get rid of all the acidity in the colon, think about what's in the colon. It's fecal matter in there. But you can reduce the acidity in there by doing so the immune system works better. But more importantly, and something that I didn't realize was that it binds up toxins that your body releases and draws them out of the body. It helps facilitate the removal of waste and that's important. I know a lot of you guys probably who beat we five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten times a day. So why go to the bathroom a million times a day already? I already go three, four times a day. How much more do I need to go? Well, if you're only removing 80% of what you're supposed to be getting out of your body, then there's 20% being retained in your colon. And while it might eventually come out, you're going to be absorbing reabsorbing the toxins from this waste. You want to get, you want your food to move through you at a good rate and you want to get rid of all the waste products all the time. That's very important. I recommend a fiber supplement twice a day. Fiber lies. I have a fruit punch flavor and a lemonade flavor. It's delicious. It's got no sugar in it whatsoever. And I guarantee you once you start using it, you'll never stop. It's like a religious experience there really is. But it's very important when you're detoxifying to use a fiber supplement. What do you use mine or use someone else's? What else do we need to do to support this detoxification process? I've already talked to you about black mica. I've talked to you about alkalinized water. I've talked to you about apple cider vinegar. I've talked to you about fiber. Well, in the colon, lining our colon, is a layer of bacteria or beneficial bacteria called probiotic organisms. These are organisms that are good for us. These are bacteria that do good stuff for us. They produce vitamin K. They line the layer. They prevent the colon from being attacked by inflammatory molecules. They keep pathogens out of your body. That's why we're always ingesting bacteria in our foods. When you get food poisoning, it's that's the only time that you're actually ingesting bad stuff. We're always ingesting bad stuff. What happens is the good bacteria in your colon protect your your body. They say that there's something like we have like 10 pounds of good bacteria in our body. Think about how small bacteria are. That's a lot of bacteria. But when we take antibiotics, where you get chronic diarrhea, or you don't feel good, or whatever the case may be, these bad good bacteria die off a lot of times. And a lot of us are probably walking around with less than enough of these bacteria. And that affects your body's ability to process foods. It affects your body's ability to remove toxins. So it's very important that you take a good probiotic supplement. There's different versions. A lot of times, though, you'll see if you go to your health food store is a refrigerated section. That's where most of them are. Because remember, these are bacteria. They're alive. They're live cultures. You want to keep them alive. A lot of times they need to be refrigerated and they're refrigerated form. There's a website called Custom Probiotics. But you can actually, there's a million different formulations on there. Once a year, I, someone got me on to this about a year ago. Once a year, it's a good idea to do a 60 day run of a custom probiotic. They have a 6 in 1 strain. This 6 strains of bacteria. And it's a little scooper and you can mix it in some more and you just go up a down. It's pretty much a tasteless. And you can restore your good bacteria. It's good to do that. If you're on a long course of antibiotics, because you get sick or whatever the case may be, some people are on it chronically, because they have vet acne. Some people have different different issues going on. But this is a good thing to do is restore the probiotic organ as the good bacteria, the intestinal floor to your body. If you take that multi-tiered approach, I guarantee your body is going to burn fat better. You're going to build muscle better. You're going to feel healthier. And the first thing you'll notice, people will tell you the whites here eyes look clear. If you look in the mirror and you got, I'm not talking about yellow, join-to-size. I'm talking about murky eyes. Your eyes will get super super white when your body is detoxified. And I guarantee everyone in here has got some level of toxicity build up in their body. Unless you're someone who does a lot of things, I tell you about.

I don't know, it's a good question. You know, off season I try to keep the dosages to two compounds, you know, like two and a bottle, like a testosterone and an anabolic and then maybe some growth hormone. I don't ever use like three compounds very rarely. Maybe just in the beginning, some of them might throw a few deep wall tabs in or something like that. But I try to keep it to two compounds because I find that your body can eat better. Because the limiting factor off season, a lot of times, not the drugs, it's the ability to get that food down. If you're taking toxic compounds at the world or short acting, you know, injectables a lot of times they kill your appetite and if you can't eat, you can't grow. So now pre-contest appetite is never a problem, right? Because you're starving all the time. So I don't mind using three compounds or four compounds pre-contest because I'm not worried about the appetite being destroyed and I'm not worried about receptor overload because at this point we're not growing. We're just trying to maintain muscle, give the body a hard look. And I think that's the difference, at least in my mind, of why people use more drugs pre-contest versus off season. At least that's my rationale. I don't know if other people have, I think some people in their mind think that they can actually grow muscle while they're getting ready for a trophy, take more drugs. Of course that's not the case because you're on a limited amount of resources because you're trying to deprive your body of what it needs a little bit, right? So you lose body fat every week. In doing so, your body's first priority is not going to build muscle. It's just trying to survive, so to speak. You're trying to maintain muscle while burning body fat. So don't confuse the two processes or you're going to accomplish nothing, essentially.

Old school body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. With another episode alive with Dave Plumbo, as always I'm going to be your host, Anthony Squally. If you've never, if you're new to this segment, we basically bombard you with random questions that I selfishly come up with topics that I want to talk about. So Dave, how you doing? We survived the hurricane, so we're back to normal. Hold me here today. You look like my uncle Vinnie with that mustache. I can tell you. Well, this is the true story here. I shaved my face now once a week with hair clippers. When I naturally shave my face on one side and then do the other and a lot of times I just shaved half of it and do like a Harvey-Doo face. I got to the mustache yesterday. I was like, I can leave it. Then I was like, shit, I'm going to do a YouTube thing with Dave and people looking back, who's this tool with the mustache? I think mustache is a back-end in style. Chris Bumstead had one, the last year's a one here, right? Remember even like you even said it to me, I remember eight years ago when I was prepping me for USA's and I had the mustache and all the pictures you were like, you look like Tom Selle. You do look like Tom Selle. You look exactly like him. And if you lost a little weight, you probably looked like Ray Mensei. Yeah, that would work. Yeah, I'd be getting a lot of assets. It was 1975. You know? The mustache is a right. I'm telling you. Yeah, mustache is an skinny jeans. You know, we can't do skinny jeans. No. My father had a mustache at my whole life, practically. And you know, when he shaved it, I didn't even recognize him. I was like, that was just like my image of my father. I never saw him in that mustache. But, you know, it works for some people. Some people don't look good without the mustache, you know? Yeah, it's true. Yeah, some people have a certain look. They can only look a certain way. So that's very true. I always felt like mustache has made people look more intimidating. A little, a little meaner looking, you know? Totally. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's always like I always said it's like if you have a son and you name him Carmine, by default. Yeah. He's not going to be a whimp. Like you know what I mean? Like it's a good name. You know what I mean? It's hard. So God, did he go to jail? Yeah, Carmine looks like he busts legs on the weekends, you know? He's going to do shady stuff. Like, oh my boy, for the same Carmine, I was like, oh, who's going to be good? I'm going to kill you with the meet-up. Oh, yeah, that's right. So one of the questions I wanted to start with for you today was, and a lot of people are new to the channel, but have been following a long time a lot of people as well. I knew, obviously you've done fish. You've done cat breeding, snake breeding. You've done a lot of stuff that I'm not even thinking of right now. Do you, in Florida, do you still have a lot of plants around your property? Like you in a plant anymore? Like what do you have going on for plants in your home, where on your property do you like? Yeah, and I'm big in the plants. I have a lot of trees, but you know what? I really didn't water them that much, and we had a really dry winter. And I, a couple of them, I lost a couple, but I around my garage, I'm kind of a seasonable, I put my seedlings and my little clippings and somebody that, and I have a cat dye growing, and I have all my fruit trees in pots that I'm growing up from small little, either seeds or little clippings. And it's funny because the ones in pots do way better than the ones in the ground. And I don't know, aside from the big fruit trees, like I have mango trees and my properties and my other cottage trees, but I think as I water them every day, plus the soil is not great in, see if the fertilizer is a lot in Florida. And for some reason, the citrus trees do horrendous in the ground because the bugs get them in pots by my garage. It's amazing. It's like I have a, like a green, like I almost have a green house, like right outside my garage. I forgot because of several months ago, I think it was a pineapple. Did you get your first pineapple? You took a Instagram video with? I've done a pineapple, but I also did another plant that's like a red pineapple, but it's not edible that one, and I just, I just actually have some pineapple's now. And once again, they're not edible, but I'm going to take them and I'm going to make more of them because they look cool, you know, you make it physically eat them. We produce mandarin's. I actually produced my first, I planted in a pot, a blueberry. I don't even know this. There's red blueberries. No, they know that. Yeah, I produced a couple of them. If they taste really sweet, they're really cool. Look, and they look pink almost. They're pink blueberries. And they're really cool. I did those. And I'm always, I'm always planting, so I have a little plant to also start that. I'm always putting stuff in there. And I actually, you know, I read potatoes and purple potatoes. I think we talked about this in one of the episodes. So I took the purple potatoes and I planted them in the plant, or like buried them in the soil, and I forgot about it. And I saw sprouts coming out of them and stuff like that. Sometimes you don't have to leave me in your house too long. They start sprouting, and they throw them in the soil. I said, throwing them in the garbage, I threw them in the soil. And they grew branches, they're like that. And I forgot about them. And then I said, one day I was like, kind of just like playing around the soil. And a potato popped out of the soil. And then I remember that they grow under the soil. They had to be like 30 potatoes under the soil that I grew up. So I actually produced potatoes, too. We were not playing. I didn't know, I only know that because back, you know, how it is. I'm sure in New York, they did it to somewhere. But we're from, you know, in the fall, you go apple picking and pumpkins and all that. But then they had these rakes and you would rake and you could dig up potatoes. I never done that before. So it was kind of cool. You kind of character in the ground, so you're like, yeah, be cool to do something. As the kids get old, you can take them. You can rake the potatoes. And then they'd understand like, wow, that's why they're dirty. They come out of the ground. You know, do you have any animals to try to eat everything? Or is that a problem? Yeah, I have wild peat. They were originally domesticated in another free peacocks that run around my neighborhood. And they steal a little the fruit. They steal my black, very bushes, too. They're delicious to use black rice. They steal everything if you give a chance to. And they're like, it's like, it's like a trooper that I'm going around. You would think like, and for some reason, my porch is there like, or they like to hang out there in the morning. And so you know, you know, how you get up in the morning and you're like, I got to go have my contact lenses in. I go to the window and look at, you know, it isn't this like a peacock, like in my face. And like, I like, and then there's one peacock, a female that like thinks from the top of my BMW X7 is a nest. It's in my garage on the top of that. My kids are throwing bread up to it, which means it's never going to leave, you know. So I'm just waiting for one that I come out there and there's going to be like a nest of eggs there and stuff like that. So it's just so funny how your life is so different than that. Well, you would have described it up 10 years ago. And the funny thing is this is the kind of, I love animals. Like so this is like my dream. I'm like, you know, my kids are getting, if I would have had this as a kid, I would have probably been a veterinarian or something like that, you know. Well, no, I know we've talked about it before, but the sense of I've been in the year, a place of half a dozen times every time I come up, even like you start with the porch, it's a nice piece of land. Like even from, it's like it's just kind of, you always have like a little breeze going on and you get a water in the back. It's nice. It's a nice place. I like the bill, though, like my own zoo, eventually, you know, there, but it's slow and going, I just actually got blue tree monitors. I was had to do some video. We'd put it up, they only get about there about three feet with their tail, but their bodies are about this big. And they basically, there are boreal, they like to hang out in trees. And that's in the league, like, bird eggs and stuff like that. The elite piece of raw chicken off the roof of a tongs, the insects, they'll put it into eating anything, but they're really tame. And they'll come on your arms, something like that, and they're blue. It's like the most incredible looking thing. Maybe Tuck, find a picture of a blue tree monitor, put it up there, but they're really kind of cool looking. And that's what that's my new little obsession I have now. I'm trying to build a big, or boreal cage. And I'm thinking about either putting it outside or maybe keeping it inside of the side. Because you could actually keep reptiles outside of Florida because the weather's so good. I knew that. I was looking at those things. I don't know if they can see it, but they're resting people can see it. They're super cool. You would never know if these things exist in your house. Is your wife Amanda Thrill with this new project? I think at first she didn't really, she was like, but then I think she's soar, and you can't not think these things are cool. And it's cool. So I bought quite, have you guys have you ever tried Quayle eggs? I love them. I never tried them. I love them. Quayle eggs is supposed to be, if you ever go to a good fancy sushi restaurant, someone will crack a Quayle egg over like a like a some tuna tartar or something like that. It's really good, but I actually really, really is. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm a rose. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm a rose. They did. And so they're like this big. They're like the eggs. And so suppose they eat Quayle eggs, which I went out and I bought, they actually have them in the public supermarkets. And it's like five bucks for like, and then this big, I think there was six of them or eight or 10 of them or something like that. You know, the little overpriced, I figured you know what? If I give it once a week, I'll give them a Quayle egg, because the shell is made of calcium. And calcium is good for these animals, need calcium. So it's a good way to get calcium into their body. I mean, we think about it. We take supplements. Animals need to supplement, especially if they're not outside and they're exposed to the sunlight, and they're eating wild things and something like that. So, Quayle eggs, so I'm sorry, a namin with these quayle eggs that I want to, my wife, you need to hold does, and she's like in one sitting there so small. I said I'm not eating them, but I said if we got Quayle and we bred quayles, I don't like chickens, chickens to me. I don't, they just, just something about the way they look and kind of freaks me out. And they poop all the time. So I've quayles, I kind of like almost look like dubs. They're, they're really cool. If I can breed Quayle and Quayle eggs seem to be much more valuable than regular chicken eggs. That would be great. Tyler would be harvesting that. I'd come out of like, where the hell are all the quayle eggs? Tyler, Tyler already, like, put him in his car, you know, so that's a possible future project. So speaking of plants, this is an interesting segue. And maybe you've covered this on your channel, but we've never spoken about it one on one through all my body building time and to each their own. Yeah. But you know, 2000, whatever, through 2000, whatever, I never, I've never, it's smoked marijuana in my whole life. I've never liked the smell of it or whatever, and edibles weren't really a thing. And a point of frustration for me when I was body building was, I sometimes I just wasn't hungry. And then once I realized that edibles existed back in 2018 and I tried one, I noticed I could eat more. And what I was trying to do in 2010 timeframe when we started working together was I was always trying to get my hands on prescription marinol, which was, I guess, stuff they give the cancer patients, it doesn't get them high, but allows them to eat more. So, but I always speculated, you know, I had good success within body building. And I felt part of the reason why I went by other people was, I felt like a lot of the people I knew that smoked a lot of weed were, they were a little more soft, and they held a little bit more water and they weren't getting as grainy. Now that was just my limited experience against other amateurs, but I just want to get your thoughts on all that, did you ever use marijuana, did you ever consider it to eat more? Like, what was your journey like with the plants? And that way. I, you know, I probably have maybe smoked pot maybe three times in my life. I just, it makes me feel very stupid. And I, I, I don't like that because in other words, it's fine when you're doing it, but I feel like it has a residual effect afterwards. I still feel like for a couple days like I'm out of it. And I don't know if that's just because I'm not used to it, but it's I never really liked it in terms of that. As far as eating goes, you know, I came from a running background. So I was running 10 miles a day for five year straight. My, and I used to starve myself, too, because I wanted to keep my weight down because for running. So my appetite is insatiable. So when I started allowing myself to eat to grow, there's nothing that could stop. Like, you know, there was even when I wasn't hungry, I could eat, I could always eat. And I had the ability to just pour stuff down my throat. And I don't have a gag reflex, nothing. So I, I had no problem eating. There were points where I didn't want to eat, you know, and I would force myself to eat, but I had no problem doing that. I know people that can't do that physically will throw it up. They just, they get a gag response going, I somehow, my body can handle. So I never had an eating problem. Okay. When I would die, I, I was, you know, I'm very disciplined, but I hated it because, you know, I was, I don't like to be hungry. I like to be like, you know, when I want, you know. So that wasn't an issue. But I do work with people who have appetite issues or maybe their stomachs, you know, I was talking to a professional eater, a Bartley Weaver, the other day who just turned pro, actually. And he does eating. And you know, these eaters drink enormous amounts of water during the day to stretch out their stomach. Rather than just eating enormous amounts of food, they don't want to get fat. They'll drink like a gallon of water at one time. And that what that does is it stretches your stomach. And when your stomach is stretched more, you can, you're, you're hungry because it, the, the appetite shut off has a lot to do with the stretch of the stomach. So that's how they're able to consume so much food, you know, when they're doing their eating contest. So I believe that, you know, maybe from drinking a lot of shakes, I think I stretched my stomach too, so I can, my capacity for food is better. But when I would die it and I would eat small portions, my stomach shrunk up. And you know that, you know, you try to go out and cheat me. You eat like, you know, normally we need to know, problem in your full right away because your stomach capacity. So I think that's a trick that you have to work on. And if you can't do it with food, when you wake up in the morning, drink, you know, try to drink, you know, 16, 32 ounces of of liquid, just pour water down your throat. The number one, it'll hydrate you really well. Number two, though, it'll give that stomach a little bit of a stretch and that's going to really increase your appetite or your capacity to eat more. People don't get past that capacity to eat more. I think that's a problem. Now, if you don't have a fast metabolism, there's no reason to do that. But for people that super fast metabolism, you gotta be able to consume enough food. And there's always that, like, while my eating too much food and overstretching my stomach and am I going to get an extended stomach? Well, for most people know, but, you know, obviously, when you get to the level of 300-plus pounds, I don't know, maybe that, you know, maybe at that point becomes counterproductive. I don't know. But the point is that if you have trouble eating that's number one way to do it, the second good way to do it would be to cut your carbs back. So you're in the middle of an offseason, you can't eat your eye eye can't eat a can't eat a can't eat. Cut your carbs back for three days. You'll be starving because your body will think it's dieting and your appetite will come back. And I do that with my guy. Sometimes I cut their protein back, actually, believe it or not. Sometimes people are just a little overly toxic because they're eating so much protein that their bodies are kind of getting behind and processing it. And so if you cut that, like, some of the cut it half and I'll actually increase their carbs for like a week and all of some boom made that they're hungry again. So this different reasons why people lose their appetite, you know, and I've never really experimented. I know back in my day, a lot of guys used something called terriactive. It was an antihistamine. The problem was the first seven days you took it, all you wanted to do was sleep all day. I never got through the seven days, so I never really used them. But I didn't really need it. But I know a lot of guys used that back in the day too. And my next question for you, it just popped into my head is speaking of that contest prep world. And I think this one's helpful to a lot of people. Now, I'll share my experience anecdotally and then you can explain if it makes sense logistically. So we'll use me as an example. So like a lot of times, you know, my diet with you would start just like everyone else is when they first start with you within, you know, some variants. Right. A lot of times for people that don't know when you and I would work together, what's my metabolism would get going? It would get going pretty good. And then you would just kind of poke at it when we needed to keep it going. Right. But interestingly, enough, a lot of times, I felt like I noticed, say a week off from a show after doing 13, 15 weeks of some sort of carbocation. A lot of times, I almost felt like you were, you would flip me and you would then lower the fats and then increase the carbohydrates. And I always speculated that if you've been burning fat for say 13 weeks, right? And then you take someone who's pretty lean and then you switch the fuel source and now you pull fats from their diet and then they're burning on carbs that sometimes the person might use their own body fat because that's the only fat available. Does that and it totally makes sense to you or what are your thoughts on that? Usually when people get stuck at the end, is when I start going anti-logic. I call it anti-logic. Because logically, you would think you would do this in this and it would work because it's been working the whole diet and then all of a sudden the person's stuck so you have to kind of do the anti-logical thing. Well, what, let's do the opposite of what we're doing. Let's increase carbs. Let's cut back cardio. Let's shake their body up. It's not working the way because it happens to the body catches on to what you do and it doesn't want to do it anymore. Now you throw a monkey wrench into the whole thing and the body is like, what the freak is going on here? And it starts burning fat. I did this with women. They were on no food. They're on three hours of cardio. They're on maximum fat burns. They're not losing a pound. I see you know what? Don't do any cardio for two days and let's add 30 grams of carbs three or four times a day. They're like, I'm going to gain weight and they want to lose five pounds. So your body will only take so much and then when it starts to shut down and re-bell against what you're doing, that's when you have to do something. That's why when people say, oh, it's the same diet to this person and to that person. Yeah, but you know why it doesn't, it gets changed considerably different for different people because not everyone is the same and not everyone's body responds the same. So the initial template of how a person starts doesn't even matter. It's it's irrelevant. You can start with anything, a diet. It's how it's altered on it on a daily weekly, however, often, however, often it gets changed. That's what makes the coach. The coach is the person who is changing the program because it's dynamic. It's not a static program. Now, I've worked with people. I've gone 12 weeks in a row and never changed no damn thing. Again, they lost two pounds a week consistently and they got in shape for a show. I, why? I don't know. That's just the way they're body work. I said, I would say every week I feel guilty. I feel like I feel guilty because I don't have to change anything. I said, but you know what, you get to eat a lot of food. You're not doing a lot of cardio and you get in shape who cares. The diet work perfectly for you. But for most people, you have to make changes. Usually those occur more so as you get closer to the show as body fat levels get lower because then the body starts to say, hmm, hmm, what's going on here? We better we got to slow this stuff down. I don't like the fact that this body matters so low. It's making me nervous. We got to trick the body into thinking that everything's cool. Sometimes more food, more carbs, which stimulates more insulin release, kind of will say to the brain, oh, we're fine. You know, we got, we got to, we got to like, oh, we got to plenty of food coming in. Oh, okay. All right. Let's pick up the metabolism again. So it's a game of, of observe process and then make a decision. That's why it's very hard to advise yourself that. You know, I have a guy came to me this week and I'm helping him with the last week prep and I'm like, and he was reducing his fat burn as an increasing his carbs and he's not in shape yet. He probably needs to lose another two to three pounds. I'm like, you're, you got two days left to do this. I said, you got to this every day counts now. You got to suffer for two days. And he's suffering and he's improving. So it's hard, you know, he's reading in a book or online. All right, at this point you had this many carbs. You can't follow formulas. If your body is not in the right place, I guess you could say, you know, and not everyone needs that many grams of carbs of this many. It's so variable. And for me to make a generalization would be not, you know, have you since, and I haven't asked you this. I was thinking about it since all that pancreatic stuff happened or whatever. Have you made some, did you make any dietary, do you enjoy changes? And if so, how is that affected your physique, either in your strength or your leanness or even your cognitive function? What's been going on with that? You mean with my thyroid, not pancreas? Sorry, yeah, yeah, I don't give any of these to any pancreatic problems. That's all right, that's all right. No, yeah, you know what? Nothing. And when I say, if I didn't know that I had cancer of the thyroid, I wouldn't believe it. I'd cancer of the thyroid because I never had a single symptom. The surgery, Tyler picked me up. I was pumping gas that the day he picked me up from the surgery. I didn't have any pain. I didn't have any fatigue. I went on the replacement like they told me to do and he had, and I didn't have any, I didn't notice any difference in my metabolism. How I looked or how I felt energy-wise. My friend bumped up my thyroid a little bit from I think I was taking 137 to, I found it up to, he up to like 175 or something like that on T4. Just because he thought my TSA was a little high and I didn't even notice a difference. So I met that. My last levels I got checked were normal and I feel this exactly the same. I don't feel any different, like I said, I don't, I'm sorry, if I'd never scar here, I wouldn't, I wouldn't believe I had my thyroid removed. And then I got the the radio activate, I had that one pill. I never even noticed I took it. So I don't know, you know, maybe I had very good results and I was lucky. I'm hoping you know when I get scan and whatever it is, another three or four months, you know, everything is fine. But luckily nothing. I didn't change my diet. I'm doing exactly what I did before. Okay. Question four, you were guarding a supplement related question. You know, well, two questions for you. Resveratrol, what are your thoughts on it as I see it coming up more and more within a lifespan category? And as someone like you that's got a family, you're at that point where you care about lifespan, health, and feeling good anti-aging. What's your thoughts on Resveratrol? You know, the research seems to be that it stimulates these cert two receptors, which, you know, have been shown when they're stimulated that it increases longevity. That's, you know, it's the same receptor that will get stimulated when you fast. Okay. When you're on low calorie diet. So it kind of like is like a, it's like a fast without having to do a fast, so to speak. Yep. I've taken Resveratrol before. I don't even know if it's in my regiment, I have so many vitamins I take. I kind of rotate stuff around. I don't think it could hurt although I've read that, you know, you don't want as a bodybuilder trying to put on mass. I think cert two stimulation is not so great because I think it does reduce IGF1 levels a little bit, which is exactly what they think. You know, less IGF1, you live longer supposedly. I don't know, there's a direct correlation. I remember seeing, I got to give Steve Blackburn credit for the CEO. He says, what's good for bodybuildings, not good for living a long time. So in other words, inflammation is good for bodybuilding in a sense, not excessive, obviously chronic, but some inflammation is good because it stimulates, you know, a record on gas and release and signals through the body to repair and heal itself. Whereas, if you try to live a one time, inflammation is not good because that's, you know, can lead you, you know, heart disease cancer, all that other stuff. But once again, we're talking about a cute inflammation is good because that's stimulus for, hey, repair my body, chronic inflammation, no good. You know, they did a study when they gave non-story land the inflammatorys to older people and they're like 80s, 90s, 100 years old, and they found that those people actually built muscle better when they were on these non-storyials because they were chronically inflamed for whatever reason. I don't know if it was age or later or whatever, dilated. When they gave those same non-storyials to younger people, they found that it inhibited muscle growth because in those people, it reduced inflammation too much. So what the correct answer is that you want to have some inflammation, but not too much inflammation, because some inflammation will signals. That's why sometimes if you eat a very anti-inflammatory diet, like I do like fish and egg whites or something like that, it's a good idea to eat some red meat, or some chicken, and they're periodically to produce, excuse me, a little or a academic acid, so that your body and the rockathonic acid we know is one of the essential fatty acids, CO-megasix, is a precursor to inflammatory across the gland. And so you want to have some. So it's not that's why if you're a vegative vegan, which would be a very anti-inflammatory diet, you probably want to take like the X-factor stuff myself from Bill LaWellon on mydaypalumbo.com website, because that will give you that arachytonic acid because the organs are very devoid in arachytonic acid. And we know arachytonic acid is necessary as an essential fat for muscle growth and repair. So once again, it's all about, always about balance. And so you have to find that right balance. I know I've seen on your Instagram or sometimes on your when you've posted stuff in the past that I'm sure there are I'm assuming there are some people that are surprised when Dave brings his kids and they eat some chicken nuggets or something like that and you're capped in health. Everyone's super apparently know that right? Super everyone's a guru. So that being said, where I'm headed with this question is as I love I always appreciate how you always remind me how neurotic I am. Take you to know what that is a mutual love and respect there. And obviously at this point in my life, I'm not a parent. But I have some family members that have some of our kind of characteristics. But honestly, they're phenomenal parents. My question for you is as some that's neurotic with yourself in certain areas. But maybe you're like, you know, if my kid wants us some gummy bears in a twizzlers that we're going to do that, are there areas as a parent where you are neurotic that we like know iPads after APM or like, where, walk me through this where the day this, I'm shows up as a parent. Yeah, my, you know, my kids don't listen to anything I say unfortunately. My wife is really the one they listen to. But and they don't even still, my kids like walk all over us in a sense. But maybe we've enabled that. I don't know. I think my son is a lot like me, but he's also like a, a not a lit. He doesn't like to listen. With food, with kids it's weird because kids are weird eaters and stuff like that. So you don't want him to not, you don't want to make him so neurotic about food that they don't eat anything. So, you know, like my daughter-to-money and he, she's in the stage because they go through stages where she won't eat any protein. She just wants like carbs, frorly fruit and she'll eat, you know, anything with carbs that it passed the mac and cheese, she was just not eating protein. But you know what the doctor, the prenatures are that these kids will eat protein when they crave protein. And then I'll see my kids go through stage with all they want us protein. Like my son will be eating cheese burgers and they'll be eating chicken nuggets and you know what the truth is? I believe that kids can pretty much get away with eating anything. They're like, they're like little garbage disposal. They can, they can extract the nutrients they need from that because their bodies are so young. Now, if they're overweight because they're eating junk food. Like sometimes my, my, my second daughter will, you got to be careful with her because she can have that tendency. So I got to limit desserts with her. I try to get her stuff. It's like a little healthier and no fruit to high-fruits, a corn syrup and it's over there. But if you kids and not overweight and they're eating this food and they're metabolizing it, they don't worry about. I mean, I ain't McDonald's every day for 10 years and I have no clockages in my arteries because I had no, I have no body fat. In other words, I wasn't accumulating this stuff. So if they're burning it, I don't think it's the end of the world for them to eat stuff. And I'm changing my, my paradigm because before I was a parent, I'm like my kids are eating nothing bad. But it's an unrealistic paradigm because kids, you know, want to be kids. And so I, and if you're deprived, find if you deprive them when they're young, they tend to go crazy when they get older and they have the ability to go by the food themselves. My kids are like, I was de-sensitized. My idol junk food in my house is a kid. I don't know why my mother bought whatever we wanted. She was sugar cereals and all that out of the crap. By the time I had high school, I was becoming an athlete and learning about how to eat and something that I didn't even want to do that stuff anymore. I'm like, I already had it. I'm like, ugh, you know. So I think that there's a balance. I look, I eat to chicken nuggets. My kids leave over the chicken nuggets. I'm like my father. I clean off their plate. I eat everything. That's just the way it is. You know, we've got it. We went to a water, uh, what is it called? Sun splash. It's a water park. They got a snack bar. They, you know, they, wouldn't they got their, they got burgers, they got fries, they got chicken to, I eat chicken tenders. They, they're probably, the burgers are probably healthy and the chicken tenders because they're all breaded, you know, deep fried. I'm like, not at least a meat and chicken, you know. I mean, I mean, everyone's french fries and I'm eating the burgers that they leave over. So, you know, but I got a fastman haveles. I don't do it every day, but, you know, every, every day I'll eat a little snack here and there. But like I said, I can do that. If I was overweight or, you know, sometimes I, I'm always checking my blood sugars. My blood sugars are high. I'm like, oh, I gotta stay away from these fried foods, you know, or maybe I'm eating to any carbs. You know, I'm a little neurotic, but at the same time, I'm a little more relaxed now because I'm not really competing and stuff like that. I try to balance my protein intake with my carbon dicts. So, sometimes some days on a higher and protein. If I feel like really depleted, I'll go higher and carbs. I kind of go by instinct now, you know. My blood sugars are usually fairly good. Sometimes they run high if I eat a really, really crappy meal. They'll stay elevated for a couple hours. But my blood work is a little pretty normal at this point. So, I'm not really getting too crazy about anything. You know, I always check my kidney function. I know that's something you probably do to create any levels. If your creatine's normal, then there's nothing to worry about. If my, when my creatine was a little higher several years back, I was watching my protein intake. Now, my protein intake has raised it up a lot more and reduced my carbs a little bit more because my kidney function is fine. Now, I probably didn't even need to reduce the protein intake. But that's how I'm like, you, I'm totally neurotic. I go by blood work. If the blood work is not right, then I want to get my body arrested and let my kidneys regenerate a little bit. And when my creatine is normal, which is better, you know, almost like one or something like that or, you know, one point one, then I feel good eating whatever I want in terms of protein. So, you know, if that's what happens when you get old, you have to kind of like cycle your eating. I think that's a good way to put it. I just don't think at 53, 60 years old, unless you're competing, okay? Because if you're competing, obviously, differently. If you're not competing, there's no reason to be eating, you know, six, eight times a day, you know, jamming three, four, and jamming three times a protein in a day. I just don't think it serves a purpose. If you're competing, however, and that's something that you want to do, then obviously that's, then that's, you have to eat that way. Talk to me a little bit about, I don't know if, I think, when you lived in New York, you had at least one, you might have had two properties at some points or maybe even other things, right? So obviously, at some point you dabbled in real estate and, you know, you have your place here in Florida. Obviously, you've been close with Chris Hasido forever and when I can recall, I know he's comes from the real estate world. So he lives in operates and within that extensively. My question for you is, as someone that's been in that world and then, you know, I get, you see stuff on YouTube with people like, oh, by a single family home when you can't, what's your thoughts on that is someone that's kind of been down that road? You know, the thing I, I did in New York, I had actually, it's 1.3, and I sold one of them. It was in that such a great area. It was in an okay area and I was making rent, but for some reason the town was breaking my balls about they wanted it to be owner occupied. It was a two family house, but they wanted to live in it. Why they changed the laws after however I owned it five years. So I sold it and I actually made a very good profit on it. I think I made like 200 grand profit on it or something like that. And right after I sold it, the real estate dropped. So I actually did well on that. When I sold my two, I decided one house and then I had another house around the corner, I was renting one of them out. And when I moved, when I decided to move and I sold both of them, it was at an all-time low. So I made a few bucks in the houses, but I could it, right now they're they're double what I, what I actually sold mine from. So it's kind of like, oh, but the taxes there were really, really high. So when you buy a house to invest, you have to number one say, okay, it's not just how much the house costs. What is it, what is the maintenance on it? What is it going to cost you to make the house? What are your taxes? In New York, it's really high, you know, these the taxes are so high you almost can't make enough money on the rents because remember, there's always going to be months where something goes wrong. When someone's going to pay your rent, you're going to have to kick out a tenant that doesn't pay for two, three months. Are you going to lose money because of that because you're paying, you know, $2000 a month in taxes, you know, you have to, that has to be, you know, figured into the whole process. So I really didn't like being a landlord because you know, whenever I let my friends live there, I always had a problem because then they thought they didn't have to pay me. And when I went through real estate, I got better results. But when people are at the end of this string or they don't, they lose their job. But the one guy became an alcohol. Now I got a, I got a higher lawyer. I got to get him thrown out. I got to be vetted. It was a pain in the ass. So I really didn't enjoy being a landlord. However, I'm not opposed to buying real estate as an investment. I bought the house across street right there for here because I liked it. You know, I thought it would be nice to have be able to give it to my kids. It thought it was a good investment. The real estate here in Florida is crazy. I could almost, you know, double, maybe double my money. I don't even know. But I don't even, I don't want to sell it though, you know. So, and it'll never be this high again. It'll probably go back down. So, you know, you have to say, why are you buying the property? You buying it as an investment or to sell or to rent or you buying it because it's something down the road you want to have, you know, or as, because I think real estate is better than money in the bag. You know, so you can get something low at a good deal and you have the money in the bag and you can buy cash. I think that's, I think it's a great investment because it flanned and houses don't, you know, don't lose value if you get them in a good rate. Now, if you're buying high, now you can lose money. You know, so like now, if you go buy a house in Florida, you're going to pay a lot more than it's worth probably. And they might drop down, you know, considerably over the next two years. But everyone wants to move out in New York and they want to buy a house in Florida now. So the real estate's super high. So this is, but there will be a drop and that during that drop, if you have money and you want to invest, that's a good deal. I tell people all the time, if you're renting your crazy, you go buy a duplex, like you said, down here in Florida, you live in one side of it, you rent the other side out, the other side pays your mortgage and all your expenses you live for free. I mean, that's the first house you buy. You don't go buy a small house that you have to lay out money for and have a mortgage on because now you're, I mean, it's better than paying rent. They'll get me wrong. But if you can get someone else paying your mortgage and rent, even if it costs you a little bit more upfront, you'll make out like a bandit. And then I know people like you said, well, buy multiple units. So take every dime they have or they'll just, they'll get mortgages, they'll get, you know, they'll put down the minimum. But then you're banking on the fact that these people are going to pay you rent every month. Now, renting is good now because people want to rent. But that doesn't mean they're going to pay you because if they lose their job or COVID hits, people just don't care. They're just not going to pay. They're not going to, they're not going to lose a day as a night as sleep over it. But you will when you have to still pay your mortgage. So there's benefits and there's negatives, you know, it depends on, you know, if you like to gamble. But like I said, if you have money in the bank, I know guys like to got settlements for court cases or their job gave them something and they went, they actually go by a house, by a house, by a house, by a house. And they went and they, you know, over five years spent the money, I'm nothing and I have nothing to show for it. If they would have bought the house, lived in half of it and rented half of it, they would have something to show for their money, you know. Yep. Yeah. What I've been doing is, um, I'm experimenting with the now. So I won't know for seven years. But I'm one of those people that got grant card on YouTube. So I gave him money. So we'll see in seven or eight years if I get a lot of money back. Oh, yeah, I have a couple of you I didn't that. I know a couple guys that did that. I have a snake reader in friends with it. He's big until getting involved with these, these guys that have these funds with a, they buy developments and these, but complexes exactly. Yeah. He thinks it's a great deal. But you know what, I, I, I, I got a very bad taste. I invested in a gym a number of years ago about 10 years ago, 15 years ago. And I was making a good, I was making a good amount of money. They were paying me every month and then they just stopped. So I said, I'm never investing with someone else. If I'm going to do what I'm going to do myself now because you know what, I'm smart enough now to do what I learned the hard way. I'm not giving anyone else my money because you know what, if they need my money, then maybe it's not such a good investment. Why wouldn't they just use their money? You know, to do it. So now I understand there's people that get other people's money and then invest it and they're making money. If you're money, but I get worried when when that comes about. Yeah, because I have a very similar approach where I tell myself where once I give someone money, I have to assume I might not ever get back. Yeah, that's what I've accepted that it's gone and if it comes back, I'm just going to be thankful. Yeah. But that's how it is because otherwise I wasn't at a point where I could buy a commercial building in Florida before COVID for $3 million. That was not going to be realistic. I didn't want to get into a situation like that. So final question is the close with today is, it's funny because we talked about it before we went on camera, but not specifically, you want to snake business for some people. Now, what's the hardest thing about owning a snake business for you? And I believe it's one thing, what's the hardest thing about it that people want it now? Well, number one, I don't have enough time to dedicate to it. I just hired someone to find a full-time worker and he's been really, really good. This guy, Pa, blowing. He's, uh, he's into snakes too and he was one of my customers and he lives local to me. So he's really been helping me up. But the thing about business, especially if you own more than one business, is you, you need help, okay? Because you don't want to create another job for yourself. You want to create a way to make money. Now, I, I, I pre-sakes, I love the snakes. I wouldn't do it if I didn't like it. I don't do anything. I don't like, okay? So, I really love it, but I, I escalated the size of my collection. People ask me how many snakes you got. And I've been telling about 350. He, this guy's probably counted my snakes. I have 650. Okay? So I underestimated my collection by 50%. And now I have babies hatching from my egg. So, you know, have you, another couple hundred. So, you know, you have to, you know, that, it is a lot of, you know, poop to clean and a lot of mouths to feed. And there's a monthly expense to that. And I don't, that's not an intimidate because I know I've been selling, I sell a lot of snakes. And I use my YouTube channel, my muscle serpets University YouTube channel to educate people like I do here in our muscle. And that's how I sell snakes because people, you know, feel comfortable buying for me. And I, and I, I'd like to believe that I have a good quality animals, um, and, and good, cool, new stuff. I'm always producing. And that's, that's the creative side of me. That's like the, instead of painting a picture, I'm painting a picture with animals. So, um, but the take home message here, the hardest thing to do in businesses, if you don't like the business, or you don't like what you're doing, you're creating a very, very, very big job for yourself that you're going to hate every single day. I like what I'm doing, or I would not breed animals. And so, that the easy part for me is the fact that I'm doing something that I really like. The hard part is that is managing all the different working parts between, luckily my wife runs the, the nutrition business and the arts muscle, all the books and stuff like that. She does all the orders and everything like that for daypalomber.com. But it's a team effort. You know, we, you know, I'm always moving myself around and then you want to make sure you have time for your kids. So, that's the hardest part. Finding the time to do what I need to do over there. Final question for you, because you just gave some great business advice for people. And I was thinking about this from a more personal one is I know you've talked about it over the years. I've heard you mentioned it in your late 20s, maybe late 20s, early 30s, you were married once. Yeah. Now, you're in a second chapter of your life. You have a family, you're married again. As someone that's, you know, judged us this now and kind of making it all come together, what kind of advice would you give to people as someone that did it once and then did things again? What have you learned in the context of relationship? Now that your 53 would say, hey, this is what I've learned is really the keys to making relationship work. Now that I have a lot more experience. The key is you attract who you are. You understand what I'm saying? Yes, I do. The reason why a lot of us are not in a, there are a few people meet their high school sweetheart and go through the whole life and die, you know, 90 years old, holding each other's hands. Okay? Because most people change as they as life progresses, they hit different stages in their life. And the person who they met when they were 22 that served them beautifully then, right? The relationship was amazing then because that, what, who you are then, no longer serves you when you get the 30 years old. And then the person you made a 30 years old, okay, which was heavily, right? It was perfect. Everything worked perfect. No longer serves you when you're 40 years old. Because now you have some people, some people never change. So, those people, so you can go through relationships and I've been through relationships and with people who I'm no longer in a relationship with, and then the same as they were, I changed you know. So, I, you know, no longer attracted that person. So, now I'm attracted something different, you know. So, I think that, you know, you shouldn't get so hung up necessarily on the fact that you made a mistake or that you didn't do anything right. You know, when I was bodybuilding, it was a selfish lifestyle. And I was dating people who were, you know, selfish too in a sense and, and it worked, right? I wasn't looking to have kids or anything like that. But when I started not competing anymore, and I wanted to move on to that next level of having a serious relationship with someone who I would, I'd even consider to be the mother of my children, you attracted a different person. That's when I attracted my wife. So, you know, that's just part of life. And I think we all go through saying, oh, I gotta find that person, oh my god, you know, I'm gonna go to this club this time, I'm gonna go to this now don't even worry about it. You will attract, you'll find them into supermarket or you'll find them in, you know, my first, my first wife, it's funny. I was very depressed, I was in medical school, it was my birthday, my sister's, I'm gonna take you out to a club to your birthday, I was dieting for competition, I'm like, I don't want to go out, I'm like, I'm just dieting, no, you're going out. Okay, we go to this club and my sister had been telling about this girl that she knew from the gym or something like that. And my sister says, insist on holding my wallet, because I have one of those big, fat Italian wallets, I always had them. And I had my rent money in there and I had no money at this point. And my sister lost my wallet. It goes in the bathroom and leaves my wallet on the sink or something like that. And they call me on the overhead speaker that they found my wallet. Oh, it's like, I don't want it, and they are describing it and it was mine. I knew it right away. I'm like, do you have my wallet? She's like, oh, so I go in there, of course, everything's in there except the money, which is my rent. And then, so I'm like, really mad at my sister now. And I'm hungry and I don't want to be there. And then all of a sudden this girl, you know, comes up, hey, what's up? She thinks my, my sister's my girlfriend. I guess I had seen her in the gym a couple times. I didn't know that was the same girl. My sister was talking about and turned out to me that, you know, my first XY foot ever barber. And we went up talking, she came here and I said, I got to get out of here. My sister lost my rent and I didn't just, I didn't even care. I could care less than make anyone on that particular day. You know, usually you're out looking, looking, look, I had that, like, I don't give her shit attitude. I just want to get out of here. You know, I'm hungry. I think it was the last thing. And that's how it happens, you know? And so, you know, you attract to your arm. It worked. I really, really, because I was with her for like, you know, eight or eight years, something that's so, but it was, but the point is that I think people try too hard and then they try to go back and analyze what did I do wrong. Well, you know, what you probably did nothing wrong. You know, you probably, that's who you work. You change who you are. You attract someone different. You know, final question for I keep saying it. But now I got to work in one more because I'm just fascinated to hear your answer. So, you have three kids now, so you're like a professional baby-making factory over there. Was going from two to three hard or was it just business as usual? Like, I've always heard ones like, wow, this is a change to you're like a crew. And then three, what's three like, is it any different? Three was hard at the end, because then I, you know, I really had to take a really, really active role because obviously my wife couldn't, you know, head on, three kids and she's with the baby and so I had a really, you know, be up, be available a lot more to watch the other two kids. And yeah, that's definitely the more you have the more level, the higher the level of responsibility. And you know, try taking three of those kids out, you know, with you. My wife and I weren't together. They would be my sons everywhere. You know, they're running around like lunatics. It, it, it absolutely is, but it's, it's good. I, to be honest with you, I really wouldn't, I know my wife wants more would say she would want more. I don't want anymore. I think three is great. And this is, after reason that I don't want more kids, it's just that I think when you get too many, it's like you start neglecting some of them. And I don't, I don't want to ever, I want them all to feel like they got my attention. Even though they're super jealous over, you know, if this one gets this and this one doesn't get that and I want to go with that and, you know, that kind of stuff. But it, it does get more complicated. I think three is, is ideal right now. And we have three bedrooms upstairs. So, I don't want to start doubling up, you know, kids and third bedrooms. Everyone 12 years old lives in the house across the street, plus some 50s, my wife's, I'm 53. I don't want to be 90 and be taking my kids the graduation, you know. Well, I recently heard like Clint Eastwood of course, Super Famous, his son's got Eastwood. I think he had him when he was like seven. Oh, I believe it. Yeah, I believe it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, some of these guys had some, some Michael Douglas didn't also have kids like, yeah, you're right. Yeah, Captain Zeta Jones. So there you go, you're like, you're like, you're like, the body building version of Clint Eastwood. Where we got him? By the way, he said, 20 Chris, Chris, the Cito had had, um, because young kid, you know, he's got two grown teenagers, but he's got two young ones too. So I'm like, he's got four in their all boys, you know. So because they were trying to go for the girl and having got the girl. You know, so. Yeah, well, that's good. Well, I think that's what we're going to close with here today, Dave. So thanks for as always making the time and educating the listener. So until next time, we're out.

Alright, we just got the sun splashed. This is the fall of the day 2021. We're going to be going with the kids. It's all the water rides and everything Logan you excited Logan's got his goggles on. There's my armus she's got her hat on. Alright you excited come here come over here turn around look around look at the camera You're going to have fun today you get your blue hair alright pretty cool is daddy looking pretty ripped on fall this day yeah grandma see that too We even got her out of the house we go yeah We got a tiger up and get her in the car but she can't alright Logan what's the first ride you want to go on The green one the green one you want to go on the big water slide you want to stone the small ones I don't know what's the green one so the big one Green one Shail you oh she'll get diaper we didn't see her so alright she'll get diaper change Alright we're going to go in hope that I'll be able to document some of this because I need you guys to live by Cariously through my follow you says I like to say we'll see you later tell her say hi to everyone Hi are you going to go on the water you are you going to go down the slides I don't know if you're going to change a clue what's going on the big one of the small one You want to go on the small one okay good job let's get let me see that blue hair that's pretty cool blue hair You want to go on the small one okay we'll start with some Logan what are you going to do big ones of small ones You just only want to green one okay Alright here we are sun splash The question is how daring is day pull up I'm going to do today to go in any of these water rides I know my style going everything pretty much That's a pretty big one I don't think I'm going to go that high we'll see Alright guys we're going in the water Logan you ready to go and have some fun Logan you ready? Where is he? There he is I'm going to bring Santa Are you ready? I'm going to go in the water Are you going to go in the water? Yes Are you going in the water? We got to get the best sun so they can go act like maniacs and I drown How would you please do that? Alright maybe I can film some of you guys Alright Are you my mom up on this big slide? Logan you went already right? You are fine There you are No that's that damn Grandma thought that was damn That damn It's dark in there You couldn't see Let's see what see when mama comes down Nope that's not mommy either I can't turn the camera if I know so they turn it off I'm going to miss them I got to play some like a really nice music here Sharpies Don't touch on Don't touch on They got a life card there with a fucker because otherwise you crash into the side of the pool See Nope that's not mommy either I'm fine Stop going on here I don't know You think are you checking out Logan? You might have checking out I think I'll have checking out I did this once The big slide It was really high up there I don't know if anyone could see that There it is Nope there's a little boy You can see how high up that goes It's completely pushed black dark Logan you can't see anything Nope that's that mama There's a lot of people coming down here Keep filming because I know the second I turn it off That's it Nope Not A lot of dare doubles And Logan you're not afraid to go in the really big one I guess I'm just screaming Nope It's a little boy in his father Let's see I think mom and I should be next Let's see Nope I thought that was that was it But mom and I are a little daughter I have a feeling my daughter is checking out She's like me she has like the big crazy heights I like the concept of doing it But I just I don't enjoy that much It's like some misguided stuff They got it gone I don't believe this woman she's not afraid That is really easy It's easier than a bite Yes, I'm a yellow Nope I'm not already Another brave little girl Did you see you can do it yourself, Logan? You do? Alright maybe you'll go up there but I'm alone Mama will take you up there you can end yourself It's a big walk up these steps Even though it takes a while to get up there You're walking forever I don't see already in my mom I haven't seen one I think it would be walking down the other side Not coming down yet Up there's a little boy like you're a dog Whoa, wipe out It's a lot of speed That wasn't our life that certainly wasn't Mama Did you think you could end that light side, Logan? Oh, here comes Mama Here they come I hear them There they are, are you wave? Are you wave? Here they come Here they come Here comes Logan Here comes Logan and grandma Woo Ari and Daddy Alright Alright, it's lunchtime now We're going to the Snackmortie some unhealthy food I have to say that I did conquer the water slide that I didn't think I was going to do I'm going to flip this around and show you Alright, you see that monster water slide in the back there As my son would say the green slide He talked me to take him down that thing Although my wife had already gone out with a few times I said if my son did do it I got to do it So I conquered my fear I went up there I did it, I didn't enjoy that much But it was Logan locked it right You love that water slide You want to go back on it So that's the idea we will probably wind up on that water slide again today But now I'm an expert in it So let's get some food Alright, Ari, what do you mean now You got your cheeseburger in prize Say a favorite I'm going to eat it I have chicken tenders I know I was going to go with it Chicken wrap but it doesn't look that good Alright, I got the chicken tenders They probably have six tons of grease in them Ari doesn't like the lettuce So Daddy's going to get the lettuce Mom has got cheeseburger fries Shea was sleeping Grandma's got a pretzel I should have got the pretzel that's actually got And Logan's got his cheeseburger fries You'd love to eat it, right? Look Say hi never remember Everyone's tired Everyone's tired, I think everyone needs nap time I don't need nap time I don't need nap time Okay Don't nap time Good job, Logan Pull it right to you Logan's Wow, he's a little ninja warrior Hold the rope, Logan Keep going Good job Come over here So let go, pull it close to you You can do it You can do it, you're strong Pull it close, get that middle Right, good job You're like a little ninja warrior Alright, pay attention Look what you're doing Get the other one, you got to get in the middle of the other one I'm going to be the worst coach Like when I saw him play sports Forget about it I'll be the guy that everyone's embarrassed of You got it, Logan In the middle, get yourself in the middle of that one Pull it in, pull it in You can do it Alright One more, you got it, look Pay attention, focus Get right in the middle of that one Pull it in You got it You got it I'm a real guy, you got it Hi five First time Hi five Alright, Logan man Alright, I'm about to go with my sign on a very fast water slide right now I will show you this water slide in second I'm going to turn around here This is the one right behind, that's very steep My wife Amanda will be filming it And hopefully I will be successful I'm not like these water slides I'm getting into my Zen light state right now And I am going to do the water slide Here we go How was it? Good Good Yes And the end of fathers They will throw really in the father's day This is back at my monster pond As you can see in my backyard You are in my many pond over here And as you can see I took a nice gash out of my head With the corridor To end fathers day at Sun Splash Can never end My father always said they ruined every holiday As kids I figured now that I'm a dolphin I'm getting older I'll start ruining a holiday I hope not Anyway Be careful when you open up big car doors They can hit you in the head and take a chunk out of it Hopefully all you fathers are having a great father's day out there Happy Father's Day 2021

I'm the Apo Lomba and I'm about to give you a little glimpse into my work. This is my life. It's another day in my life and we're here. In my kitchen, I'm preparing to take another trip up to Dr. Blouse. We have some more evaluations from the do and some more updates up there and much just to make you want to make my quick meals. I wish I would show you how I made it but I should put my rice into balls into a ceramic bowl. I don't use plastic anymore because I get the plastic goes into the food. Put my minute rice, brown minute rice into the here. I got my water, put it in the microwave, six minutes, comes out. I actually put a few frozen peas in there. Throw it on a plate, a little sea salt on it. I got my biggest discovery, pink salmon, wild salmon, bond bumblebee. This is round. You don't really get wild-coated. Here my dough is working the background. I put a packet in here, mix it in. Now what I do is I go over here, I let it. My favorite is a ruga. I don't know if you guys have tried a ruga but it's fantastic. It has a really good taste of the bed in the salad. I get it in the ruga like herb land. I have some other stuff for that. My dough is a ploss. I'll make a salad on top of the salmon and the rice. I'll get my microwave in a little. I'll speak to the nutrition. I'll add a little of that. Not too table spoons worth. Okay. A little more salt. I like salt, let's get some pepper. I got my alcoholized water. I've been going to add a very good cup. I got a little apple-brack sample side of it in here. Very good to keep your city level down. You're by the motion of toxins. Put it back. Tees water. We're not going to waste. You can be surprised. I'm ready to eat. I'm going to eat. We'll load up. Get it in the car. We're going to head up to the horses. Okay. We're back here at Dr. Mordakai Blows, office in White Plains, New York. Dr. Mordakai, the response we got from the last little installment we did here of my life was so positive and people wanted to just know more and more. Since you are the gynecromastiat expert, I want to get a slightly more difficult case. For a very difficult case for you to evaluate, Jeff really didn't have any gynecromastiat. So I said, let me bring you a more difficult case. Someone who had it done prior to the visiting you by another surgeon, maybe didn't get such a great job, has some left and needs you to evaluate what needs to be fixed. Because you said to me, I think what 50% of what you do is fixing other plastic surgeons problems. I'm 25%. I'm 25%. Reconence in gynecromastiat is unfortunately, it's very common. According to the literature, there is between 10% and 35%. And most of the recurrences on people that had just liposuction, but there is also significant amount of recurrences in people that had the liposuction and exasuction of the glent. Jeff magic is an interesting case because he didn't even have a plastic surgeon performed in surgery. He had a general practitioner. I had a few, but I must have done it by plastic surgeons. For the people out there watching this, you might be considering the surgery. You don't really want to have a general surgeon do this surgery because it's really it's really requires an expert touch of the surgery. Yeah, I would say in general it's befellable that the bald cellified plastic surgeon is going to do it. And a plastic surgeon of course, it is experienced with gynecromastiat. Because that's the most important aspect, gynecromastiat experience. Absolutely. It is the most important aspect. And I must say that there are only very few gynecromastiat cases in the US about 18,000 a year compared to breast augmentation that there are 500,000 a year. And therefore not every plastic surgeon has enough experience with gynecromastiat surgery. How many did you do per year? I do over 200, maybe even over 250 every year. And what is the typical plastic surgeon do? According to the American Society of Plastic Surgery, they are like 6 or 7,000 bald cellified plastic surgeon. And if you calculate, if 18,000 are done a year and let's say 6 means a typical plastic surgeon does 3 gynecromastiat cases a year. But if you want to do more than a week? Yeah, but probably I do sometime more than this. Today did 3 cases. 3 cases today? Yes, so you've already exceeded the most of the gynecromastiat cases in all the other services. I would say a plastic surgeon that does more than 50 years has better experience. But unfortunately the arm to many plastic surgeon to do more than 50 years. Obviously we've talked about this before. Removing the entire gland is very important, especially in a body book. Absolutely. It's very, sometime it's very deceiving, sometimes especially in bodybuilders. Sometimes when you see a person you see, oh, he has a small gland and then once you go inside. And once I examine him, I know that the gland amount of glandulity is a lot more than we do. Then the person thinks he has. And that's a matter of experience. Once you do a lot of cases, it's easier for me to evaluate it. But usually with the bodybuilders, I do exercise of the glandulity show means the breast tissue, the gynecromastiat tissue. And rarely there is a need to do liposuction. However, I do very, very few of them. It's mostly gland. And once the gland is removed completely, the important point is that it doesn't come back because there's no tissue. If you leave a little in there, it can grow back up. Okay, that's right. You have to leave a little behind the aruyola. You have to leave it between 2 and 5% of the gland behind the aruyola and all of some support. But you have to be careful to excise between 95 and 98%. It's very large enough. And with bodybuilders also denyshing about bodybuilders that they amount of fat, the percentage of fat of skin fat is very, very low. So you really don't have to do liposuction. And the chance to have depression in bodybuilders is extremely small. Yeah, do surgeons make mistakes, everybody may be cutting some of the muscle out or maybe not evenly removing the gland. Is that a problem? So you know Jeff, and I'm sure he's going to tell you this in a few minutes when he shows you is doing examination. He has a sliding orientation on the side that he did get done. Yeah, I mean, it's usually it's not the muscle because the muscle is deep. The muscle, it happens sometime, but that's well. Usually it's unevenly, you cut part of the gland, you live another part and you don't take it in as one unit. I usually try to take the gland as large as it is in one unit. Very important point. So you take the whole gland and one shot, you're not slipping pieces all day. That's it, in one shot. What's the advantage of that? What's the disadvantage of that? The advantage of that, after you don't live any glands behind and you have less bleeding, you don't have to choose and pick what to take, what not to take, whatever you see, I mean you just have to exercise in one unit. I've never seen it because you get out of a tiny hole this big, you get this monstic length you work it out somehow. That's a little bit. You've fallen with tweezers and teasing it. I would say the incision would be about one inch, in the lower cases, more than one inch. And the gland sometime, it might be 10 inches in lengths and 5, 6, 7 inches in. So it's a good thing in your brain. So it's a good thing in your brain. So it's a good thing in your brain. So it's a good thing in your brain. That's a good thing in your brain. But the skin is also elastic. So you can remove it and you can fold the gland there. So that's how you can remove the very large gland with a very, very small incision. Well let's get, yeah. I also want to say something. The choice of incision is very important. Also the way you do it, I mean it's important, the way you do it in the chest and the location of the incision is important and most of the plastic surgeon we do it, sub-o-o-loss, mean under the RIO-la. And then the nipple and it's going to be about one to one in the air pinch. So unfortunately I see a thing about 800 to 1000 new patients a year with Gana Kamaisa and some of them already had surgery and you see incision in many places. Including the axi-lare, I mean under the R-Pate which is not a good area to it. Because there is even a small incision that may be a half an inch or less is very noticeable. Right. Unlike the incision under the nipple that it's a very good area as far as healing. I have a small area and I have no scar when you did it. I mean people can take a look. There's nothing you can't tell. There's absolutely no scar. And the countless other people who friends of mine that you've done have no scar. So obviously you have the right touch and that's important because you know what? I've seen guys with a scar extends past the area. And it's horrible that it's a nightmare. I mean you got that you got that for life. There's nothing you can do. Oh, you're absolutely. You cannot do it by the scar. Always you're going to have a scar. So basically when I do the surgery, obviously when you do you have a scar but the scar it's in because pick was it's not prominent and it's hard to see it. And I must say the action I get from people is that all like my family or my no girlfriend they don't even know I did it. So I would say 99% of the time if you do this if you do the incision in the right place and the right way. It's very very low key I would say it's not prominent right. But let's take a look at Jeff and see what's going on because he's very unhappy. I wanted him to come up with you to see him and to see what you can do because you know when people are unhappy about the way their chest looks it messes up their mental state. And we don't want Jeff to be any more messed up mentally that he might know anything. So let's bring him in here and take a look and I want you to evaluate what's going on. Oh absolutely. I'm good to do it. Dr. Gua. Yeah you can come in. Jeff for your own. I'd start to run. I'll still make you. Okay. You can see it actually. Oh okay. Okay Jeff, let me ask you first a few questions and then you can tell me. And I understand from my secretary that you already had the surgery. How many years ago? Roughly I say 10 or it was probably less probably about seven. Okay that's okay. So you had it quite a few years ago and you had just only like the early that time. You don't understand one side. Yes. So we'd side you had. Left side. Okay. And so what happened after the surgery? Well I had to lay off for a month and then I noticed you know, I took a while. The nipple looked in the weird and then there was an indentation that stayed minor. But it wasn't done by a plastic surgeon or something. I think he did a pretty good job. Took about a month and a half to heal and then I started training again. And that was it you know. I had to. No no but what happened with the other side now? The other side didn't. The reason I didn't get both sides done is because the other side had not developed for whatever. Yeah but what happened since then? Well you know what? It's grown. And it bothers me. You know, the key to the beach is something you know sometimes if it's warm. It tends to kind of like inflate and sense of show more. It's all throughout tall over on that side or whatever. And I don't like the way it looks if I wear tight shirts. Sometimes the side looks a little bigger and I just want to get it taken care of. Can you feel a mess though? Yeah I play with it all the time. I mean not in a funny way. I understand. I understand. You know, just know that it is still. You're teaching me. I wanted to take a knife and cut it out. I mean to be honest. Quite honest. I understand this feeling you know. But you know it's there because you fail to eat. And you can see it. You can't see it. Absolutely. It's noticeable. Other people can see it. You can see it. No. It's not too. Your imagination. It just grew up since then. The master had also some gynecromascia when you did the left side. But probably it was smaller and with the time it became larger. Let me ask you in general are you in good health? As far as I know. Yes. You have any medical problems or any allergies? Well medical body wise or mentally. No no. I'm talking with. Are you talking about physically? Well yeah. Medical problems don't have. And they don't you smoke. Like cigarettes to me or like a cigar. So if I go out and have a couple drinks. Like that's like. But you don't drink excessively. Not really socially. Absolutely. Okay. You have any allergies to medications? No no. I'm very fortunate that way. Yeah. When do you think the first time if you go to you a child do do I doubt it? When did it start? Well I don't know if I should be telling you this but I guess I will. It started later on in life. Did you have it when you were a little like 12 o'clock in the morning? I didn't get any antibiotics towards. I don't know if I really should be telling you this but I am. And let me run after a couple years it started to develop. And that's the reason I don't think it was a genetic thing. I don't think I would have been. Okay. So then you started and then one side it was done and you not so happy with the result. But in then the other side started a few years later. It means like a few years ago you started to have gone to come to my side the other side. Yes. After we're going to examine you and you know see exactly what you're talking about. Yeah. You can see that it's really it's unequal it's not symmetric. Here you can feel a mess of dynamical mastatation between your two fingers. Here you already had surgery you have some indentation. And we see the scar was done in the right place but you still live indentations. So you was taken as seen partially not completely. So therefore if you don't take the entire gynecromaster is one mass you take on the partially. I mean it might happen because probably it was taken piece by piece. So here they took a larger piece in the middle they took less here and less here. And it looks like some of the gynecromaster still there. So you can see that's a really demonstration a good demonstration of a person that said surgery and I don't know why it was unilaterally that time because if you're even both. You're both who's that one pretty close. No, no. If you have both sides you shouldn't do one side enough that the other side you should do them really in the same. Or the time. The reason I didn't is this one didn't have it at the time. Okay. But anyway now you have to have it. You must have had it. I know you still can see it. You can see the nipple here. Yeah. And if I go this way. Yeah. You see how it's flat. Yeah. That's okay. Now I feel like also it's up in here because it's not the chest. It's at least flatter here. And I remember before it laid flatter on this side. No, this is not a kind of commercial you can feel it's about this area. Okay. This is no, some muscle may be a little fat and some some scant. No, you see. I can see it's a little bit of a. If I let that go is if I grow my chest a little that expand. No, I mean this is with the age people just get it. I mean that's not my chest. This whole out a little. If your baby chest is going to be less than the other. Everybody has some of this. Have a drumming somebody fat with that help. I don't know if it's going to help a lot. It's not really trying to stay. Who can solve it can't get rid of that. That's good. Okay. We're going to do it.

On the Apple Unboxing, I'm about to give you a little glimpse into my work. This is my life. I just got done examining Jeff and what I saw that he had a little incision in the left of the press that were the Gannamcomascia, the left was going to come as I was moving for about 10 years ago. And there's some indentation towards the middle side of the chest. But only the left side. The right side you can see and feel the Gannamcomascia tissue, which is the glangelot tissue. It's very defined. And I say it's about four or five inches in diameter. And it's mainly the bodies under the aurora, and the Ebola complex. And you can feel the head of the Gannamcomascia and the tail of the Gannamcomascia. So I think that the patient now is going to need, if you want it corrected, you're going to need surgery in the right side. And the surgery will include mainly, excision of the Gannamcomascia tissue or the glangelot tissue, and some revision of the left chest. In order to try to correct or at least to try to make the indentation less noticeable. Let me tell you a little bit about the surgery. And if you have any questions, you can ask anytime. So basically, you need the ZZV side and you need the excision of the Gannamcomascia tissue. I don't, in your case, if you need some liposuction, it's going to be minor, but it's mainly the excision of the glangelot tissue that you have. And as I say, revision of the left side. Usually the surgery is going to take about one hour. And it can be done either with local anesthesia or with IV sedation, which is like general anesthesia. It's similar to general anesthesia. But this will be your choice and we're going to talk later on about this. The incision you're going to have from the surgery is going to be under the nephanol, under the reoline. It's going to be about one inch long. And as I said previously, usually the incision is not conspicuous. And most of the people wouldn't know that you have incision. Also, once we do the surgery, so far on the last 25 year, I had no accounts of the Gannamcomascia. I have one question for you. You mentioned that there may be liposuction involved. Now, would that be if it has somehow the fat has crawled up in the chest that you see when you're going to? No, once I open it, if I see this some fat there and I think that it's going to add to the results of the surgery. Maybe to add to the results and I think the results better. Then I might do some minor liposuction, but there's better chance that we're not going to do any liposuction. And now as far as the surgery, the regular steps that I tell people to do is to stop any supplements and not to take any aspirin or odd wheel. How far, how many did you have? I would say about three weeks before surgery, is that local? If I want to do local, generally, it really doesn't matter. Just stop taking, because I take some pain medication for my back per cassettes. I can't take medication if you need it. Don't take it until it's done. You can do it up until the surgery. Don't take it. Don't take it until the surgery. But don't take any supplements like fish or lomengas. What about medication for depression? You can take any medication except I'll have the list of the medication. You're taking an hotel, but in general, I'm excited. You don't have to stop the medication. Or depression. You can take the medication. Now, basically, once you decide, once you know all the fact that you decide that you won surgery, you can book it with my secretary at $1 million. It really was a pleasure talking to you. Yes, you too. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. I appreciate a lot. Thank you. All right, Jeff, you just got done with your consultation with Dr. Blau. I brought multiple people here before. You kind of like were a slightly different case because you had one side done. You had a little bit of an indentation. You never had the other side done. You feel comfortable after hearing Dr. Blau talk about the surgery and seeing his cases. That's a therapy. Absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, I had it done, like I said, you know, by general practitioner. This guy is, you know, a genius with this. Talk to our audience here a little bit because this is important. And I know how I felt when I had it. How obsessed do you get with this thing when you know it's there and you're afraid to take a shirt off to the beach. And you worry about if you wear a T shirt if it looks like you have a woman's breast damage. Talk about the psychological ramifications of that. Yeah. To be honest with you, David, you know, the first thing that irritates me the most out of this whole thing is that I wanted to cut the damn thing out to be honest. You actually wanted to take a knife and cut it out of your own chest? Absolutely. That's how it feels. You know, it's like if you have your woman and your fat, your you go in the mirror and you're crunch it up and you want to just take a scissor and talk to women and I would myself, I had it. And cut the damn thing off and so with the freaking, you know, That probably the best decision to take. I have a big scar. So it's really bothered you for looking. I know because you've called me on the phone numerous times to talk about this for a year and probably if I didn't cut you off, you would talk about it for hours. And I understand I could relate to what you said to me. You said that freaked me out. I was like, he knows exactly what I'm going through. He said, and I bet you play with it every night. I wasn't playing with it every night. It was playing with it every morning, every afternoon and every evening and in my sleep. You become obsessed with the like nodule or lump or whatever and you can't sleep just rolling with rolling it and like you just don't want it there. And then if you look in the three mirrors that show you like all angles or if you get video tape to whatever and if like I said, when my nipples are hard, you can't really see it. So it's okay, but if it's I'm at the beach or in some place warm. Sometimes they're we're sure, you know, kind of like this and if it's tight enough, I mean, you can see it. I could see it. Yeah. And that can be self conscious. Like I wanted to like put like a strap on or like a band-aid or some, do you feel like when this is third and then you're going to feel like it was a relief. My self-steam is going to definitely be better. Just how I feel about myself. I'm very, you know, we're all vain because we're in trouble. When you work out, you want to look good and it's really, and when I was when I met the beach, I find myself going to get hot when it's cold. I'm a chilly. It's okay because it retracts, but when it's hot, I find myself holding a towel over the right side of my chest. It's ridiculous. So that's, you know, it makes yourself conscious and this would be a really nice. Have you ever had surgery before? Well, I had, I'm going to start from that. I find, yeah, I had actually my chin done. I had from doing an about steroids back in the day. I had developed fat from doing a deep-o or whatever. And I had this removed it, created a double chin on the shoulders. So it's a few times less to surgery yourself before. For people out there who might not have had it, what's the greatest fear you have going into the surgery? Well, I mean, I guess anybody would be thinking, you know, am I going to die? Or am I going to be disfigured? I think that's the own. Well, I make sure to do research. Right. And that's my point. When you see Dr. Blyas before and after you've got lunges to die. Doesn't that make you feel good inside it, like you feel comfortable? Well, I mean, I just felt, yeah, good and you have faith that you don't worry. I mean, the guys on thousands of surgeries on this, you know, countless. So I have no, no, you know, has I'm not going to say none. There's always something in the back of the mind. But for the most part, I don't. You get a little nervous and then that's about it. We're going to keep an eye on Jeff after a surgery. We're going to interview him again and we're going to see some after pictures. And we're going to see what Dr. Blyas does to revise this and improve on his look. And hopefully you're self-esteem will be better. And Jeff, thanks for always coming on. Thanks. If anyone wants to catch Jeff's, what, what do you call yourself? Well, I'm a dating coach and a traction coach. I help men flirt efficiently with exceptionally attractive women. But any women in general and Jeff magic and you can see me on the arts. Just Google in arts video, Jeff magic dating. You're on the happy muscle TV show. You're on the whole episode. You can watch him in action. Well, you can catch me. Can I throw a plug in the show? Sure. Go ahead. My phone number is 631-258-8595. Or you can go to my website, which is learndatingmagic.com. And I take men out, moles, coffee shops, clubs, bars, beaches, and teach them how to approach women anytime. Anywhere. Can you get a teach peat the end? Peat the video guy. I had to pick up a girl right after we get out of here. I absolutely agree. All right, you want. Let's get moving. You are. Yeah. I'm a bit of a full-busting wise ass, so keep me as a love mate or hate me. You know the type. So, yeah, your head might be slightly bigger than hers. But other than that, other than that, you're like duplicates. You're 22. Thank you. 27, really? Yeah, I'm not going to give her a compliment. You're terrible. The terrible theory. I don't live here. I live on, well, do you know what Huntington is on the one? I don't know where that is. Do you go there? Sure. Now, how are you related to these ladies? My girl. The girls, to give birth. It's a baby magic that turned into growing up rats. Okay, let's go. Who are you under there? Who are you? There you are. Oh, okay, look at those brown eyes. The worst I've ever seen. Yeah. So, yeah, you gave birth to two very terribly wonderful girls. No, I'm just teasing you. Yeah, no, it's really weird. It's like a group of scientists like Clonju. And basically the reason I can mow her is because I'm ballsy. And I'm a musician, so I do magic shows. And you look like her. It's weird if you ever run into somebody like that. I was an acting class. The first thing I said to her was, are you, you know, butt head. And she didn't like it. Yeah, I didn't. And then she saw how I interact with everybody else. And she got used to it. And then we became friends. And then we wanted to be each other. But it didn't work out. So, it's pretty much it. So, I've been twinning to help more you. Yeah. It's for me. Well, she changed her name. It was John. Well, originally was Jennifer. And she changed it to John. I don't know. Jennifer. It was Jennifer. It was Jennifer. It was Jennifer. So, you guys are going in here to eat or what are you doing? Yeah. We're in the 13th. That's right. Do you before go be honest? Do you guys like magic? I'm going to guess something. I'm going to guess something. I'm going to guess something. Ready? Watch. I want all three of you. This will tell me if you're really related or not. I'm going to guess from one to ten, you're going to keep the number in your head. The first number that comes in your head, you ready? You got it? What's the number? No, not that loud. Number between one and ten. Keep it to yourself and when I'm ready, I want you to say it. Okay. I'm going to tell you what it is. And you tell me from right. That's an amendment. Very tired. Okay. You got your number in your head. Between one and ten, you picked it. You got yours. You got yours. I guess two. I guarantee you. I'm going to guess at least two. Two of you. You have. Don't change it on me. If you guessed one and then guessed the other, you'll throw me off. Two of you, at least two of you picked seven. And maybe one of you picked eight. Nope. I don't mind being wrong. It's kind of fun being full. What was it? Do. What? You guys aren't related. I'll show you one more checker. It's cute. Mom give me your hands. Okay, then I'll sweaty right. I just use the napkins. We got sushi. That's okay. I'm just eating it. Okay, this is a fun trick. Okay. Come over here. Spend a circle. Good. I just made myself. I made you disappear. I'm over here now. You're over there. I saw you spot. Isn't that cool trick? It's lame. It's lame, is it? It's lame, is it? So do you guys have boyfriend? Yes. How long? Here. I have a child. How old are you? You got a child. Are you another one that you got good genetics and he's grown? How old are you? All right. I don't know how old she's in a my going there. How old are you? I'm 39. How old are you? And the old you kid. Oh, I do magic shows. Kids. Oh, yeah. Well, that's where I get to. I can just walk up any. Do people here like walk up and just start talking? They don't. No, no. There are a lot of people with sticks up there, but in this town. The girls are bitchy. Like clubs and stuff. Do guys like try to like, yo, uh, watch them over. I'm going to try to have, you know, that stuff, uh, the fake face and stuff. Yeah. There's no like cool down there, of course. Not really. No. No. They're blind. Everywhere. They're kind of, if you want to roll with a person, off of them. It's normal hanging on. They need people. Well, that's a good one. Well, anyway, all right, there's no room here for me. I lied. She's not my girlfriend. It was a bunch of bullshit. You probably know it, too. And, uh, since you have a boyfriend, I'm not going to try to get to know you otherwise would have popped your off to the side right here. Mom would have supervised from the back. Make sure you're okay. And then you and I would have went on a date. But that's not going to happen. Hey, nice meeting you, Mom. Thanks, Mom. I'm Italian. What are you? What's up? Are you? Yes. You're going to die. You're going to die. You're going to die. It's written on a benzina. No. You don't want to know either. I did that's one thing I know. It means, uh, can I have free knowledge of this? I swear to God. Hi, bye, bye, bye, bye. Hi, bye. All right, I'll see you. So. Hey, guys. I got a quick question for you. I come in peace. First off, there's three of you here. One guy. Three guys. Yeah. Good thing. Two girls. Now, this, I don't want to be rude. Is this your girlfriend? Yeah. Just friends, you're all friends? Yeah. I'm Jeff. Nice to meet you. Mom. I'm Jeff. You have a twin, a duplicate. No. No, I don't mean to like that. Take a group of scientists. And then I have to go, yeah, because my friend's a waiting for me. Uh, very, very quickly. Uh, shoes Irish and a time. I called her a butt head when it first met her. It's a mowai dish. And basically, we didn't like each other. And then eventually we became friends. And I just want to do that. That's pretty much it. It's very random. Yeah. But now, do you have a boyfriend and just curious? Yeah. You got him to be gonna say. Yeah, I got him. Pretty much a McGuy for God's sake. God damn right. But you know what? There's no time for that. Hi. Anyways, good luck. Nice to meet you. Take care. Bye bye. Take care. Another day is coming, God. We saw a great trip with Dr. Blau, Gary informative. For all you guys out there who considering having kind of come as the surgery done or have issues, you are nervous about maybe you weren't sure about. Hopefully this will lead some of your fears. And you'll realize that it's not a very big deal to get this operation. A lot of guys have it done. And I think it'll clear your mind and really show you that you know, you have the ability to get over this thing that's bothering you. And I had it so I know a lot about that. We also got another little chance to go one through the streets with magic Jeff and see what Jeff magic is. He likes to be called and see his some of his techniques on the street. Some of them work, some of them don't. But the guys got a set of balls and he got a lot of afraid to go up to anyone and talk to them. And as you'll see, as we take this final segment out, he almost got his ass kicked. Forget a little too ballsy. And I'll leave you guys with that little last gem of a day from or gem of a moment from Jeff magic. I know what you're doing David. Prix, show me me. I'm taking a leak. What are you doing out of there? I'm playing paddock cake. Guys filming me, spanking my chicken over here. Now I'm taking a whiz. Just doing a caveman thing. Oh my god. Why don't you go piss out somebody else's window, man? Well, you know, we've all pissed in other people's places. That guy just spit on me. I just had a guy say why don't you piss on somebody else's window. You just spit on me if he comes out here, I'm gonna have to check out.

Loskienas hay para me gusta Ihrer

Tennessee Williams, what's up? Hell is yourself, and the only redemption is when a person puts himself aside to feel deeply for another person. They tuned for a peak from today in the life of Melchance, a true modern day and a year if you're ever was born. Welcome to my Rax muscle, welcome into the home that I grew up in on my life. This is my girlfriend Melissa right here, doing a little cooking for everybody, we're cooking some eggs, not all whites though, and some bacon because no one's diet in here today. So this is purely obses and mass food. Come out, how many eggs do you typically need to breakfast? 12. I do eight whites and four yolks. But today, since we have the crew here, I think we're going to do about 30, it looks like we're just going to throw in a pan, throw some cheese in there. I know we've got to get air in some carbs for the workout today, so... I like your white thing. My separator, you know, I know a lot of people use the eggs separators, but it takes too long for me and I don't have the patience to do all that. Sometimes I'm just doing it this way. In bacon, and we usually bacon but since we have all the guests in the house today, we're going to do an old-fashioned meal. So this is the house that I grew up in as a child, my mother and father's house. I moved out when I was about 21 years old, and I moved back in here in 2008. My father passed away. He was a very bad diabetic. He passed away from her complications. This was the house that he built. My mother and my mother, who you guys will see in a little bit, is 81, who just had a quadruple by pastor himself. She didn't want to stay here by herself, and I knew she didn't want to sell the house. So I decided to come back in here and take care of my mother, somebody that took care of me on my life. Everybody knows I was in prison. My mom and dad took care of me the whole time. I figured this was my time to come back here and take care of my mother. As we pass the church on the way in, as you guys will see my mom, she's very old school Catholic Italian. So that's the church that she goes to every morning, religiously. A 30 in the morning, you know, for 41 years that I've been alive. So we always make a joke that I live literally ten houses from the church. My father used to say, you can't even get ten houses before you start swearing and calling us a son of a bitch or something. So it was kind of the joke, you know, living so close to the church. Looks like super cooking so much, huh? Yeah, no, no, how are you going to actually get this thing to coalesce at some point? I don't know. There's 20 eggs in here and this is the most I've ever cooked at once. Do you even in jail, you never cooked for a long cruise, you guys? No, all the other old Italians that was there, job and if you know what I mean? They cooked, you know, so I always just was hanging out for the ride with them. There is a, there is an ethnic stereotype in the sense of the prison jobs that people had. There's more than that. Yeah, like I got in with all the old Italians. I was, I would work for an hour on Saturday night and an hour on Sunday night and we go around and we pick up, you know, cigarette ball before cigarette butts in the yard. But this last time I was away from 04 to the end of 07. There's no more smoking in prisons. So that was my first gig at we would go, we'd get a little hand bag, like a little glove. And we'd put about three cigarette butts in each one and we walk around and talk about all the nonsense. That was our jobs. Why everybody else, you know, you have to have a job and everybody else was in the kitchen and stuff. So, you know, I had a little perks when I was in there, which was pretty good. Um, I mean I grew up kind of like, you know, a little bit of a strip of families. You guys see my sisters, my mom, my dad, you know, hard workers, my mom, work and dad, work and all their life. Um, what the school, I got good grades in school, you know, I played football, baseball. And, you know, it was a nice neighborhood to grow up at nice house, you know, and, um, I was young, my mom, my sister used to dress me, right? So, uh, because my mom always works. So, you know, I go to school and I always realized that they dressed me like for a joke or something like that. So, nobody else was aware of what I was wearing, you know, and plus when I was younger, of course, I, with the name of Malvin, it was, you know, but so many kids had that name. So, it was a little rough like that, you know, again picked that a little bit. Hi, I'm Jackie Mell's sister and I'm Carol Mell's oldest sister. We just would like to tell you a little story about Mal when he was younger. One thing I can really remember is that as mother always dressed him in plaid pants. So, everybody loved to make fun of him. So, as nowadays, the bully and all that, well, that was poor Mal. Everybody teased him. But he was an honor student and he was, um, into school stuff, um, I'm trying to think. Sports and all that. But he had the same time he still was always teased by kids. See, he was born with a chest that used to be sunk in. And me as I am used to teasing about it. And of course, when he was swimming in the pool, we used to fill his chest up with water. So, I do used to teasing, I guess. You know, when I got into my teens, I just met some different people and got into the motorcycle lifestyle a little bit and decided I'd like that and I want to thousand my house an hour forward. But, by 14, 15 years old, he was working out and he was working out every day. It was one part of the body, the next part of the body. And my husband used to go with him. But he got so tired to take and his weights off the weight stuff. He couldn't do it himself anymore. It was just you, Abby. You know, I started training with the weights. Really when I was about 14, I seen some magazines. And I really liked it. But actually, when I got serious, I was 16 years old. And my daughter's mother lived next door to a guy who was a biker. And he was all tatted up and jacked up. 260 pounds trained all the time. Didn't drink, didn't smoke. And he was the next door neighbor. And, you know, I seen him. And I said, that's what I want to look like one day. Check you and I babysitting him when my mom and dad went to the bowling. You know, but I, since I was much older, you know, it was more hurt. And finally one time. He was very spoiled. Being a brat in her and I were watching him. And he wouldn't calm down. So I went upstairs. He was down here. And I went upstairs and I put ketchup on my arm. I went rain the front door bell. And then I just laid there. And he cried and screamed because he thought somebody had killed me. So I mean, we had that was the way that we had to get him to calm down. Otherwise, he wouldn't listen to us with anything with religion. I mean, I used to tell him the depth. You are the devil and used to just scream. I am not. Yes, he is very afraid of that. One other thing we could use to get him to calm down just tell him the devil's and you or something. And he would get off. Yeah, because everybody knows. I mean, even though I used to be in my brother, I was always very religious and believe in God. And you know, I was one of them guys. I do some bad things and prance on ants. And I am doing it again, God. And I was 15 because I went 16. And I got in a fight in the high school. And they were suspended me. And the principal had my mother in his office. And when they called me in, my mom was in there and she was crying because the principal was ripping her like, Well, if you knew how to raise your kid and just talk it a little crazy to her. So I jumped his desk and sacked him in the nose and broke his nose. And I took off Ronin because I knew the cops were coming and my mom was driving through and they were trying to find me. And I ran home and the cops were here. So, you know, they pressed, you know, sign a complaint, everything. I was young. I was going to sign a school because she said, I'm not taking you 30 minutes away to another district and you're going to run out the back door. I might leave the lot. So I'm going to sign it. It's a great. I laid in the pool for a week. I relaxed. I'm like, man, I got the life. I'm turning 16. I don't got to go to school. Low and behold, I didn't know they had a plan. My uncle owned a concrete company. And I, my mom said, go lace up your boots. You're going to work. So from the time I was 16 until the time I was 20, I poured concrete foundations, home-th forms. You know, I poured the driveway here that many years ago. I just really, from then them four years, I was running a crew by the time I was two years later. I was running a crew back then. I was making 20 bucks an hour. And that's how I had, you know, my eye rock and my vet and my motorcycle. It's how I started getting into the bikes and stuff like that. I started dating her mom when I was 15. And she was 19. And we kind of like grew up together a little bit. You know, I met her and she was young. I was young and then we had our daughter and very young age. And I was, you know, like I said, working construction day and day out, power them to concrete. And just raising my, you know, doing the family life, you know, doing that. And then once I got 19 and I got involved with the other things, then, you know, my life kind of took a different angle, which I always, you know, was trying to be my daughter's life. I always, you know, paid my ex-child support and tried to see my daughter when it was much as I can. But I mean, I traveled a very lot. I was always on the go and a plane on a motorcycle. I mean, I was around the country a lot. So it was, it was hard to be in her life constantly. Was, did you feel guilty about the fact that you couldn't? I mean, you were young guys. I was like, yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, then back then I really didn't because I had so much, you know, I had tunnel vision. I was really into what I was into. And that was my job, that was my life, you know. But once I sat back, you know, and sort of say, I got out of the forest and I could see the trees, then I seen, like, you know, who I was neglecting in my life and the things that mattered to me. Instead of, you know, the nonsense I was doing and getting locked up and, you know, FBI and the federal government being on me all the time, I just said, this is not exactly what I want. I met one of the health angles when I was younger. And I just, it was that guy I was just telling you guys about the jacked up guy. And I just thought he looked cool. I said, man, I know what I want to look like. He was, you know, muscular, huge, I should say back then, I'm tatted up. And I liked that whole aura of the motorcycle stuff, you know, the housing doesn't treat me. And, man, I just started going forward and hung out hanging out with them guys all the time. And before I knew I was right there, four years I was in a club before I became the president and back then. I mean, it's a vote. It's, you know what I mean? It's the whole room. It's a vote and who becomes it's a yearly thing. And, you know, the members vote. So, I mean, you know, you have to, you know, I was a little aggressive. I was young. I was aggressive. I was focused right on that. And that's what I devoted all my time to. So when he became president for us, for me, it didn't shock me. Do many people like them, they thought he was, you know, good representative for them. And he did a lot of fighting for him. I'm sure, but that's not what we knew him. Yeah, we did. When I first met Mal, you know, he was the leader of the Health and Social Heritage Caucus. But he didn't act like that around us. So I never really got to see that bad boy side of him. I always heard the stories read the articles. But he's always just been a big teddy bear with me. I probably shouldn't say that because it might embarrass him. He did his thing and we all go through it where we have to go through a bad phase in life and then we grow up. And, you know, he's a better person for it today. It made him who he is. Who, yeah, that was hard on them. You know, we're such a tight family. Both of my sisters live five minutes from parents. So it was very hard on them. You know, and bringing my mother to see me, you know, her only boy of the baby, of course, you know, it was hard. I mean, I broke my heart to see them leave the visit. And you would think that they were going behind the wall into the cell. And I was going free. So that was the hardest thing for me. And then, you know, sitting there, you know, for, you know, 30 something months and just seeing this, then coming every month through three hours, four hours. I was getting shipped around a lot to different prisons. And that's just what made me think. You know, I see my little, my daughter crying to me at the time. And, you know, when I came home, I told everybody, I said, I'm not going back. You know, I'm not doing all that nonsense and more. It's time that I start focusing on you guys. And, you know, I made a pack of my daughter that I never go back. Well, of course, I did later in, or four, when the government re-code me, but it was from something that I did through the 90s. So, you know, I never really did anything. You know, it was my past coming back to get me. When he went and, or, or, oh, five, I think. Yeah, I was really sad. Because I was supposed to meet him for breakfast. He never showed up. And then I came here and they told me, I think, right, I remember him in the morning. Was that, was that, was that hurt you inside? Because knowing that you're a daughter, you made that promise to you, to a daughter and keep it. Uh, yeah, I'm no. I mean, yeah, I mean, I did, she understood, because I didn't really break my promise, but she understood that, you know, I had to go pay from, you know, the past. And it kept coming back and haunting me. And they were just, were relentless with me about, you know, me not being associated with them guys anymore. That was the, you know, that was the plan that the government was like, enough for this guy. Oh, yes, it was. Yes, it was. Yes, it was. Our family sticks together and to lose him and him to tell us that family don't mean, excuse me, fucking nothing to me. It was a hard thing to handle. But we just couldn't let him go. I know. I was at the jail. I don't know how many times I brought his mother, his father. You know, everybody up there to see him and stuff and his daughter. Right. So, well, that was awful. That was really awful because when we walked in there, we had, I think we had Dad with us at that time. And just, you know, my dad, because he can, he was sick then, you know, and stuff like that. And they just hugged each other. Oh, my God, that was sick. They had us. Oh, yes. They prayed and prayed and they had prayer groups here. And prayed and prayed and prayed from now. And hoped to God that he would come home. Dad, like Carol said, was real sick and thought he would never get to see us. Son again. Right. He really was the golden child to them. So, to see him, they didn't believe he was into that. And to hear it all in the courtroom. Oh, yeah. That was, that was pretty. We never really knew what he was into to we went into the courtroom. I never took mom because I knocked. To the courts. At the end of the whole seven when I came home from prison, that's, you know, I said to myself, I'm never going back. You know, you always see your never, but God forbid there could be a situation you get into. Nobody knows what every day tonight's going to bring. But as far as me running around and being in a knucklehead and doing all that nonsense, I don't have nothing to do with anything no more. You know, the motorcycle stuff. You know, I run a nightclub. I don't even go out to other nightclub as I'm my night's off. I just, you know, really do my thing now. I think it's yes. Oh, I know he's here. He's taking care of my mom. Jackie, because there's, there's so close. They're taking care of my mom, but he's, you know, he's really doing. He's doing a good job. He's running a regime for his mother with all us girls. You know, when he went away and his dad became really sick, his biggest fear in life was not being able to see his father or his mother before they passed. I think that really opened his eyes the first time when he came out. And he realized, I got to change my life or I'm not going to see these people anymore. He quit the angels, obviously. But then when back to prison, and was lucky enough to get out in time before Papa passed. But I think, again, his parents really kind of changed him when he lifted them and saw them getting older. And, you know, just the fear of everything. I've changed the whole lot. How did he change from the second time as to the first time? I think he really realized that this was the end of it. He had to do something else with his life. One more time, and he wasn't getting out. Like I said before, family is very important to me all his dad. He was getting up on in years. I prayed every night that nothing would happen to his dad while he was in. And because I don't even know how they had to cut them in, if that would happen. But when he got out, way more positive outlook on life as far as the things he wanted to do. And the things he wanted to stay away from. He really took care of his mom and dad and excelled in what he's doing now, running clubs, making money legally. When he first came home, it was like, oh no, he's not gonna change. And then he had a couple girls after that, and it was like still, he was the ignorant. Yeah. He's like, yeah, I see him. As he was, he just didn't respect women and like we, we don't put up with that. So why don't you respect women seeing that he loved his mother and it's so much. Why didn't he just, I don't know. That's awful. I don't know if it's something he's seen with women and women hang all over him. It's kind of sad. One time I was back here and our summer fest and there was a girl talking to him and I came up to talk to my brother. And she just kept pushing me away. Finally I looked at her and said, can I talk to my brother and she said, well, I was talking first. And I said, it's my brother, I think you need to get that heck out of here. So she left, but it's always been like that. Everywhere he goes, people are on. I'm wanting to talk to him, wanting like he's somebody famous and I just, I don't understand it. But I'm glad to have him back the way he is. You know, people think Mell is a real badass, but he's very, very good to his friends, his family. He's got a heart of gold. Being that he was the leader of the Hell's Angels, totally different person. You would never put the two together. You should see him around with his grandbaby. It's unbelievable. He's the type of guy that would give you the shirt off his back if you needed it. Mell's a loyal family man. You can't find any better dead, better son, better friend, tallest friends. Not only to me, but tallest, close friend. He's solid to his daughter, forget about it. His mom and dad, but before his dad passed away a few years back, you know, he took care of his father, took care of his mother. You know, not mine, but just way of son takes care of his mom and dad. A very, very, very, very close family and very good family man. I mean, once you're thinking of Mell, you're like, oh man, this guy's not here, this guy's this, but people never saw that kind of, this side of him, the family side of him. You know, love his family, definitely got Mell out of the lifestyle he was in. If it wasn't for the solid relationship he would have, he would have probably still been a prison. Well, I put on 35 pounds in about two months, and that was just literally from eating food and training with weights again because that whole time that I was away, I had no weights. I had, you know, I couldn't do nothing book push ups and some sit ups, and you know, I was eating 1,800 calories a day, and you know, the feds really don't have weights anymore in the prisons, because they got this rule that when they break them, when you break them, they don't read them. So a lot of prisons don't have them no more. So that was a long break for me from training and eating. When you got out, you kick body building, that body building lifestyle that you started when you're so young, kind of kept you focused and maybe you can kept you out of that lifestyle. Oh, yeah, for real, for real, because you know, I was always an active guy. So you're looking for something to do. And I mean, the gym took up two, three hours of my day, five, six days a week. You know, what, what I wanted to train, I wanted to grow, I wanted to, you know, you know, get bigger again. So that took up a lot of my time where I didn't have all that time to go running around and hit the streets and think about any nonsense anymore. When you got out, did you go right to Chuck's gym and talk to him and say, hey, do you want to get back to the competing? I didn't say anything about the competing. I just went back and you know, took my partner back Chuck because he was training in the morning time. My switch, we switched the hours, we started training, they have to noon together and just sit in it hard. And you know, in that first, like I said, that first six of a month, I was back up to where I am right now. Where I hover about 280 and everybody was like, man, you should really think about doing a show. And I was like, ah, I don't know. I don't think I'm done with all that. And I ended up doing the Illinois, Illinois, and went in the show, yeah. Yeah. And what's your future goals in bodybuilding? Um, July. My next sites are for July for the Masters Nationals in Pittsburgh. And I'm going to start, you know, diet and training for that after I get back from the Arnold. So I want to see if, how I can fit in the master's days. Like I never thought, you know, back in the day running around the country and doing all the stuff I was into. I mean, I knew all the pro bodybuilders because I wasn't that lifestyle. Like, cogs us to them both lifestyles, you know, from ad counters from the corporate owners of golds. And to Jim Manion and Steve Weinberger, they knew me, you know, for who I was. And I got along with everybody. So I was always around, you know, the scene for other years. And I never really thought about turning pro or really getting up there on stage because I wanted to eat. You know, everything under the sun, what I wanted to eat. So to make it that far to see that I could do it for the Illinois and add an older age. I said, okay, let me see what I could do with the masters here. And that's what we decided on.

Health & Glory

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. The first is www.bbc.com for the hardest training athletes. Day Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. There was a story that we broke the other day on after hours about a body builder, the Keating competitor, IFBB Pro, who was kicked off an airplane in Dallas, because they said she was dressed inappropriately. We kind of covered the story, the body builder was talking about the athlete, the Denise Saffronar. She was asked to actually leave the plane, she had to be rebuked on the plane. We were trying to debate what was going on and what possibly happened. We didn't really know the story, so we contacted Denise and we asked her to come on the show. We got her here today. Thank you for joining us, Denise. Thank you so much for the interview. It's my pleasure. It's interesting, because I hate when these big corporations quote their policies, but the policies are never enforced uniformly. They kind of target people. I really believe, and you're going to tell me the story. I really believe that you were personally picked out because you're a good-looking girl. If you were ugly, no one would have said a word to you. Because people were probably looking at you and probably commenting about, and there's probably a cup one or two people that were uptight about it and they probably complained and these airlines are so afraid in today's society about upsetting anyone that that's why they did that. Tell us the exact story. Obviously the story was that you addressed it and probably they got you off the airplane. We have the picture. What happened? Give us the whole order of events. Okay. So I will tell you exactly how it's happened. I was flying from Los Angeles to Miami and there was a layover flight, but it was just a 15 minutes between two flights. I was already late and I was trying to catch my flight and I was maybe one of the last four or five person. And then I didn't. So you weren't even sitting at the terminal. You actually just ran from one plane to the other basically. Definitely. I couldn't even stay one like more than a few minutes. And when I was walking to scanning to tickets and then somebody yelled me from behind. Ma'am, hey, hey, I cannot take you to plane because you are literally naked. And you know, did you tell them I just got off an airplane? Did they know that that you would just on an airplane? The same plane of the same airline? Yeah, yeah, basically I already fly flew from LAX to the dollars. It's the same clock. You know, like it's him airline. Right. The same ball. And this has never happened before. And I was in shock. I thought she's joking because I have a lot of fans around like a big big job. And then she started to become in rude and like more like talking to her. And then she's like, no, I can't take. I can't let you go into plane because you are literally so offensive and you are naked. And she's like, she told you again again, like you are naked. I'm like, I normally wouldn't react too much. But I've had so weird. I'm not. I love to get it. And this is not true. And I was, I had my brown crop top as like in the picture. Yeah. And then I said, okay, the legs. What she upset because it was like a little sea throw on top. I mean, that's the only I can see. It's not even sea throw. I just, I was a weird and grub because I'm coming to Miami and it's the weather is so hot. And to be honest with you, you don't, it's hard to read and roll. Right. All right. But she, she could have asked you, did you put the she asked you that maybe just put a shirt on over and you had a shirt and I don't know your way. That's exactly. And then there was somebody over there and then I literally covered my butt. And then somebody gave me the pink shirt and then I beard. But it's like short sleeve. But basically, I covered your boobs. So to speak. boobs, abs, bad everybody. And then. And then she said, no, I cannot let you go into plane. I'm like, I covered my body with straw with this. And then she's like, no, you can't. And then I didn't know what to do. I was trying to check to kids. I couldn't find any. Right. Yeah. You're lucky. I wasn't there because I would have gone nuts on this woman. Because once you put the clothing, all right, I understand, right, maybe they if someone complained, they were offended, whatever. You put the clothing on now you're covered. You're dressed. What, what wasn't appropriate at this point for you to get on an airplane? So that's the point, like, because I asked her if I'm naked, what would be good for flight. And then she said, there's a rule. And then I said, please show me your rule. What is the rule? And the rule was saying, you can't go into plane with the barefoot or very offensive clutch. But if this club was offensive, then how could I get from Los Angeles to that point with the same thing in my life in plot? My theory is that Turkey called them up and said, get her. She left us. Oh, yeah, I'm going to do that. I can't. It sounds like you were in Turkey. And they were like, say, put a thing on your head, you know? Yeah, that's the thing. I have like, flush. Like, it's like, I have like, I'm like, I'm like, no. It's not happening. You last talking for me, yeah, I'll press the now you're being oppressed again. It's crazy. And then I was trying to get a new ticket and then I couldn't figure anything. And then I asked them. And then they said, we already got you ticket. So basically, this, when I was lending to Dalas, it was HPM. Right. And then they bought me new tickets for the 5 AM. So I needed to wait almost 10 hours, right? Oh, my God. And then at that point, there was no any star open, which they already knew this. Sure. And so basically, they accept me to next flight, right? Right. That's why they bought me ticket. Right. With the same clothes, with the same clothes. Exactly. Yeah. Because they knew there was no point in playing. And then I actually tried my best. I even asked for the airport to blanket or something. Anyway, so in the morning, everything was all right. I was going to fly. And then nobody stopped me because of my clothes. Right. Same clothes. And then I'd same clothes by the way. Exactly. And then I scan my ticket. I was going to play. And then they stopped me after I scan my ticket. And then I said, what happened again? And then they said, we can't take you to the plane. We had argue. And then I said, you guys bought me this. You guys already knew that I can't change my clothes. You provide me this. Yeah. And then we had argue. And they said, we can't take you to the plane. You do whatever you need to do. We are not even going to buy you any ticket. You're going to figure your own. Wow. I didn't know that. And then I was like, you know, I couldn't believe it. And I was like, so upset because I said, you guys are not even going to buy me ticket. Like, this is how it is because it's, you can't believe this, right? And this is that. I'm on Baffle. I can't even believe I'm hearing this story. I mean, this is not. This is so much discrimination against you that I mean, you should have a wire. And you should be still in their asses off at this point. Yeah. This is what's going to happen. And then I was waiting, right? And then I was on the phone. And I was trying to get myself ticket. And then I had argued with them because I said, the first supervisor didn't take me plane because of my clothes. And then you guys bought me another ticket. And then you guys didn't take me to plane again. Right. But why did I return? I was there, right? What is the point of it? And then you didn't even stop me because of my clothes. You saw on the screen, there was a knot from the first supervisor. Absolutely. That's what it was. If my clothes was offensive or bad for the families, you would stop me. That's what I told you. And then she's like, she couldn't answer it. I made a video. She couldn't answer. I was on the live stream on the Instagram. Oh, you were absolutely delighted. She missed that. And then. And then, while this happening, I was trying to get my staff in the near ticket. And then somebody, the manager come. And then, she said, OK, we're going to get you ticket. But you need to cover your buddy with this blanket. Can you imagine that? What? Like. You should have said, should I put something off my head, too? So you can't see my face. I mean, I. I put the old blanket on my lower body. I covered all my lower body. And another one is my bag. And then when I go to play, and I put it on me. And that's great. It was only condition that I can't fly to Miami. You know what? I hate to say this. And if you are an African American woman, they never ever would have done this. Because they would have been afraid that they would have had the lawsuits would have been common because of racial. Because of racist policies. But because you were a middle Eastern woman, now that, they're taking, and they think they can get away with it. This is this is BS. The fact that you were able, you had a jacket on. You were covered up after they asked you to do what you needed to do. That's really, I mean, I really feel for you. Because you know what? It's disgusting when I see stuff like this. This is the one thing that you did. I'm embarrassed almost to be an American when I see them doing stuff like that to people. Because they never would have done this. They did it purposely to you. And it's gross. I think it's a trauma, you know, because I run away from this. Oh, my life. Yeah. You know, even when I was competing in Turkey, it's like, I don't want to go so deep into this, but it is trauma. I want to hear that. Proma. Yeah, I want to hear what was it like? I mean, how did you first get involved with even competing in Turkey? You know, well, I was so skinny and I was so insecure because my family become separated and I was only child. And I started boxing and then I become so skinny. And then I saw one day the bikini Olympia champion picture. Uh-huh. And then the Ashley, you know, the Essee Cart Walser. Wow. And then I wanted to be like her. And then we compete in same stage eight years later. That's awesome. That is awesome. Yeah. That was what was in my view. I don't think any of our fans or myself has any idea. Like in Turkey, you know, what's the, what's the policy? You can't just walk, can you walk around the street like this? And there is no certain law. Right. And but there is really huge social prejudice on Roma. Because at last times, I almost become so scared on the walk in the street. Yeah. It's, there is not not like, if you go there is a man, you don't, you're not going to feel anything. Right. But when you're a woman and try to leave over there, it's, it's really frustrating for me. Because at last time, I couldn't even go to World Championship. Wow. Because, and I, I keep thought from the gyms because I wear gym sharp. Right. And it's, it's a lot of things. And I can't, I don't even want to remember, you know, it's, it's a trauma. I was trying to get over it. And this happened here. I'm like, God must be testing me, you know. Yeah. No, he is. He is. But you know, you're very strong. You know what, the, the, the things that you've overcome. Because people cannot even begin to understand, you know, I went to, I went to Dubai, which is a very liberal, you know, you know, middle Eastern country back in the 90s. And I went with the, with the bodybuilder by name, a war bass who was, similarly, a very pretty girl looked like you a little bit too. And may she rest in peace, she's not with us anymore. But she was there. And we went to the gym. It was her and it was all these male bodybuilders, Milo Sarsav, myself. They took us to the gym and they wouldn't let her work out. They said, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And this is Dubai. And that's, and they're pretty liberal there. They would not let her in the gym. She could not train. And she's like, what are you talking about? And that, that's when it hit me. Because like you said, I'm a man. So I was treated with like as royalty there because I was this big bodybuilder guy. And here she is, she was a pro bodybuilder. I wasn't even a pro. And she was being treated like a piece of trash almost there. And so I completely can relate to what you're going through. And I don't think anyone else understands. And I'm assuming that's why you left Turkey, correct? Definitely this. Let me tell you this. I, the all I wanted to do in home my update life. I just being in the gym and train hard as much as I can and compete. It was my only passion. And even though I was representing Turkey, and I couldn't get any support. I could, I had to do everything by myself. But put everything aside, I just wanted to be atleast. You know, and I could it like I was sometimes I was training. And then I kicked out from the gym and then because they told me like, here is not here is not a national atleast camp or something. I represent your, your country, right? And I'm your best athlete in this. There are many things like this and I can't, I can't, I mean, I don't, it's really hard. Yeah, Denise, believe me, I'd rather you represent us. We would be proud to have someone like you who looks like you with a great physique and beautiful face, representing the United States. There are more ons for losing you, believe me. And you know, and you're road to getting your pro car here was not easy either because, you know, originally, you know, in Europe, you had to compete with this, the other organization when the, when the I-VV split. And you had to come back here and then you got your pro car at the nationals this past year, which is, I mean, and that just tells you how good you are and how, you know, single minded you are at being able to, you know, achieve your goals. What was it like to win the nationals and to get your pro car in the United States? It was amazing because before this, you know, all my competitions, I became more than, I became second place more than 15 times, I guess. Oh, my god. And I was like, at the beginning, like, one, like the five, seven, ten, I'm like, it's okay. I love competing. It's my passion. And then I started to feel bad because I felt so full every time I become second, second, second. I'm like, I'm living this Federation, you know, I'm not going to compete there. And then I competed here and then I get my first place, which it was, I literally brought the curse. Yeah. And this, this why I'm here, you know, like, because I can't truly be myself. And I can't do me, you know, like, I can't be 100% who am I with all, with all freedom. So if I can't, I knew if I can be myself, I can be more successful, which, what happened, this was what happened in the United States and that's how I win the show, which it was amazing. It's the best moment on my right. I mean, and, you know, look, this, we have good bikini pros in this country, but you know what? I'm looking at your pictures on your Instagram. You got a million followers. You got 55,000 likes on a picture. That's incorrect. I mean, you realize the scope of people that you reach? It's a, it's, it's, it's so nice. And it's like, because it, that's my goal, actually. I wanted to show all the people, my story, because I was really struggling so hard and, and I get no sport and it was really hard. But eventually, I could be brave enough to move from Turkey here. I'm really appreciated the really good people they have me, that's how I could make it. And I finally, I started to get results of my hard work here, because my hard work was, my consensus here. Right. Yeah. Well, you know, it's, you know, it's, it's, I feel bad that you had to go through this because, you know, I know I want to go through this discrimination, you know, like, especially coming from Turkey. And it's like, it's like, you have like, you said, bad flashback, but you look phenomenal. And, you know what? I think this is just going to make you that much more popular, and maybe the big guy upstairs said, Hey, you know what? We need to shed some spotlight on this woman. And you got it. And, you know what? I really, I'm excited to see you compete. You have plans to get on stage this year. I'm not sure about this year because I've been competing for so long, not stopped. Right. Almost 30 competitions in eight years. Oh wow. And next year, I want to focus better, and I should do better, because now it's better for me to live with Shildana and enjoy my work, with our stress. Right. Where are you, you're living in LA now? Excuse me. Are you living in LA now? Oh yeah. Yeah. Where do you train over there? Well, I go a lot of gyms because I do make content, but when I was competing, I was going to Teams that I growd in gym, and or sometimes I train in a kinox, cost fitness. Yeah. Yeah, very, you have a head down. Is that a skulls even open? I don't even have to even open. Oh yeah, it's, it's been too long. I haven't been there because of the pandemic. I wanted to go there when they came in. People don't realize the traffic is so bad over there. Like no one wants to drive around, like going from LA to Dennis is like, you know, that can take you three hours if you go the wrong time of the day. It's, it's so, it's especially now traffic getting worse, and no same thing. Well, I want to just thank you for joining us today, telling us the real story of what happened. And like I said, I really hope you sued the airlines, and I hope you get a big settlement, because you know what, shame on them for what they did to you. Yeah, I will do it. I'm talking to my lawyer now. So I'm about to go back to Los Angeles. We're going to figure things out. All right, well, thank you, Denise. You look great. Thank you so much for the help. No, this is awesome. I'm glad I wanted people to know the real story. I didn't really know the real story, and I'm glad you, you agreed to do this. And like I said, I, I hope to see you maybe on an Arnold classic stage in 2022. Okay, okay, thank you so much. All right, guys, that's going to take us to the end of this episode. I'm Dave Palombo with another Rx muscle. News update.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low carb hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning on day polomba. Today is Tuesday, August 10th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Everyone's in a while. I catch myself saying old man things to my kids. They care for what you ask for because you just might get it. Which always makes me cringe right after I do it. But even if it does make me feel old, it doesn't make it any less true. And I say that because I've seen a lot of athletes posting online stuff saying, well, bring it on. I'm ready for the Olympia, which is fine as long as you know they're bringing on the Olympia. It also means of bringing on a hotny chupin. And once you get the full hotny, all of the sudden you realize that you're well in deep water. And then before you know what you're drowning, hotny's been picking up steam like some time to tsunami. Ready to wipe out everything it touches on the shoreline. And once that wave touches down a few weeks from now, I hope everyone realizes that they're getting exactly what they ask for. You guys ago, someone brought to my attention the fact that we haven't covered a lot of men's or women's physique action lately. So that's exactly what we're going to do with these next two segments. Starting with this update from your 2019 Olympia champ, Ray Edmunds. Way back at the beginning of the season. We saw Ray come out and look great in his second place finish behind Kyron Holden at the Pittsburgh pro. And from what I've heard after he wrapped up that weekend, raised pretty much Ben all gas and no breaks trying to get himself ready to make a serious run at winning the title back this fall. We all know that when Ray is at the top of his game, that he's one of the one or two or three best athletes in the division. So if he dots all his eyes and crosses all those teas, you can bet your butt that he'll be given Brandon Hendrickson. Oh, he can handle. On the women's physique side of things, as far as the Olympia is concerned, I think the big question on everyone's mind here is whether or not we're going to see Sarah Valegas repeat as champion throughout our career. Sarah has always been one of those athletes who we don't hear or see much of, which he's not on stage. Now, said to that little back and forth, she had with Shini Kran a few months ago, well, that's pretty much been the case this year too. But that being said, one of the other things that we know about Sarah is that she always shows up at delivers. Pound for Pound, she's probably the most consistent athlete in the division in terms of her conditioning over the last few years. And that's on top of the fact that she's always comes back to the stage having improved her weaknesses, which is what makes her really dangerous. And if she just keeps being the same athlete that she's been for the last few years, I think it's a tall order for anyone else to knock her off the throne. By now, I'm sure you've probably all seen the update photo of Big Rami that had everyone up in arms last week. But in case you haven't seen it, we covered it on one of our shows last week and we shared it on our Instagram. So you can go check it out there. But for now, I want to give you guys an update on what Big Rami's coach Danish James thinks about where the rating Olympia champ is right now. And in the words of DJ, Winther is coming, Winther is here and Winther is here to stay. Last week, DJ went on the record to say that he and Rami would be getting together to train again soon and finish what they started and keep the Olympia trophy right there where it is in Egypt. And considering what happened when these two got together last year, if DJ is saying that he'll be even better this time around, year two of Rami's reign over the bodybuilding world, might end up being his story. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypalombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

There are many different things There are We're moving on to anything like that There are no We're going to see a real That falls in the morning There's nothing we can't do Don't let us show Don't let us show We're going to show We're going to show Where to? Go over Stop breaking You know Right on Show Small hecho All Spread étme Feeling very upset And Rub hanya, and Silおhips, and Kirkumberer and I'm here now. The shooter is fine. I'm here now. I'm here now. I'm here now. I'm here now. Okay. I'm here now.

The world is under way, the world is under way The world is under way, the world is under way

我不ốt回合三亿延國gie轉摺越來越多連我要分享爆彎的瀑樣如果我認為你是不是只有拍功耳的如果你將十一浧幸福變成 seeing 他最燈心的那我們是成像我們錄影機的球istic因為現在加入境外的這樣的體能S-Stay Better Known, as hashtagS-Stay, your 30-minute question there and answer show with Dave Klumbo all your questions, diet, training, supplementation, I-A-B-B-PRO's news whatever was on your mind, it is all on the tables, you know, I'll bring it Dave Klumbo Dave obviously it's been about three, four days now the bodybuilding world still very much in shock to the news that we received Sunday throughout the course of the day there were seemingly unverified reports but then at a certain point we were late in the afternoon we all pretty much had a universal agreement that the news is true and that John Meadows had in fact left us a big loss for the bodybuilding world and you know, you read the tributes obviously you posted a very heartfelt tribute that night he was someone that no one has a negative word to say about you know, universally acclaimed as a bodybuilding trainer coach personality but you know, the way that we penned it and the way that I- me personally that I will, I guess always remember he said he was everyone's number one fan he seemed to be happiest for everyone regardless of whatever realm of the bodybuilding world they were in due it was just so happy to be around everyone you know, we used to see him at the shows and you remember how happy he was to just talk about anything so some of the certainly he's going to be very much missed by bodybuilding fans and everyone like you know, I think he was well liked also because he wasn't one of these guys who went around saying you see my guy he won or my girl she won, you know, he didn't really make himself he didn't try to put himself out they're like he was the guy who won he was just the guy who was helping out and doing what he liked to do, you know and I think that comes off as being very humble because a lot of people want to take, you know, get all the credit for their athletes when he after all the athletes that do in the work were just, you know, as coaches myself included, you know, were just the guys who were women who were providing information and motivating our clients and yeah, that's important but after all, when someone wins the Olympia it's not about the coaches about the guy who won and I think the job was all about that he was all about promoting the athletes that he worked with not about trying to get himself in there and get more people out of it and that's because he just liked what he did and when you like what you do, it comes off as sincere and it comes off as like you're having a good time, you know, it's not stressful, it's not a lot of work and people always ask me the same question I can only relate it to myself where people say they've always worked and you ever sleep, I say, well, I am working but I kind of like what I'm doing so it's not really, it's not like I really feel like I'm overwhelmed with work and I think that's the way he was he wanted to work in what he liked doing and it came off as so sincere and genuine that people are attracted to that they want to be around someone who loves the same things that they love and that's why he had such a following and that's why I think people saw upset when he passed because people just even if they didn't really work with him they liked his energy that he projected about the industry because it wasn't like this negative, you know, the people out there who were very negative about everything it wasn't this negative projection it was this positive like, hey, everyone can build muscle, here's, you know, advice on how to do it and have a good time doing it because that's what it's all about and so he's missed of course because of that because we want to be around people I enjoyed interviewing, when I interviewed him I always, when the interview was over, I was in a good mood I felt like we had a lot in common and that, you know, I could sense his genuine he had this child-like gettingness about working out and quantifying things and figuring out new ways to achieve different results but you know, at the end of the day we never know when our time clock is up and his alarm went off and they took them to a better place at this point and so we have to look at it as not as a sad loss but as, hey, we were lucky to have this guy in our lives for as long as we did and his body of work will never disappear, it's out there still obviously it's a big loss to his family his wife and his kids but and that's something that, you know, there's nothing we can say to make them feel any different time, we'll have to heal that wound but obviously we can support them I think there is a go-fundMe campaign if we find it, we could put that go-fundMe campaign up there so people want to contribute to help put the costs of everything now that he's not here anymore sure his family would be greatly appreciative and once again, I send my love and prayers out to everyone who was touched by John at some point in their life yeah, as for the go-fundMe we did post it on our Instagram about $194,000 yeah, incredible so we will have that link in the article description below so again, we send our warmest warmest wishes someone contributed to 10,000 dollars a couple times there I think too look at the mom and just wow when someone like you when you're that loved and the industry and people are, you know, are that generous, you know, with their money because you've touched them in such a way that's a special person we're just going to show you the kind of man that he was and the kind of love, I'm pouring of love that this industry has given us away so again if you have not already contributed to go-fundMe we're going to put the link below and you'll have every chance to assist John's family during his very very difficult time let's get to the questions of course the first two questions are from the Dave Plumbo experience app Dave after I recently reviewed all your assday videos I found a theory that most of your recommended food supplements such as Mac and the oil Avocado oil or Racketonic acid are basically infant supplementary or additive of baby complimentary foods is this theory that something would be applied to bodybuilders daily basis so then he goes on to say something else so I don't know if you do make sense or that kind of a theory think about what's the population I've been aware of that obviously compliment or that similarity but there's a reason what babies grow their main goal is to sleep and grow and they sleep and grow because of what's going on in their body hormones are being produced which is making their bodies change very rapidly and they are tremendous in our nutrients and that's why they have protein drinks people think that breast milk is low in protein but it's really not when you think about it if you get a gram or two of protein at every dose throughout the day and the baby only weighs 7 pounds the baby is drinking 8 or 9 times a day so that's a gram per pound that it weighs so that's perfect so babies need high protein good essential fatty acids for brain development and muscle development and they need calcium for bone strengthening so it's basically a little baby is like a little microcosm of the bodybuilding world and so if you want to be a great bodybuilder you need to consume a lot of protein at least a gram per pound that you weigh you need to consume a lot of essential fatty acids because we know they're not only an integral for nerve development but also all the muscle cell membranes and they've been made to these whole the hormones and prostate glands and they're produced from these so you need your fish oils or your DHA is what they supplement the babies with which is one of the intermediate found in fish oil a rack and anonic acid which is in the central omega 6 fatty acid like you said the monomusaturated fats they're all in there because those are what the body needs and then what do the babies do all day? they sleep all day so the more you sleep as a bodybuilder that's when your body is growing and recovering when you're workout so it does it babies mimic the adult situation so greatly that it's no coincidence and once again what's the best way to grow? Eat small meals throughout the day just like babies do and so I think that it's not a coincidence and what I do recommend is ironic but it's at the same time very consistent with what you would think a lot of people don't even know the essential fats and explain that over and over again that you need these things to maximize your body's ability to build and repair muscle think about it you can eat half as much protein as you do and you'll still grow but you won't grow as much same thing with fats you can leave that all the fats in your diet there's indirect sources of fat within the protein sources you eat like chicken and meat something that's in fish but it's not a lot so you'll still grow but you might be limiting your body's ability to put on maximum size and recover as quickly as possible because you're not getting enough fat or you're not getting enough protein or you're not getting enough sleep or you're over training your body and that's why some people make very good you know progress in some people make so-so progress I you know pride in myself unack-somizing my body's ability to grow okay by doing every covering every variable possible and during a five or seven year period I put on you know 110 or 120 pounds of muscle not just body weight of muscle so to do that you have to really maximize everything you do and that's why I sit here and I week after week after week I instruct people on what to do you don't have to listen to me you can get mediocre results if you want but I'm telling you if you follow the the tenets of the science that we're discussing here and of the basic principles of nutrition if you you're going to put on really good amounts of size and your burn fat depending on what your goal is it's pure science and then you have to go out and apply it obviously I can't go to the gym with you and make you bench press and you know put full range of motion and lifting heavy weights assuming you're doing that though you got to do the supplementation and you got to do the food that's part of the whole equation second question again from the day of lungo experience that they've with your rotational diet two days no carbs one day carbs you never go in a ketosis you know it's questionable I mean theoretically to get into ketosis you really need to restrict carbohydrates for three days but some people can go into ketosis eating a little bit of carbs because they're metabolism is so fast they metabolize whatever they're consuming carbohydrates and so a lot of guys will be in ketosis you could tell when you're in ketosis because your brain really feels very clear you feel clear headed and you feel like you have a lot of mental energy that's the best way I can describe it when I do the rotation diet and I get to like two or three days of protein fat and a row and then one day of carbohydrates that's when people tend to be in ketosis and then they'll come out for like one day when they're on the carbs and they go back into ketosis when you're doing more when you're doing like when I have people doing like three carb days and a row and only one protein in fat day that's very low in carbs a lot more than likely you're not in ketosis on those days but I felt it with my body I've probably probably had 80 or 90 grams of carbs per day and I'm talking carbs from like a little bit of rice or a little bit of potato and I'd still be in ketosis I knew it, I could feel it and as soon as I would go over the edge like over 90 I could tell now my brain was looking for glucose and I was always hungry and I was getting those cravings and low blood sugars so you gotta figure out what works for your body but I had a very fast metabolism so for people with slow metabolism you can't give them any stargia carbs they just will not stay in ketosis but once you have to be in ketosis to lose weight you can be on a low carb diet and lose weight too as long as you're getting your essential fats in that your body requires you don't necessarily have to be in ketosis it's just more comfortable to be in ketosis because your brain has an unlimited fuel source and the source in the way of fats let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not already following this or hand those official underscore or ex muscle if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube hit the subscribe button below hit the notification bell you're not going to miss any of our shows, segments or updates if you like what you're watching hit the like button comment below that helps and as always we thank you for all your support let's go to diesel D23 gear wise what would you say someone is running in classic firsts open? so I guess if you want to alter that to how much? you know I hate to say this because it's not really a big great data set that I have here but I really I've seen you know I work with people and I see what somebody's got a lot of these cycles are exactly the same for the class skin the open guys let's face the classic guys are just smaller guys than the open guys there are some classic guys they can get bigger and do keep themselves smaller and they may take a little bit less gear because they already got all the muscle they need but for most of the classic guys that are still trying to add muscle and improve the way they're physical they're using cycles that are very comparable to the open guys maybe not the extreme open guys that are doing ridiculous amounts but I'm talking for a guy who's in the open glass who doesn't overdo his gear I think the classic in the open cycle the amounts are about the same I would say now having said that there's always the one person that doesn't fit that mold and I'm sure there's guys in men's physique they probably use more than some of the open guys do but that's just you know that's that's life some people are just extremists but I don't think the cycles of that much different I got newsfeed I see bikini girls that are using more gear than the women's body those are using I don't know why but they do it it happens all the time so you gotta find out what works for you and don't worry about what anyone else is doing it's good to action figure 86 if you eat too much carbs you spill over and it gets stored as body fat too much protein gets converted into glucose what happens when you eat too much fat well I mean I guess you get simplistically sippedyking if you eat too much protein a lot of it believe it in a lot of it gets metabolized directly as fuel rather than getting converted right to carbs some of it is converted to carbs but a small amount of it gets converted to carbs that's why it's hard to get fat from eating too much protein you could stall your diet and not lose any more weight because now your body is using the protein for fuel but very it's very you have to eat a lot of extra protein to actually store that stuff it's fat obviously the extra carbs it's easy to get fat and as far as some fat's go that's going to get stored directly as fat they don't require insulin so if you overeat fat you will store the extra as fat I mean it's just that is not something people eat as so much because it makes you nauseous and you need too much of it so you don't really see people eating a whole stick of butter it's just not something you do so more than likely you're not getting fat from overeating fat now I know girls and probably if you guys have the hooky who can eat a whole jar of peanut butter the problem with peanut butter is that it's not all fat it's got a lot of carbs and protein in it so it's the carb component that you're getting fat from really not the fat component I mean when was the last time you saw someone take a bottle of my macadamia and it'll just start chugging it down while they're watching TV you don't do that you'll be sick to get stomach so I don't really see the overeat consumption of fats as much as I do foods that have fats in them like I said people will over consume nuts or peanut butter very rarely have I seen anyone sitting at eat five of the macados because it's just you can't know how to see what's in doing so like I said but if you do eat extra fat it can be stored in fat I'll tell you where people make a mistake with fat a lot of times when they're cooking their foods they're pouring and doing that pan spray they're putting oil in the bottom of the pan and then the food that they're eating is absorbing that oil and then they're so they're over consuming fat and that a lot of times sabotage their diet so if you fit in that category or I recommend that you you poach your foods or you grill them so you don't have to put all that extra oil in the pan because the food does absorb it it's going to cost the meat do you ever do many cuts when bulking for better insulin sensitivity how many cake house should you reduce for how long et cetera I don't think they could have thrown an extra initial into that whole thing again you got to repeat it again between sling and cake house of a big deal what was the question? the first part of the question is did you ever do many cuts while bulking for better insulin sensitivity? I didn't do that, I'll tell you why because I really never got fat in the overseas but I do work with people that were bulking them up and they get to a point and I think they get a little too sloppy and I'll throw some cardio in there I'll cut their carbs back in a little bit and put them on a diet per se but I'll change things around to lean them out a little bit and then I'll start going again forward so yeah that is nothing wrong with doing that I think that's if the person tends to get fat rather than turn to have fat hanging off their waist it's a good time, it's a good time it's a good thing to do is to bring them back a little bit I wouldn't put them on climb uteroll or fapper is there I would just cut back their food a little bit so yesterday we had a carrot body on the show of course two-troll winner at the time Pro Nico Cantomira wants to know when you prepped him Did you apply your keto diet, your rotational diet if you want to maybe give us a glimpse as far as how you went into for carrot carrot has a very fast metabolism so most of the diet he was eating I was doing a rotation type he was eating a lot of days of carbs and then some days of protein in fat just like shock his body every third day or so or every fourth day or so and then when we got closer I kept kind of the same format but I cut back the carb amounts in the carb days because he does have a very fast metabolism so as long as his weight was coming down which was doing consistently and very easily his weight he loses weight at a good pace once I died of there was no really reason to really turn the screw down between Chicago and Tampa I felt that we had to bring a better look to the stage I knew it was going to be competitive it was going to be a lot of same guys I knew that it was going to be determined on who was the leanest guy on stage so I did torture him for those 10 days or so and we went protein in vegetables we went no carbs and very little fat for three or four days in a row and that's three or four days he lost five or six pounds I'm sure some of them were water but he really leaned out a lot and brought his glutes and hamstrings way better than they were for Chicago and I really believed that's what pushed him over the edge but once again you talk about a guy who is a really, really genetically gifted guy and the metabolism category I'd never seen the guy fat he was telling us in the interview that he was drinking he was really depressed he wasn't working out because the gym was close he was drinking beers and when he came back and said I'm ready to start again he didn't even look bad he might have lost a little bit of muscle just because he wasn't lifting weights but he really his body fat was not high it was higher than it was for the show but it was not high so that just tells me the guy has got a gift in the metabolism so he's not a good guy to kind of emulate unless your metabolism is similar to his Relentless Lucas he wants to know as far as is it good to take a pump product before stepping on stage I guess well generally be your advice as far as timing mechanism for using a pump product you know a lot of people have asked me this question I know some people that actually do it not a lot of people I think it's risky I'll tell you why because if you look great backstage you're not being judged on veins because if there was a context on who has the best veins on stage I would be Mr. Olympian no one had better veins than I did okay crazy court like veins they don't care about that they can't with the judges care about his muscle separation how the muscles look how this stretching the skin which is fullness how they separate meaning the grooves that they create so when you see looking on stage and people flex their muscles you see lines that's what the judges are looking for they don't care if you're pumped out of your mind matter of fact having a lot of veins sometimes is a little distracting you know on a physique and if you blow those veins out too much a lot of times they can bring water to the surface a little bit and so I think the pump products are dangerous because they do dilate the veins but they're not and they do bring a little bit more muscle but they're really not improving separation and then in essence if you ever did a crazy set of squats in the gym and your legs look enormous and they're all veney they don't have a lot of separation because there's a lot of fluid in there from all that pump aspect that's going on all that blood going in there because the blood can leave the vessels and go under the skin a little bit so I would say do not take a pump product prior to getting on stage I think it's risky and like I said if you're in shape don't play these cookie games the last minute because you know what all you can do is screw yourself up interesting one here from a cheap Monday and the reason that I bring this up you do have a lot of bodybuilders now who I know I got to specifically you have the conversation with Hunter's brother regarding his prep and his take on vegetables you have a lot of bodybuilders who try to get their nutrients in other ways other than having vegetables the question is is it really important that vegetables make me float is a possible to take fiber and micro nutrients from supplements and completely avoid vegetables it's a good question and I have a really good answer for that I never give my clients vegetables I never ate vegetables for the reason of getting nutrients because most vegetables and devoid of nutrients and for most of the vegetables that we eat is bodybuilders pre-contest it's like green beans and asparagus and lettuce since this really not a lot of nutrients in that we're doing it to keep our stomachs full basically we're trying to bulk up our diet a little bit so that we're not starving to death and giving our body a little bit energy to use that's really what it's being used for most of the micro nutrients that you need vitamins, minerals, trace metals that's how to come from supplementation is not a lot in foods anymore it's very hard to get enough and figure out how many to get this many milligrams this many microbes of that it's not even worth it just take a supplementation like the mineralized it's not only vitamins and minerals covered you're taking essential fatty acids supplement like omega-lytes and then you don't have to worry about the micro nutrients and all the essentials you've got them in there right the food the macronutrients that's the food protein fat carbs that's going to help build repair muscle provide a fuel source that's what you need that for that's the most important thing so when we're eating, especially pre-contest we're really focused on getting enough protein, fat, and carbs and depending each person has a different required amount that they need that's the most important thing if you try to do everything and get everything into your diet, you accomplish nothing trust me can you skip vegetables altogether? absolutely, it probably doesn't even matter I think a lot there was a lot of diets that I ate off season where I never even ate a single vegetable I happened to like the taste of vegetables but if I felt that it was inhibiting my ability to get enough of the good stuff and it was going to help me build and repair muscle I just skipped it in other words, if I'm going to sit in an eat-a-meal and if I have a salad with this meal I'm not going to be able to eat as much protein as I need to eat because I need to eat 10 ounces at a meal on the salad, the salad that's not helping me is not doing anything just because it's green doesn't mean it's doing anything that's foolish thinking but if I know that I need so many milligrams of vitamin C and vitamin E and B vitamins to metabolize carbohydrates help me with those reactions I'm going to make sure I take a damn good multi-videy and multi-mineral to get enough calcium and magnesium I dying, you know, chromium, all those things because I know that those micro nutrients assist all the chemical reactions in the body so don't worry about getting micro nutrients from foods, get it from supplements take your fiber supplement, like fiber-lies to make sure you got enough fiber in your diet so you don't have to bulk up your meals with the ton of vegetables and carbohydrate-laden foods like, you know, old-brand and then just worry about eating your meals to get your protein fat in carbs Tom, for a couple more questions, let's go to Big Daddy Jank's, are there any areas of dying training where you would say the, quote, meat-headed body-building community is ahead of the science and accepted research I think the body-building world is ahead forever and it's always considered to be ahead because you know what, there's always going to be these scientists that will do these isolated experiments showing that, oh, if you do the movement like this with this angle, you're actually activating more muscle fibers but, you know, guess what? You know, we've already had 300 pound body-balls on stage in shape. It's got big for a reason because they lifted heavy ass weights, okay, with full range motion, okay, using, you know, good-mind muscle connection. There's nothing that's going to replace those exercises just like there's no one's going to come up with a steroid cycle, okay, after they've been out for 67 years now that we didn't think about already back in the day. All of it, there might be new drugs that hit the market, okay, at some time in the future that build muscle that we haven't even conceptualized yet, but other stuff that's out there, no one's coming up with a better scheme than what's already out there. Sorry, they've been around too long, we know what works, everyone's trying every combination, we know what works, okay? Same thing with exercises. You want to get big legs, you squat weight, you squat heavy weight with full range of motion, okay, and you build big legs. If you can't squat, you have an injury, you have to use leg press or smith machine, that's fine too, but nothing's replacing the squat, okay, none of these exercises. So the bodybuilders know what works to build muscle. Now, if you're a bodybuilder and you're trying to get big legs, that doesn't mean that that's the right exercise to use, okay, if you want to be a sprinter and have great explosive movement, it might be something you incorporate, but there might be new ones on the squat and on the leg press that are going to help you with explosive type movements on stage. I mean, in your event. So the bodybuilders know what works for the bodybuilders in the gym, drug wise, given what drugs are out there right now, and we kind of have the food thing that they could figure out pretty well too. Up until recently, they were teaching in school the food pyramid. Now they're at least modifying that a little bit to include some more open type of ideas about insulin management and stuff like that. But at the end of the day, bodybuilders are still, I think, light years ahead of everyone else when it comes to diet. I talked to people, I do consultations with regular people all the time. They know nothing about diet. They do not teach you this stuff in school. I have no idea why not. It makes perfect sense to actually have a course on how to eat. I wish they would teach kids how to eat. I wish they would have a realistic, hey guys, this is what this is protein, this is fat, this is carbohydrates. This is what these things do. If you want to achieve this, you eat this and you want to achieve that, you eat that. If you want to be healthy and keep your cholesterol low, you have to eat lower, carbohydrate and sugar and foods. If you want to lose body fat, you have to keep your carbohydrates lower to keep insulin levels lower. If you want to have, what do you want to put extra muscle on, you need extra protein in your diet, because that's what builds both. They don't teach you that in school. I don't know why, maybe one day they will. I'll take one more and you have leek, pre-scoming up in just a matter of minutes. Interesting one here is from Chester Brown. So he goes, as men's physique competitors, wear board shorts to hide the parts that are not being judged. And then I guess he facetiously has, how long do you think it'll be until the open men's are wearing football socks up to their knees? So if you want to clarify as far as calves and he bearing on judging, and I know he's kind of joking, but does he have a point? You know, the problem is that you don't really see the, you know, people don't look down that low to see calves. I mean, back in Arnold's day, I think guys legs worn his big, so calves really stuck out a lot more as being a really important body part. But if you have a guy like Randy with enormous, enormous quads, I mean, you're almost don't even look past those quads. They're so great. I'm not saying it's a body part that should be neglected, but I think it's less important, just like, how many people lost a show because they had great arms that they didn't have good forearms. You know, you see them, but everyone's looking at the arm up in the air. If you got a big bicep and tricep, it's very impressive looking. So I'm more upset about the fact that they don't judge men's physique legs than they, than they don't really pay attention to the calves of open bodybuilders. Because I mean, after all, I mean, why not judge men's physique's legs? Why not judge the whole body? I mean, what is men's physique? It's really, it's a, it's a, it's a physique contest without posing essentially. So why not show the whole physique? I can definitely see over the course of the next, you know, five, ten years, made to the board shorts getting shorter, made to them changing that up a little bit. Because I think a lot of those guys in men's physique actually do have good legs. And some of them don't want to pose on stage. They don't want to go to classic physique. Now I understand that if you want to show your legs and you have, you can go to classic. But a lot of these men's physique guys don't want to get as big as these guys in classic. And they want to stay in men's physique. So you never know. I think we have a, a much better chance of seeing the board shorts get smaller than than than than not judging than then covering up people's calves with the big socks. I don't know what's going to happen. That's going to do for this episode of As Dave or Mindar right now in the article description below. We have to link to the GoFundMe set up for John Meadows family. So again, whenever we've had its situations where bodybuilder or bodybuilder's family than their need, this community is always stepped up. And we expect that you will do the same for John Meadows family. For anybody this in the Columbus Ohio area, we posted on our Instagram the information for John Meadows service. We're going to take place later this week. I believe Friday. So again, we pass along our warmest wishes to John Meadows family to his legions of followers. And do what you can to keep his memory alive. We know that he loved this sport and he loved everyone in his community. For Tyler Short and Dave, along both, I'm Siddhi Furuki. We'll see you next time.

Daypalumbo here with another RX muscle product review. You've seen me review a lot of massage guns lately. Well, this is an interesting device that's called the Aecto-Way cover. So, if any of you guys would go for cupping therapy when they actually put these suction cups on you and it actually draws blood and increases blood flow. For a lot of people, they really like it. I know I get pictures all the time from bodybuilders who send me their update pictures. They got these marks all the back and stuff like that from the cupping therapy they went for this is something you can do at home yourself. It's a pretty interesting little device they got here. I'm actually really impressed with it. Let me get this thing open up. I'm going to open it up up here, nice little box. Here's the unit. Let's see what's going to be in this open here. Alright, so the good thing is this thing. Here's the cupping unit itself with the controls on top. This thing actually opens up and you can change this little filter pad here. They come with replacements like this so that we can keep nice and clean because as you're using this on your body it's going to take up dead skin cells. That's what I like that. This just wants to get just screws right on. This is literally a cup. What you do is you'll put it on. I had an arm workout that was really tough into my arms to sore. You basically put them right here. You push the button and you can see it's you can see the light there and it just starts working and it's sucking more turns red. It starts blue and it turns red and it will give intermittent pulses of sucking. What that's doing is it's drawing blood to that area and enabling the area to theoretically heal itself better and more efficiently. You can just, you know, you can read a book while you do it essentially. If you've done enough in that area you want to stop it. You can hit this button and it will release it and you'll see I have a little cupping mark here on my body. Let's say I want to now go to my forearm. Maybe my forearms are sore. I've got a tough arm workout and I did forearms after. Once again it's suction really well. I mean it's, I don't even have to hold it. It's on. It's like falling off this thing. It's a very strong suction for a little unit like this and it becomes with a little charger. You can literally plug this thing into your computer. Your laptop computer and charge this thing. Standard charger. And once again you can control how strong the suction is with the top controls. I mean this is good. Once again it's easy because you can go from muscle to airy to the muscle area. Now let's say my neck is bothering me. I can put it here now. If I put on my neck, I only got a hikki from someone. So I'm like, you can have that. Look I have like, I went from blood work the other day and I have a little bruise on my arm. So if I want to maybe increase circulation to there so that that bruising goes away faster, I can put this right on here and once again it starts blue and then when it gets to enough of a suction it turns red. This is a really weird side part of my arm so I'm just going to hold it here to make sure it keeps the suction on there. And once again it's bringing blood flow to this area which is going to help flush out that little bruise that I have on there. And so you can do this on any part of your body. You can just kind of move it around and see I can already see it's actually dissipating a little bit. You can move this around. It's light. It's got a little lannier to come through it so you can kind of put this around your neck because you want to know who would kind of put this around the neck but you can do that and have it available anytime you want to cup. And if you're into cupping and you like that therapy and it actually resonates with you then this is a great machine. You can go to their achedaway.com website that Tyler is showing you right now and you can order this device there. And it's a very high quality solid device. I highly recommend it if you're into cupping therapy. Once again it'll save you money of having to go to a professional and do it because you can do it yourself and if you want to do your back you can have like a friend of yours or you're girlfriend wife or whatever boyfriend put it on your back. And once again it's an ad home unit for body bills who work out on a regular basis who like cupping therapy in terms of increasing blood flow to help restore the muscle. I would actually use one of these devices combined with one of the massage guns. So you can kind of get a dual therapy going. Once again check it out at it. Ittoway.com. Tell them they's a polo sent you.

Light on the key with the eye and the feel of the back Wanna on a beat and twist and she goes so sick Step ahead maybe I'd like to watch Just see the crowd and we'll try Otherwise it'll go your way Can we learn other aspects TodayI Mind, I'm already dead What is your life? Is your life worth so much? What will it be? Because we just give it a life Just you and your hands tonight What is your life? What is your life? What is your life? What is your life? I will never leave, but not even till the sky Is your life, I'll you, I live forever When you change your mind Hold me soksawed, I still must act It's time, if I can't forgive myself

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday June 16th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what time it is. Recap Wednesday is back and better than ever. We've got another great show lined up for you today. Starting with this recap of last weekend's Asia Grand Prix bikini. The big story here was the winner, Sarah Choi, earning her first pro win and well deserved a Libya qualification. So couldn't congratulations for a job. Well done. The runner-up spot went to Songon Room who did enough in the minds of the judges to buff third place finisher, Ho-jung Kim, one spot down the scorecards, fourth place went to Bolasio and we're wrapping our cover cheer with your fifth place finisher, young kung kung. We haven't actually had two bikini only events on the schedule last weekend. With the other one being the clash of the Titans pro out there in the great state of Georgia. And stop if you've heard this before, but once again Ashley Coltwasser managed to walk away with yet another win, which gives her four already this year, not to mention the fact that she was second at the New York pro, which is out of control. Second place went to Carolina Colzos, who keeps getting better every time we see her. The first year was one, did enough to convince the judges to slide her into third place here at her season debut. On Jan. Nicholson, cruised comfortably into fourth and Mika Messelin rounded out a pretty solid top-five group. Out on the west coast, the men's physique division was out in full force in Sacramento for this year's NorCal Pro. And we're starting off our coverage here with the men's open where former Olympian Shura Kwascherbaaz came back from this one year sabbatical to win this show for the second straight time. The surging Joseph Lee slid into the runner-up spot for the second straight week by managing to edge out third place finisher, Miron Griffin. Fourth place went to Ishmail Dominguez, who placed in the top five or better three straight times now. And we're wrapping up the top five with Jason Hung, who looks solid in his season debut. And finally, I want to end today's show by giving you a quick update on Dusty Handshot, who was hospitalized a few weeks ago after suffering a few health complications that left him in pretty bad shape for a while. But I'm happy to report that Dusty was released from the hospital a few days ago. An intipul Dusty fashion, he's already back in the gym, trying to regain some sense of normalcy after having his life turned upside down. You've done so many of these stories lately like this that haven't had a happy ending like this, so it does make me feel good to find your report some good news during a time when the world could definitely use more of it. And hopefully now, if this is all behind him, it'll be a thing Dusty can look back on a few years or now and talk about as a transformative moment in his life. To any of you who donated or sent thoughts and prayers his way, thank you. Dusty, I'm just glad to know you're home, my friend. This is my school in the morning and that does it to you at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Day of Holombo reminding you to always be true to your passion. They should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Wake up in Smell the Coffee, it's Monday morning here at Muscle in the Morning. If you read anything ever written by any successful entrepreneur, they'll tell you that one of the real keys to being successful in life is figuring out how to develop productive routines. And I highly doubt there are too many athletes in the Women's Physic Division who are more in tune with their routines than breakout star Natalia Kahoho. Ten a week out from her Physica Limpia debut, the former figure superstar looks like she's on a collision course with the two other horses, Malacarne and Grant, that we've got leading the way and this tight race that we've got shaping up down the home stretch. The pound for pound Kahoho is one of the most talented athletes that we've ever had set foot in the division, but even with all that talent, you have to wonder whether or not she's got enough experience under her belt to step up and take the title. So, Talia Kahoho definitely won't be the only athlete in the division heading into the Olympia weekend with a full head of steam. Long time veteran Mila Ash doesn't look like she's out there taking any prisoners either. After last month's big win at the optimum pro Ash seems like she's really stepped up her game and the update she dropped over the weekend really highlight the level of dedication to our craft that she's been putting in over these last few months. Over the last year and a half or so Ash really seems to have come into her own as a Physica competitor. But if she has any plans of cracking the top five at this year's Olympia, now definitely wouldn't be the time for her to slow down or take her foot off the gas. People tell me that there might not be a more beautiful place on Earth to visit than the historic parts of Spain in the middle of summer. So now that it looks like our old friend Roman Fritz is heading out that way about two weeks from now, well maybe it's time I finally decide the hop on a plane to go over there for a visit. Over the weekend Fritz and his team release some new updates 18 days out from the big man weekend where people in the know seem to think that he'll be ready to bring his best look ever of the season. Fritz has always been one of the rare breeds who walks around with damn near zero body fat all year long. But as you can fill out enough to bring in that extra crispy look we've all been waiting for that's when he starts to become a very dangerous competitor. You know bodybuilders have a tendency to be overly sensitive way more so than pretty much any other group of athletes but then there are people like Guy Sistir Nino the ones who know how to take that constructive criticism and turn it into something special. Over the weekend the king of the beards released a whole string of clips from his current offseason project which seems to be doing whatever it takes to come in bigger and thicker from the back of the 2019 season. There's one thing you can say about sister Nino it's it's then he's been an absolute workhorse at every point as per rear so if he says he's coming back bigger and thicker in 2019 you can bet your butt that he means that he's coming back bigger and thicker in 2019. It doesn't take a bodybuilding history to figure out that flex Lewis isn't has been the most decorated in talented athlete to ever set foot in the 2012 division. But late last week Lewis and his team rocked the bodybuilding world when they announced that 2018 would be their last year competing as a 2012 competitor where possibly even their last year ever in a heartfelt Instagram post flex to express some of the eggs that went into the decision for his career and his family and cited the tragic passing of his friend Dallas McCarver as one of the sobering moments that really helped to put everything in perspective even though for some fans I think the immediate reaction might be shocking all at the end of the day everyone needs to sit down and remember that all of these athletes are just people they have lives they have kids they have families and to gain the world and lose all those things in the process is really to gain nothing at all so my hat goes off the flex for having the courage to do what he's doing and I personally can't wait to see how he writes the ending to this next chapter and that does if he had another addition of muscle in the morning on day full of no reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Our Ex Television on RXMuscle.com. This is AS Dave, better known as hashtag AS Dave brought to you by Species Nutrition Visit speciesnutrition. On host of the EATFORWCYVIS, is your 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Pullumbull, all your questions on diet, training, supplementation, IFB, pros, news, competitions, whatever is on your mind, it is all on the tables. We now bring in Dave Pullumbull Dave. Some exciting news on the RXMuscle Front as we welcome in a new advertiser on board. Yeah, as you guys probably know, I'm very good friends with Jimmy Mentis and Jimmy just acquired liquid sun rays to add to his portfolio of companies along with his beauty fit. He'll be actually in the studio next week. We're going to be doing a cool interview with about that in the history of tanning and stuff like that, so that should be fun. Species in Jimmy and I go back to the days of diet, German, and pro tan when they first started out. This is exciting because liquid sun rays is a great tanning product. It's probably got the best color out there at this time in the industry. Jimmy is trying to revolutionize how we tan people and take it to a higher level. Back in the day, guys would have terrible tan, some guys would have a green. Nowadays, stepping on stage with anything less than a perfect tan is shame, shame on you. The liquid sun rays company is usually at all the shows and you can easily sign up with them and have them tan you and what used to take hours and hours now is a painting on this tan now takes 10 minutes. So there's no excuse for not having a perfect tan anymore. So again, welcome, liquid sun rays on board. The newest RX muscle advertiser right now on rxmuscle.com yesterday, we were sent pictures of big romis latest progress pictures by butterboudy. The head owner of Oxygen Jim that video is live right now at rxmuscle.com. Dave Arpres his opinions on big romi 10 weeks out from the Olympia. Watch for it today or tomorrow. We have a great two-part interview with Dan Solomon. He's the voice of the Olympia live broadcast. He came in and Dave and Dan has some really good insights into this upcoming Olympia. Some of the new changes of course. The new people's champ rule and it's so much morals. And the question, the first two questions from the Dave Pullumbo experience app, the first question, what top three ingredients for enhanced or are the top three ingredients for enhancing brain cognitive function in your opinion, when to take and anything we can naturally do as well. You know, I hate to say it, but it's so simple. A cup of coffee is probably the best, you know, it's similar. You could probably use for a firm for alertness. No, I don't do stimulants because I have like a harder with me. The kickstand, if my heart rate gets too high, you know, normally it rest, it doesn't, I don't have any problems with it. I don't even, I'm not even aware of it. But I don't do stimulants for that very reason. I don't need to like, you know, push my heart. So I don't do stimulants, but I'll tell you something. I drank a cup of coffee the other day, a half a cup. And I was so alert. My whole brain fog went completely away. I became super focused. There's really nothing better than that. The problem is that everyone uses these stimulants every single day in excess of a mass and they don't work anymore. So what's the best brain stimulant or the best thing to ferment alertness? Really? Like I said, a little bit of caffeine. The key is, don't abuse it. I'm coming out with a product. We're trying to formulate it. I mean, we'll formulate it already. We're trying to, you know, put the whole thing together. It's called neurowise. It's going to contain a whole bunch of different, you know, no or, the topic, you know, this is funny because back in the 90s we talked about, no, it's tropics. They'll fill up, and his book, the out of rock reference guy. And I think the one dollar tropic that existed at the time was parasitum. And we used to try to use the dividables. And it didn't work a little bit. It really wasn't anything great. But now they have a lot of natural supplements that when you put together synergistically kind of create a, almost like a, you know, a mental focused type situation. And that's what I'm trying to do with the neuralized product. You know, I was originally going to put the same formula into a pre-workout. But I'm like, you know, I think people are basically confusing pre-workouts with focus products. And you should, I don't think you need to do the two together necessarily. I think they should be divided because not everyone wants to take a pre-workout and be stimulated at their mind because they take it at night because they train at night. And then they can't sleep at night. So rather than me, what I used to do is produce two pre-workouts. Night realized with caffeine. Night realized with that. I'm just going to go with a pure neuro-focused type product. And then if I want to put together a pre-workout, I'll put together a stem free pre-workout because I don't think you need to put the stems in there. If, if a pre-workout is good, you should feel the pump, you should feel the endurance. That has nothing to do with the stimulant portion of the product. So that's how I'm going to do. And I'm going to like I said, the question was, what's the best, you know, brain stimulant? It's caffeine really, right off the bat. But how you make the caffeine more effective is how the other compounds come into play. And once that product comes out, I will explain what my scientific approach was to putting that to the other. Second question from L'Aceum, under what conditions and time of day do we want high cortisol? You ever suggest trying to control it. And it's so what are the benefits to this? Well, in the morning is when cortisol levels are highest. That's just our natural circadian rhythms dictate that. So that's why I was always a big believer of doing, you know, like growth hormone, your injections in the morning to try to counteract some of that, you know, catabolic effect of cortisol. Now cortisol is important because when your blood sugar drops, there's two hormones that can raise blood sugar. Glucogone, which is produced by your, your pancreas, kind of does the opposite of insulin. It takes whatever glucose to store or glycogen storage in the muscles of the liver and it liberates it. It makes it turns it into glucose, puts it into the blood sugar and raises blood sugar. Cortisol, which is produced by the adrenal glands, can raise blood sugar, but it does it by a different mechanism. It takes amino acids and usually in the liver a little bit in the kidneys and it converts it into glucose. That's known as gluconeogenesis. So it's actually making new glucose that was never around. Whereas glucogont takes existing stored glucose and liberates it. So they work by different mechanisms. So you don't want to have zero cortisol because it's a safety net in your body. In other words, your liver is always monitoring and your pancreas for that matter. How much blood glucose is there when you're sleeping at night a lot of times, you know, your blood glucose can drop. That's when cortisol raises blood sugar while you're sleeping. That's why people who don't have good blood sugar control know this when they wake up. And the morning that fasting blood sugars can be high. Okay, because their bodies can't manage. Because think about it. When you produce glucose into the bloodstream, the pancreas has to release insulin. So you can absorb that glucose. If your insulin production is not optimal for whatever reason you're taking growth hormone, your pancreas to stress that, maybe it's a little burnt out, you might be, you know, watering on diabetes. You're not going to be able to have good blood sugar control. So to get back to the question, cortisol is important, but we don't want excessive amounts of it in the body. It's good or Instagram questions. First question from hoodman 521. The best movement for a thicker middle back is supported upper torso movements as effective as bent over movements. Yeah, I think that's the best way to go. When you try and it really target those little middle back muscles, the rhomboids, and really it's really the lower part of the traps, too, we're talking about. Because the traps go all the way down the middle of your back in the middle there. And when you try to target those small muscle groups, you're better off doing rowing movements with like a pad against your chest, because it kind of forces you to not cheat with other muscles. And it really targets those muscles. When you're doing those exercises, weight should not be really a priority. It should be the squeeze and how you're really feeling that muscle really just, you know, pulling back there. If you're just feeling your arms during the movement and you're just kind of hurling the weight, then you're really not targeting those little middle muscle, middle back muscles. I've seen a lot of guys that are super strong on bent rows, dead lifts, pull downs, and they have no middle back detail. And that's because they just don't target those muscles. They use the other muscles to compensate so they can lift heavier. So that's why I always broke down your do your basic heavy movements first, pull down the bent rows, one arm rows, then go to the end of your back work, I'll go to your isolation type back movements where you have the pad. Whether it be sitting in a rowing machine with the pad against you, or leaning over in that one, the pad sits against your chest and you pull up. Those are great because they force those middle back muscles to work. P.R. dip. My question is the best option to get shredded. Claim versus ECA stack, like Black Mamba, and can I use T4 rather than T3 to stack what the above option because T4 is cheap? And I want to know the dosage of T3. Yeah, the, you know, Klemeterols, the best fapper and you can use really. I mean it doesn't, it's so much better than a fager in caffeine that the, no comparison. So if you have access to Klemeterols, obviously I would choose that. I like to stack it with T3, or you know, it's the brand-name being side of Melon the United States. Side-Mell and Mexico and then other names and different places, but T3 is the active ingredient. And you don't really want to use T4 because T4 is an inactive thyroid hormone. If you put T4 into your body, okay, and you have normal thyroid output, 99% chance none of it will ever convert to T3 because your body just doesn't need anymore. So if you're trying to boost thyroid output, you know, it's thyroid hormone levels in your body, functional thyroid levels, active thyroid hormone levels, you want to take T3. So taking T3 with Klemeterols has that synergism of increasing fapper and pretty significantly. So the, it may, how common is sleep apnea among body builders and what can one do besides CPAP to treat sleep apnea? The only way to treat sleep apnea without a CPAP is she just a loose weight. I mean, look, I was never snore my whole life. Then I started bodybuilding and I got big. When I hit about 25260, I started snoring. When I was 300, I snored like a grizzly bear. When I lost the weight, the snoring went away. I don't snoring anymore. I had 100, whatever I am, 90 pounds. So for me, it was always a weight issue, which kind of, you know, my neck was big and it would close off your neck a little bit. Other people, I know, I know guys that have sleep apnea to 150 pounds. Those people, you put that you gain a hundred pounds of their body and they're going to die at night from sleep apnea. They need a CPAP machine. So if you want to be big and huge and eat a lot of food and hold a lot of weight and you have sleep apnea, which probably 90% of bodybuilders do because when they get that big, you got to use the machine that's all the risk to it. I mean, it sucks, but otherwise you just can't be that big. I mean, no one wants to, you know, shorten your life because you have sleep apnea. Plus if you don't sleep well, you're not going to recover from your workouts and build muscle, you know, adequately. I think I probably had to sleep longer when I was bodybuilding because I didn't use the CPAP machine. That was became kind of invoked after I stopped competing. So I would have to sleep 10 hours and I probably had to get enough sleep because I wasn't getting a restful night sleep, but I would take napster in the day. So once again, if you want to get a quality of good quality sleep, you got to get one of those machines. Sugar J. Fitness is a true your best time to make growth is coming after a show due to your body being depleted for a long period of time. Can you touch on that subject? Sure. Good question. I was just talking to a woman about that last night on the phone. And, you know, after a show because you've been depleting so long and not can bodybuild out of your body, you want to store things. Now here's the interesting thing. He wants to store everything. And once his store calories is fat, once his store glycogen, I mean glucose is carbs is glycogen, and once his store protein as muscle, we want to exploit as the ability of the body and wanting to make muscle tissue. So what we do post, you know, contest is we eat, but we eat. If the eat tons and tons of carbs, you're going to get fat, okay, as well as muscular. If you eat a lot of protein, you're going to put muscle on, okay, and that's just the way it is. Now obviously, the first thing that happens when you eat a lot of carbs is your glycogen stores get filled up. It's great. You feel like some pumped and full and strong in the gym. Once they're topped off, which takes a couple days, the rest of that was extra carbs. Now we'll start going into fat storage because your body wants to store. So you see it more in women because women have, you know, women can sometimes eat as much as many after a show. Now, if they're both, if men and women are both eating the same thing, who do you think is going to get fat in the women? Because they don't need to do many calories. So what you want to do after a show is maximize your diet. In other words, get enough protein in, get enough essential fats in your diet. And then eat enough carbs to fuel your workouts and to do what you got to do and you can max out your glycogen stores, but not enough that you're going to start getting fat. And how do you know that? Try on there. Try on there. You'll see. You'll know when you start getting too fat and then you're back off a little bit. But you will grow. I know guys, I, I, most guys after a show I clean the mouth. They do HG, they do clombered and then they're off. And, you know, obviously the stuff that you've been taking is still going to be in your system for quite a number of weeks, three to four weeks after the show. So you're going to get a rebound and nice boost no matter what, you don't have to stay on gear. Matter of fact, if you go off the gear, you get hungrier because gear is toxic to your body and it usually blunch your appetite a little bit. You might not even realize it until you call off. When you go off the gear, well, if it's something you get soft star, you can't stop eating. That's good as long as you're eating the right foods and training. Because that, that combination of the training, okay, and eating is going to build muscle at a much accelerated rate because your body wants to store things. For, remember, what you store is dependent on what you eat. Louis Green, the first day, voured somewhere your craziest thoughts when you were dieting for a show, contest prep drives people insane and we think of all sort of cookie stuff. How did you stop yourself from going mad when on contest prep? You know, I'm such a creature of habit. You know, the fact that I would have achieved me all once a week for me was like salvation. I would diet so hard knowing that when that Friday night or whatever was Saturday night came along and it was time to go to that old, you could eat sushi places that didn't even happen. That would go to every week because back in the 90s there was no, there was like one place in Manhattan that would just start doing this all you can eat sushi thing. There weren't sushi buffet as back then. And I loved this one place and I would go into the city. It was like a 40 minute, 45 minute ride from Long Island. Every single week when I would contest diet, I never missed. We would drive in there and we would go eat sushi and it didn't matter if it was a torrential snowstorm or rain. I made it into that freaking restaurant. They knew me and there I was in there every week. And that's my salad and that's what made me diet so hard during the week. If I felt like cheating or if I started getting really bad, I would leave the house. You know, I would I would clean the house. I would do anything I had to distract myself. And that's what you got to do. If you want to be the best, cheating is not an option. A design cheat meal is, but you can't just randomly say, well, you know, I deserve it. I even suffering and I'm starving and this is not right. I don't see life isn't right. It doesn't fit. Right. It's not normal to starve to death. Right. It's not normal to be hungry all the time and to dream at night about food buffet. But that's what bodybuilding is about. It's about who can endure more torture to look better than the next God. And I never wanted to get up on that stage and say, you know what, back I suffered more than I did because you know what, that was that was not an option. I was going to do everything I could to be my desk. Now, I couldn't control my structure. I couldn't control how much muscle I had achieved. Whatever I had was had to be maximized. And the things I couldn't control were diet, my tan, and my presentation. And I always try to maximize that to the best of my ability. Trying time. How do you bring out striations and the hamstrings for rear poses? I'm pretty lean everywhere else. Is it just stubborn that or opposing it's you? Well, it could be a combination of how you, you know, pose the muscle. If you can, if you can move your leg around in certain angles all of a sudden you see a time of decal, then you just not flexing it right on stage. Now, you could also, the muscle could be too flat maybe because you're not, you know, carb up enough or you could be in a depleted state. More than likely, when I see it, most people who don't have hamstring, I guess a lot of decal showing. It's one of two things. It's easy than that too. They're not lean enough, which is usually the case where they don't have enough muscle back there. You can be super crazy ripped and just have like loose skin back there and you can't figure out why there's nothing popping. Well, the reason nothing's popping is you don't have enough muscle back there. The same reason why some guys don't get glued because they lose all the fat there. They got loose skin there, but there's no muscle there or not enough muscle there to stretch that skin tight. The only way to solve that problem is to add more muscle. Let's go to M Luigi's, Dave hate to show opinions about a fight resupplement without sodium husk, is sodium husk a must. I'll tell you why Silly is a must. Because when you're talking about soluble fiber products, okay, then the highest naturally occurring source of fiber in your and foods would be O-brand, okay? To compare O-brand to Silly, you need eight grams of O-brand to equal one gram of Silly and a potency level. Therefore, if you're taking my fiber lies, which has about nine grams of Silly and preserving it, okay? You would need, nine times eight, 72 grams of O-brand to equal that one little scoop of fiber lies. No one's going to eat that much, that O-brand. You, you, you know what? Grems of carbs would come with that. So it's it's almost impossible to get what you need on a daily basis from food sources. When you see these other crappy fibers in the market that have like, you know, they have them gum in them and and and all these like these very, you know, soluble fibers, excuse me, these very water soluble fibers that kind of disappear like a bed of fiber, they're crap. They don't do anything. They have no pose. You know what the funny thing is? The number one selling fiber product in the world is is fiber one bars and people love them. Do you know that fiber one bar don't have any fiber in them? The only source of fibers is Xantham gum, which is, which is a thickening agent that people use. It doesn't have any, it doesn't have any health benefits, whatsoever to it. But that's the number one selling fiber. So it's a taste good. So people don't know, people once again, it's goes back to the old while taking a one-day multi-vitamin, I must be getting all the vitamins I need, which we all know is bullshit because there's no way you can put enough of the, the minerals and the vitamins in one pill to get enough of what a body builder or a high exercising endurance athlete would need. So it's the same thing with fiber. You need a potent fiber something to do something, okay? Take fiber lies for one, you know, for two weeks and then and then take some other fiber. You tell me if there's anything even close to it, you're not going to get the same effect from it because of the potency level of the of the of the of the sillium. It is what it is. You know, and there's different grades of sillium. So, you know, we buy a very high grade of sillium because I want it, I want this stuff to work, okay? You want it to have all the health benefits of lowering LDL cholesterol, of lowering blood sugar, of, you know, allowing, you know, waste product to move effortlessly out of the body for clearing the calling. You know, there's so many health benefits to taking a good quality fiber supplement that there's no excuse why anyone should not be taking it. If you're taking anything else before that, those of you are trying to take it, I mean, I ask you probably going to pre-work it and you're not taking, you know, a multi-vide and multi-run, a central fatty acid and fiber supplement, you're an idiot because you know what, you're actually inhibiting your body's ability to no more to be healthy, but number two, to actually build and burn fat, you know, build muscle and burn fat at optimal rates. Victor Seldana under a score of classic. I feel as though my rats from the front don't flare out, say in a front double bicep, is that just poor muscle development, insertions, any moves to help target that specifically? I mean, it usually means you're lads and I've big enough not wide enough. In some people, they don't hit the pose right and they don't pop them out enough, but when I was like, first started competing, I think it was 160 pounds in my first show and it was a middleweight. I had been training for like nine months after coming off being a long distance run for five years and I thought I was no opening my lads of, I just turned down and said, have any lads to pop that out? Doring each was a big believer in pullovers, the pullover machine to really bring the flare out of those lads, I believe that you know, pull downs and rows and somebody that it's just building sheer mass on your lads is really what's going to pop those things out and that's all there is to it, you know, the wide of your back, the better it's going to look. Now, if you're not like I said, if you're not opening up your lads, good enough, that's a different story, but most people's problem is not that mostly but don't have enough muscle there. So, Chris Kavallo has a question that you and Dan Solomon certainly address in your interview which is going to go up either today or tomorrow on rxmuscle.com, but I want to maybe expand a little bit and I'll explain. So, what do you think of the new form of judging at this year's Olympia with the audience having to say and second question, going off social media, recent posts on big ramen, do you think he will bring the condition that that filled us? Now, what I'm going to throw into that is, do you think now that this will encourage Olympia athletes, especially for this show, given that they have this scoring, that that could actually play a factor that, okay, if they're drumming up their excitement, fans are going to be a little bit more, or hey, you know what, big Ronny's in posting these pictures, he's on the front of my I'm going to vote for him, come Olympia time. I don't think the people's choice is going to have any effect on the outcome of the Olympia, I doubt to leave him be prize money. I would like to think that someone's going to put some prize money up for it, so it's like something to be proud of, but I don't think it really will. I think it's adding interest to the Olympia and I think that's always important, you know, people like anything that's different, you know what I mean? Oh, I get to vote. The problem is that only the audience is getting to vote. I don't know why they went to fielded like, you know, one of these text messaging services where you know, you could, everyone of the world, who they think is the best bodybuilder. Like American Idol. Yeah, I mean, that would have been smart to do that. That's what Dan and I talked about in the interview a lot. That was my idea to do in that. But you know, like I said, it's going to drum up interest. I don't think it's going to change anything as far as placing the fact that Ronny, you know, we're all waiting for him to show up at his best. I don't know if he can. I think he physically is capable of it, but I don't know if the people that are advising him will allow him to go low enough in bodyweight to actually get that shredded, okay, to come to the stage the way we know he needs to. Because the bottom line is that he'll never be more conditioned than Phil. Because Phil is one of the freakiest hardest guys I've ever seen and, you know, compete on in bodybuilding. But he doesn't need to be as hard as Phil. He needs to be in shape for for Ronny. So if Ronny comes in, you know, rainy, norally hard, even if it's not harder than Phil, he's got way more muscle than Phil does. So he will not be beaten. But he's leaving the door open. And you know what? Phil's laughing all the way to the bank to the tune of $400,000 every single year that he's been collecting that Olympia check. So what would happen again this year? You know, the betting line would say Phil's going to win. You know, the long shots would be like, you know, would give you the Ronny, the Dexter Jackson in there. I think Dexter Jackson can win the Olympia again. If these guys come and off, it has happened before. He won it no eight. Wouldn't it be great 10 years later at 50 years old or almost 49 years old, whatever he is, to win the Olympia again. It could happen. That's what makes the show so exciting. Coastal Reek in Gaines, thoughts for caution and what to watch out for when using Cline while on a coloric deficit. This is really not any danger to Cline but if you take into the right dose, if you're starting out with 20 micrograms twice a day, but the only side effects you're going to feel is you might get a Cline headaches or a pain in the neck. They only usually laugh about two weeks. Sometimes you get those. Sometimes you get cramping you'll you're on and right? The muscles right in the here will lock up on you and you'll be like what the hell is going on. Those are the two most common side effects. A claim makes you very strong in the gym. Two is to get to be careful. I think that's why you get cramps sometimes the muscles can drive a little too tight. Other than that, you get a little shaky like this. Your hands get a little wobble for a couple of days. Once you get past two weeks on plan, all the side effects go away. All the little dohickeys that are annoying disappear and what you find is you can take a Cline Biter on full sleep 10 minutes later. It doesn't stimulate you whatsoever. Once again, get past that two week trial period. Once you get past the two weeks, then you can start increasing the dose and I think you'd be fine. Elizabeth lifts how do you train a type one diabetic? What specific methods do you use when it comes to fat loss and muscle growth? I don't change anything. It's the same protocol. Essentially, as long as they had it take care of their blood sugars. In other words, ironically, a low-low carb diet like my ketogenic diet works really well on type ones because it reduces their insulin requirements to almost nothing. Obviously, they're going to still have to take their long acting insulin which is easy. They take that twice a day usually. The short acting insulin today normally would take with their meals would be greatly reduced because the carb content is going to be almost non-existent. They will need some because we remember protein can convert into carbs in a certain degree but they're not going to be nearly the amount of insulin that they would normally would take off season. So ketogenic diets work really well but that doesn't that's not the same that they type one diabetic can't eat carb diet. They just have to know how many grams of carbs are ready so they can calculate how much fast acting insulin to take with it. So I help a lot of type one diabetic. To me, they are pleasure to work with because they micromanage every aspect of what they do. They always know their blood sugars. They always know how much insulin they take. So to me, that's a lot of data to work with that I can manipulate that easy. If I need to reduce carbohydrates or reduce something in their diet, they know and I could talk to them about how much insulin we need to reduce and as they get leaner and leaner and their body fetke slower and lower in their food gets slower and lower they have to reduce the amount of insulin they're taking. Decorate if you're on HRT 200 and GF test per week and HCG every day and one MG of an astrazole every other day, what should that bring your testosterone level up to? It's in potten there's no formula that you could possibly use to figure that out. It's every person is in the midial. I know guys that can take HCG and their testosterone will be through the roof and I know other guys take the HCG and their testosterone's low and they both using the same source of HCG. So everyone's value response to those those those releasing peptides or releasing hormones that you want to call them in different ways. So I could never quantify what their level with the person's levels would be. Swaggy T when it comes to old school body building the golden era I know most of them did super low carb high fat high protein diet. How are they able to look so full for contest and shoots on low-terno carbs? Well they ended up as they were basically doing similar to ketogenic diets they just would eat a lot of red meat back then they really didn't know about essential fatty acid they would just do a ton of red meat and butter and stuff like that and create heavy cream and they would carb up at the end. I mean that's what I put someone on a key and not everyone knows I don't put everyone on a ketogenic diet and not everyone needs it but if you're on a ketogenic diet or even if you're on a low carb diet at the end we carb you up. So carbs loading is just putting glycogen into the muscle when glycogen which is the stored form of glucose goes into the muscle it pulls water with it. So when you carb up you can eat no carbs for the whole year and if you carb up two weeks before a show you're going to look just as good as if you ate carbs the entire year it doesn't matter. glycogen stores which is what causes that fullness in the muscle is like gasoline in your car a gas tank in your car. If the car is not running on empty all the time you know you might run out and you might get some some of the car may slow down you might have to add some gas here in there okay but if you fill the tank up after even a year of running it low nothing it doesn't change how the car performs the car will still perform the same. We've gone questions before regarding controlling acne but Dave the coke wants to know some insight as to what to do for acting control both on and off cycle. Well you know everyone was everyone breaks out differently I suffered with acne for many years because I didn't have it grossly but when I would take a certain steroids I guess it would get worse and no one wants an nasty skin and no one wants to ask you to skin on stage and you know I eventually did act to look at you and it helped a lot. I still broke out but I didn't break out with big, big oils and stuff like that. So the question is how do you control the acne? Well you know a lot of guys I've been putting on my test-alize product which has some DHT blunting agents so it doesn't eliminate DHT but it reduces it and usually guys break out because when they start a cycle it blows that DHT levels through the roof die hydrant testosterone and that's what's responsible for acne. So if you can reduce that a little bit naturally we're not eliminating at totally by taking drugs like finasteride okay you get usually the acne goes away pretty easily assuming that you're conducting yourself and taking showers and keeping clean. So I have a lot of guys especially young guys and their teens that are using test-alize and not just for the testosterone boosting effects and the estrogen long effects but because it reduces DHT and it solves the acne problem a lot of women take it for that same reason and for hair a lot of women tend to sit out when they're bodybuilding because maybe it boosts their natural testosterone natural DHT levels and then someone will take drugs that they shouldn't be taking but the test-alize seems to also temper that DHT effect thus allowing the hair to become thicker and reducing you know the incidence of hair loss. So you know for what it's worth try it that would be my first line of the fence if you're having acne issues you're having hair loss it should try test-alize three pills twice a day if that doesn't work after a couple weeks then you could think about using stronger drugs like finasteride but I wouldn't need your use those right off the bat if you can avoid it. Take a couple more questions barbarian the your view on giant sense from muscle control and would you regularly change up your exercises? The old Milo Sarsha of Giantsets. I you know I actually like Giantsets I think they're good I just don't wouldn't use them every single week you know for limited periods of time maybe four to six weeks and then and then go back so I mean the problem of Giantsets is they're pain in the ass because you've got to run around the whole gym you have to make sure that you have four machines a five machines open that no one's using them it could be it could become too stressful I did a lot of super setting and drop setting when I would when I would compete you know I would do like let's say I'm doing uh bicep cable curls I might then go do try set of overheads immediately after no rest you know or I might do if I'm on the bench I might bench price three fifteen for six reps strip off a plate to twenty five for another four reps strip off a plate one thirty five for another four to six reps and and that would be the end of that would be the the the the benching workout and so what I was basically doing is I was lifting heavy initially then to get more reps rather than try to do four straps or try to you know just strain with the wrong muscle legs lower the weight it's still felt super heavy because I just finished a set with a heavier amount of weight and I'm blowing as many of those and then when that was too heavy I would lower it again so I was I was almost doing four straps but in a drop set type of situation so it's always a good idea to mix up your training I can get people a template of here's a great workout but you should always tweak around the exercises change the order change the tempo change how many you do you know sometimes drop set sometimes super set it um and that that's just called variation in training and that's what usually leads to the most muscle growth. Inspector America Dave on fifty years old in general is there a way for a person to improve recovery ability outside of supplements, nutrition so on and so forth any training methods or techniques each is just. You know as you get all there it's hard to recover you shouldn't be training as many days a week um obviously taking supplements like World War Moll and testosterone and some I'm going to help you recover quicker no doubt about sleeping more is going to help you recover better um eating the right diet is going to help you recover better so if you can maximize all those areas I just mentioned you should be able to recover with no problem. Last question from Lee Axe and how do you coach your clients who constantly fail on their nutrition plans do you just say okay keep going or can you start to tell them off. Um you know if I if I feel that they are doing their cheating and they're not following I have guys and I look I did a rant on this and I still I'm still getting guys that are using sugar free catchups and they're using another guy you know you know I like a dobo you know spices you know but I'm a diet if you read the ingredient list on a dobo spices the third ingredient is sugar okay so people make such stupid mistakes and then they wonder why they're not losing weight so you got to really read all the food packages that you have don't just look at the new trickials look at the ingredient list read what's in there so you see what's in there just because it says you know less than one gram of carbon label doesn't mean there's not sugar in there it could be a look it could be a gram in there and the serving size might be ridiculously slow or low and so no one's using one serving size they're using five serving sizes and before you know it you're consuming you know an actually 10 20 grams of carbs you know with your meal that you didn't even know you were getting in so I think a lot of people sabotage themselves if it's a person who's just cheating and they actually even admitted to you and I have to plant like that too I'm like look you're not going to do well at the show and you got no one to blame but yourself so you can either skip the show or do the show knowing that you didn't give you best and then next time around you know you'll you'll buckle down and you'll be a hundred percent and you can't be emotionally invested in it in the sense that you're going to get upset because someone's not listening to you it's their life it's their option all you can do is give them the reality of situation they could either embrace that and try to be better next time or they can say f you I don't agree with you and and leave but they're only person they're lying to themselves that's going to do for this episode of Ask Dave again brought to you by species nutrition visit species nutrition.com for Dave love oh and our producer Tyler sure I'm so deep for rookie we'll see you next week

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, so it's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car pop tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Pulumbo, and today is Thursday, June 10th, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Earlier today, I was exchanging emails with a client, and he said something that stuck out that I wanted to share with you guys. He said practice makes progress, which is one of those weird and two-of statements that simple and profound at the same time. And it also does a pretty good job of summing up this clip of Chris Bum said. He did a 7-plate PR and deadlift a few weeks into his contest prep, which wouldn't have been possible that he hadn't spent so much time practicing the heavy basics during his off season. Eventually, everything comes full circle. And if working this stuff back into his program ends up being what gives him that extra 1% edge he needs to make it through straight, well, that practice will have been well worth it. I want to stay on that concept of practice making progress for this segment because I think there's another angle to this that's important to cover as well. When people think about practice, more often than not, it's probably something physical that comes to mind. But I wanted to point out that greatness is a practice too. You don't want to cheat right, it's the way Sydney Gilland does without dedicating yourself to the process of progress. You can make the argument that Sid is operating at a higher level than any athlete in the entire industry right now, male or female. And the numbers back up that because she's actually the longest ten year to limpia champion in any division. When she started on this journey a few years ago, the entire landscape of the division was completely different. But here she is now surrounded by new faces and new places, still standing alone at the top. And at the end of the day, none of that is possible without the practice of making progress. And that's what this is all about. Figure out the stuff that works, double down on it, and then double down again and let the rest fall into place. It's a super simple formula for success, but it worked for Patrick Moore when he won the Cal Pro a few weeks ago. And it's still working now. If you saw the training clip that you released a few days ago and thought that it just looked like more of the same, that's because it was. And that was the whole point. He knows what he needs to do, so he just goes out and does it without trying to complicate things. It's the shortest distance between two points, which is why you can almost draw straight line from Cal Pro to the Olympia and already know how this whole thing is going to play out. You know how Instagram will sense a certain image. So you have to click approve before you can actually see it. Well, they might want to think about doing that for everyone competing in the open class at the IFVV Chicago Pro, because scrolling across some of the Hunter LeBrona content might be disturbing to viewers. A few days ago, he released new update photos that were taken by a certain Hall of Fame bodybuilder who happens to the Shad this same last name. He looked as good as we've seen him at any point in his career. He's big, he's crisp and he looks the way you'd expect someone with top five Olympia ambitions to look heading into their season. They're great. Once have a way of making it look easy and there aren't too many people out there who are making it look easier than Hunter LeBrona is right now. And that does a few at another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

It's Friday the 13th here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Palombo, your scary host and it's July 13th 2018 and let's find out what's going on in that world of body building in fitness. I don't know about you but if I just won my pro debut one of the biggest shows in the country, I'd probably still be sleeping off a legendary hangover in the middle of the right field bleachers at Rigoli Field in Chicago. Luckily for him, Wesley Vissers and I don't seem to have that in common. This week we saw the rookie star releases first official post show update less than a week after setting the classic physique world on fire with his huge win at the Chicago pro. According to Vissers and his team, there's still a lot of work to be done between now and the Olympia if you want to be competitive but with less than two months left until it's go time you wonder if there's enough time for them to actually do enough that they can impact on the final outcome of the contest. Anyone who watched the NBA finals this year knows what it feels like to see a tsunami come through and just wipe out everything in its path. And when you look at what Ashley Colt-Wars has been doing, heading into this year's Olympia, you can't help but start to get a little bit of that same feeling. After last week's massacre up at the Vancouver pro, Colt-Wars are starting to look like a complete juggernaut heading into the big return to the Olympia stage in September. Over the last five years is so we've probably seen more turnover at the top of the bikini division than we have in any other division in the pro league. So I don't think it would come as too big of a shock if she showed up and became the first women in history to win back the bikini Olympia title. Sometimes in sports you find yourself sucked into rooting for some of the athletes who are just legitimately good people. And you won't find many athletes in the two-twelfth division who are better people than the reigning and defending Arnold Classic champ, Kamala Garmin. Right now on Warganis Camp are knee-deep in preparation for their first career Olympia. We're hoping to put himself on the short list of guys in line to see Flex Lewis's spot after he vacates the throne. Within the last week or so we've slowly started to see Kamala start rounding back into that first class championship form who had back at the start of the season. So if you can get close to bringing 100% of that look into this year's Grand Finale, he should be right there in the mix for a top five finish when it's all set and done. These coasts have been getting pounded with a press of heat for the last week and a half, but a mature of mother nature could even keep up with the flames that bikini stand out dare a Diaz has been throwing lately. Last and a week after putting together another brilliant top five effort at the bank who reproved the New York native certainly hasn't wasted any time jumping right back into action. On Tuesday new updates began to trickle out from sources inside team Diaz that show one of the divisions New Breakout Sars looking as sharp as ever. In all three of her shows this year Diaz has been right there on the verge of locking up an Olympia qualification. So if she could hang in there and grind it out one more time to finally get over the hump it will have been worth every single moment of the struggle once she steps out under the bright lights of the Vegas venue. Back in the 90s Sammy the Bolgrvano made a name from self as one of the most notorious mafia hitman of all time when he rolled over during the John Guadi trial. But since he's been officially retired more than two decades now, maybe it's time for Big Rami and the Camel crew to get into the hurt business. This week we got our hands on some new updates of the Big Man straight from the Camel crew CEO, Beta Badae, who seems to think that this might be the year we see this guy come in and interrupt history by stopping Phil Heath's quest to Tylene Haney and Ronnie Coleman's record of H.T. Olivia's Denny's tracks. Truth be told pictures might be worth a thousand words but at the end of the day the only word that matters here is win. As in Will Rami, the good enough this year to actually win the title. But no matter how good the pictures look, we still won't have any idea who writes the next chapter in Bodybuilding History until this thing finally plays itself out in September. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On Day, Pollenbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Music Yes, this is back by popular demand. It's guru Amina Lai, the man scientist, whatever you want to call him. I mean welcome back first of all and thank you guys. Thank you. Second of all, I know you've got a show coming up you're competing in. The master is North American, huh? I'm going to give competing one more attempt because I just always felt like, you know, well, I'm caught. I mean, there is no qualification really for the masters, but yeah, it's going to be masters and it's classic physique. It's something I think I stand a chance in, you know, bodybuilding I've ever stood a chance in. So this is something I might be able to stand a chance in. How old are you now? I'm 45. Okay, so this is, this is like your, one of the ironic if you got a pro card at like 45 if you're taking off like what 20 years you haven't been doing this. I mean, I think I think that is just kind of part of what will be ironic about it. There's so many other things that would fall into play. I mean, the idea we're really mentioned is to you, but I've had a series of surgeries over the past several years. One of them was a next-usen five and six from a degenerative disc disease that I have. I'm hanging. I inherited from my father. And when they, after the next surgery, they're like, you know, you won't be able to lift your son up. So don't worry about lifting anything over your head and, you know, I, I recently, then lifted a 405 again. Wow. Squat it 265 for five again. And, you know, for me, just to be able to do that, just period at by age, not to mention the fact that I had surgery just a couple years ago. I think it would be very ironic if I win this. And if I do, it would probably be a number of factors other than zombies. Did, do you, um, are you afraid when you lift in the gym now? Because after you get a surgery like that, it's so severe. It's like, yeah, you worry that, hey, what if I screw it up? And, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to wind up even worse. And then it's, I only have myself to blame for it. I, I was worried. I asked my doctor on multiple occasions about the hardware that they had. That they had it. There's titanium, used in my, and my neck. And he was very adamant on saying that no amount of weight that I lift is going to make it move. And then I, I hinted on some of the weights that I wanted, that I wanted to conquer. And he says that's fine. He goes, you know, you may have inflammation. But that wasn't really so much what ended up being the issue that issue was recovery. Right. Being able to recover from workouts that typically I would be able to do and recover from. I don't think it even has to do with the gear, you know, I just, when you're older, you just can't recover as well as you used it. Are you training last for this show that you've done in the past like taking maybe more days off during the week? I have been. But there, there's been a slow progression with that. And that slow progression leads to basically right about now where things increase to cardio twice a day from once a day to, you know, training a little bit later in the day. So I can get some hard, hard fast peppering in. And, you know, I mean, it's hard for me being a guru to get advice from people, you know. One of the people that I get to call and show my pictures too is the IFBB pro Dominic Cardo. And he's, he's been kind of like a friend to me and this helping me out letting me know, like, you know, you need to be more conditioned. You need to drop the water, you need to forget about thinking you're flat and, you know, eating carbs, which if you're, you know, training yourself, it's easy for you to say, I need a refeed or whatever. But when someone else takes a look at you and says, no, you need to drop more water and, you know, stay on the low carbs. Then you got to really assess it when it's somebody that knows what they're talking about. Like if you were to tell me the same thing. Sure. Are you, are you doing the same type of drug regimens that you've used in the past on your clients? Well, you know, I got to say that I think I've been a little bit unfair with some of my clients as far as the injectable routine. I attempted to, but I've noticed that it's just too much for you. It's too much, man. I know people are like, what does he mean? It's too much. I'm like, well, for one, I really wanted to find out exactly what was hurting. If there was something hurting, what was going to me, stuff. So I broke everything down into each drug, you know, so master on tremble on, you know, a prima ball and every different thing that I'm taking test propinate all those. And I look at each syringe and I'm thinking of myself, I don't, I don't really see how this is going to make me win. Like it's not. What's going to make me win is really cutting back on the eating of the carbs, doing more cardio, doing the stairs more for me. So you're a low carb guy, too. I'm not, but I need to be. And I think everybody does. I agree. Everyone, you know, people you know, and argue. Listen, the difference is that is, and I think we get to what, you know, my hell week and am I going to do my own hell week? I think is what we kind of like are getting towards. And it's like, what I be able to actually handle it and why did I create it? Why did I create it was not for other people? It was because I came in second at a show as a middle late at 18 right before the DC grand prix. It was two weeks and I really weren't to do something drastic to look better. I looked really good at 172. I came in second as a middle late and I was full and I looked good, but I didn't, I wasn't shredded. And, you know, I did this crazy hell week and I dropped down from 172 to 153.7 in the morning, all our plans. It was when we were in the morning though. Yeah, I was pretty much the one to stop. And, you know, I was peeled. I was peeled. Other crazy people thought I was smoking crack in the eyes. My friends were like, why does this face look like that? What's wrong with that? And so this hell week is kind of what I put myself through hell because I came in second. This is how I was a teenager, man. I came in second and I'm not going to go through hell or I will, I will, I will, I want to win or else. And so I did something that I absolutely knew nobody else would do. It was, it was insane, it was what it was. And then as a result of the way I looked, the first person that wanted me to help him was done long. He was there in the audience cheering for me, which was great because I had him, RJ. He, they were off from the gym, his whole crew, Kamali was there. I mean, it was great, they were all cheering. And then after that it was like, okay, well, you know, he really looked good for a kid. And then since then, it never really, I never really had that conditioning because I started helping other people. They went through the hell week and did really well, but also at the same time they weren't in shape like you were. Like when we saw you at the juniors, we were like, damn, each read it. And everybody was like, the guys that knew me were like, what do you think you did? I mean, what do you think you did? What dioradiest you think you did? No, they were all asking me, man, because we saw you were like, you know, he, his condition was so, you were so grainy. And at that time, you know, we didn't really see that too much even on the pro level. So it was very rare. And you know, I was wondering whether you did something crazy like I did. And then come to find out, no, nobody really did anything like that. And you know, I don't know if it didn't work on some people sometimes. I got to tell you there, there's like Abbas Kitami who I helped on multiple occasions. We did this multiple times. It did work great twice. It worked fantastic. Two other times it didn't work as well. And they were other contributing factors. And I don't want to really mention them right now. But it really has to be done precisely. And I think we could get into like what it involves like the thing. Yeah, well, you know, it's a crazy work ethic. But I think it works best on guys, you know, like a little on the, like the, the chubby side, like the Kamali. You know what I mean? There's a little bit or a little bit behind. Right, where is like, okay, for me, like I'm normally have really lean ass, like all the time. Like I have a Christmas tree that shows pretty much it's there, you know. And that's cool, but when it gets to my glutes and my hamstrings forget about it, man. They've got, they've got all the fat there of a 14 year old kid, man. I got to get rid of that shit. And so that means, you know, that any extra jeans, you got to up those. I got to drop all the stuff that's romanticizing. And I got to, you know, up the T3, even though that's not something that I would do, but in order to get rid of that, I got to do all the things that you got to do. And it's when people like me who don't have a lot of muscle mass, that's really what it boils down to, okay. Top ourselves into musins, I'm not full. No, that's bullshit, man. You didn't train hard enough. Well, I train my chest and I train to hard enough. If I train it heavy enough, I train my body heavy enough to know that if I, if I do shrink down to get rid of the fat, you know, the water misplacement is really what's going to be where it's at. I know when we talk about a diuretics and, and I talk about drugs like injectable asics, you, you're probably, say, well, there's no water being spared when you use a drug like injectable asics, which is the reason why it's created. It's created for pulmonary, deema, you're coming to the hospital, you're, there's tons of water around your heart. They put injectable asics and you put your dying and it gets rid of all the water in your body, cutting through your heart. And I want to state this because I have, I have a respect for the listeners and, and for everybody. This is something that I did and I've done on other people with myself right there. I do not recommend anybody trying this. And I want to say, I do think it's stupid. I really do. I, no, I mean, I've got, I've got a beyond, I mean, because I don't want, I don't want somebody to, to say that was this all necessary, this, that and the other. Probably not. Probably another month is sucking it up and dieting really, really hard. And, you know, utilizing stuff like good fats instead of carbs, really is where it's at, okay? But you really got to fight through that mentally and it's really difficult, and I'm not trying to give the cough out. But it's really difficult when kids drive you crazy, okay? I've never felt the craving to want to have something just simple like cream of rice, just because I want my son to stop talking for a minute or something, you know? And it's, it's, it's really, it's bad, man, because I've never, I've never really, I've never really, I always thought like I could psychologically push through it. So one of the things that was difficult for me even when I was younger was being able to cut out the carbs. And at that time, we didn't really know about fats. They, we did not in our side. On our side, we were doing just basically clean, start your carbs and low fat protein and, you know, insulin and stuff like that. That was off season. But when I came to getting ready for the shows, it was still just more cardio. We did clean carbs. We didn't really know about fats. Honestly, I didn't really know about fats too much until Tony told me what he learned from you. And then I learned a lot more about it from watching stuff. And I wasn't really doing fats back when you saw me in 95 between ashes. I didn't know about them then really. I was, I kind of learned about them in the fall. But probably 96 was the first year, because I over-died it for the USA. And I didn't realize what the, I couldn't figure out why it looked so bad. And then, I didn't really look bad. It was like two depleted. I was probably 10 pounds lighter than I should have been. And then for the nationals, I think it was eight weeks later. I just up my fats. You know, I was eating a lot of red meat and hamburgers and something like that. And soared fish and nuts. And I cut my carbs way back and I looked amazing. Like it was like my body just transformed. That's when I really knew. I had known it was the fats were necessary to grow. I didn't realize you should keep them in for dieting. He's nowhere never did that before. And that's when I really started first really discovering what they were all about. So yeah, I think you're right. I think, you know, to get in shape, you got a suffer. I did a whole heavy muscle radio show this past week. If you watched, listen to it or anyone else out there. Let's do it. Basically, just ranting for probably a good hour on why people today are just not willing to suffer. And if you suffer, and you're willing to go to the point of death, you know, I'm not in that literal death where you're taking drugs to kill yourself. I'm talking about suffering where you feel like you're going to die. Okay. That's how you should feel all the time. The fact that you sit down and it hurts, that means you're lean. Okay. That's how I would feel for the last two weeks before my show. Like I didn't want to sit on anything that was hard. Even a bed felt like too hard for me sometimes at night. And I would twist and turn because I just wasn't comfortable because that's how lean I was. That's where you want to go. A lot of people are not willing to do that. I just was texting with flex Lewis before about something trivial. But then we started talking about, you know, suffering and he's like, you know, I got it. It was 12 pounds to make the way class for the two 12 limpia. I don't know. I'm going to do it. It goes, I do it every year. But I said, look, you're willing to go where other people are not willing to go. And that's why you win the Olympia every year. You're willing to suffer. It's not like he's willing to take more drugs. That's stupid. He's willing to suffer because the drugs don't get you lean. So that it's the removal of the food and the cardio and the actual physical suffering. Because like you said earlier, most people when they feel that suffering coming on, what do they do? Oh, I got it. I'm going to carve up. I'm going to carve it. Well, they would carve. You know, you know, back in the day, I mean, just being honest, you know this because we're older now. It's different. You know, I think you've been helping that aspect. You know what? Put the hunger away, right? Yeah. Because you didn't think about it. You were just, you were numb to the feeling of whether or not you were hungry. Yeah. And at the same time because it had that, I don't feel anything. And it didn't suppress the respiratory system. How? You would still be able to work out or do cardio or do whatever in a fasted state. And that's, that's difficult to do without something psychologically. Some people can do it and there's no question about it. But no, when you do you add in the day of carbs every now and then? Yeah, yeah. I mean, as as people need it, I do it. When they just super flat. You made a good point. One is free up the new bathing thing again. You know, new bathing is if you're a drug addict, like you're like a narcotics addict, it's the worst drug for drug addicts because it doesn't make you that high. And it itself limits itself. So you take too much of it. You actually just feel sick. You don't, you, it doesn't make you any higher. So for a guy who's looking for a high, it's probably not a good drug. But for body, those it's a great drug because it gives you a little bit of a low grade feeling of okayness. It takes away your hunger, the problem is it's super addictive. So, you know, and then, you know, but that's not just that it's just if begins at whatever the cost is for a bottle. I don't know. Let's just say, let's say $60 a bottle. Okay. But then when you end up doing $60 every other day, it gets, it gets out of hand. And then there's another problem with it. It is don't be a person. And I'm saying this because this relates to me. That's one personality that should stay away from is, is someone who has an addiction type mentality for a person. Right. Without a doubt. It's a matter of fact, they shouldn't be on steroids in my opinion. Okay. You just walk in parallel with that. Yeah, there isn't really room for it. But also people that want to experiment. And the reason I'm seeing this is because Boston is one of those people. Okay. And, you know, you don't want to be somebody that you, you might feel, I was one of those people that felt like, you know, let's see what all these things in due chains book do. Let's see, you know, like, and that's where, you know, New Maine was one of them. But that's also where the injectable ASICS came in. I mean, he was, he was somebody that didn't speak negatively about it. Actually, it was, it was deemed one of the better diuretics by him. And I, and I can tell you why I feel that way. Who said, who, by hope? Dan Doochane. Oh, you've been to shame. Love that because it was so predictable. That's exactly why I like it. Yeah. I mean, it's just take the water out the very, very last minute. Well, you don't, the, the key, the key. Okay. You would have to use slow. Okay. Yeah. The problem with the idea, once again, the problem with, with injectable ASICS, and you can go, I don't, I'm going to let you talk about your whole routine in a minute, is that you don't know if you're losing potassium or sodium, so every, you have to supplement. Potassium is like, too many variables in there. And the problem is that most body balls are retarks. Okay. When it comes to figuring out mathematics. Absolutely. You know, if you're going to take, you know, a certain amount of CCs or a certain amount of milliliters, they would take double a triple that, not purposely, but because they just don't know how to figure things out. It happens to people all the time. I can't even believe how many people can't measure and figure out simple math equations. I have to do the math for these people, my clients. Or they help the wrong dose potassium. That's the thing. You can kill yourself with that. So it's easier to give someone a half a die as I, and you know, hey, you know what? If you need more, you get a little more. If they cramp, you know, it's a sodium cap. So it just makes things a lot easier and safer. But, you know, Dan liked to make things complicated because he was, he was into the experimenting and he liked the whole science of it. You, you, you, you, you, you have an extreme, diuretic routine. Use on certain people. Now, you don't use it on everyone. Explain what it was. And why do you felt it was so crazy? I, I think, I think that nobody else has done anything like this because we're going to have a whole body else has done anything like this because when I came up with it, it was an extreme. Everything was an extreme measure. And so basically, you know, like you're saying, I think we, I think we lost the kid. I mean, that first second, what's here, we got him back. If he does Skype for us on us. And we'll try to get him back. Maybe Tyler can call him back. While I'm talking. Yeah, but back in the day, people did a lot of crazy stuff. I mean, pulled the lat on stage had a number of diuretic issues. I think one of them was from taking injectable, uh, Lacex once and he just did too much. Or he took double when he should have, he didn't realize. You know, so you could really screw yourself up. So what we're trying to do is I'm trying to, we want to give responsible information here. But, you know, let's, you know, I mean, has his little routine. I wouldn't recommend anyone like he said do it alone. Um, I probably don't think it's, I don't think it's necessary. I think if you're in shit, there's no reason to do anything about extreme. But sometimes people fall behind and, uh, this some extreme measures need to be, you know, engaged. We'll let everyone find out he'll tell everyone his retain and I'll critique and tell him how nuts he is. But, by and by, I don't think he uses, uh, on most people. Now, you know, when you think about, you know, contests prep and you think about that last couple of days, it's ridiculous to think that you have to do extreme, extreme things. And I'm always a big believer in it and you've heard me say this before. If an April don't fix it, if you look great or make out, don't start doing 90 things because what happens is when you do that, in variable, you're going to screw yourself up. So the last you could change that last week, the more important. Now, we got to mean back, I mean, I was just kind of telling people, given them a little background on the whole routine. Who was the first person you used this extreme, uh, diuretic routine on? Um, I used something similar to this on Don Long, but it was with Al-Dak-Zai, or the, it was without Dak-Zai, and I think it was with Diyazai or Max-Zai for the, uh, Junior Nationalist. By the way, I wanted to just tell you, after the last interview, we did Don Long text to me and said, he absolutely did not work with you ever in the offseason. He never took insulin under your guidance. You know, he's, he's, he's, he's, that's what, just tell you what he said. That's fine. Uh, you just, you know, people have their own business, their own thing, and, you know, sometimes that rubbs people the wrong way, but it doesn't really matter. No, he's not that he said that he never used the drugs. He said he never, you never helped them to use the drugs. So I don't know if that's true or not. I'm just, I'm sort of, I'm sort of an authentication wanted to spew it out. You know, he, he, he got, he got upset when he saw Craig come to town. You know, he, he wasn't happy about that. Oh, he didn't like the fact that you were helping Craig to. He didn't like, he didn't like that I was helping Craig. I didn't like the fact that he didn't put me in flex. Um, you know, it was just one of those things. Oh, so it was like, it was like a bad, blood type of thing going on. I mean, you know, it, it, it, it's hard to really say there was a lot of other things that we're going on that they're like behind the scenes type stuff that was happening. Um, that kind of made everything kind of go its own way, you know. Craig was a bad seed when he came around. That wasn't good. Ultimately, you know, I mean, there was a stroke here at time where things were okay. But then he was coming to visit Richard and it was already when he was at a bad time setting people up and things like that. Um, but you know, work with someone is like, what we're doing like now, you know, well, when you're someone like Don and you've already worked with them and you give them a plan and you tell them this is what you do and they follow it. You know, but it's a difference of opinions, I guess, and it really doesn't really matter. The fact is that this is around the time when insulin was being used. Right. And all used it. Don used it. Come all the nose and everybody else knows that Don was someone that I was working with. And for whatever reasons that we had, it never really came out and flexed that we're working together. Right. Craig on the other hand, didn't have any issues with publicity or anything like that. Um, flew me out to, to Venice when he moved out there to do a photo shoot with Flex Magazine and introduce me to the bodybuilding world as his coach. And at that point, you were talking about insulin protocols that I was using on other people. Okay. We'll just leave it at that. Other people. And it worked on all of them. All right. Let's go back to let's get to the track and we can do other shows on the different protocols and some of that for different drugs. Let's stick to dioratics. What? What was the extreme? Uh, dioratic protocol and what would be the conditions under you? What you, you know, in other words, what kind of a person would you use it on? What would the situation be that you'd implot you didn't do that on everyone I assume, right? No, I didn't. Um, well, without, without, without calling out anybody that I don't say anything. Just tell us what the routine was. Yeah. Okay. So, once I was able to get my hands on injected elases, that's the first key right there. It wasn't even available. Most people wouldn't even get it for you. Even if they knew what it was, you couldn't get it out of pharmacy. That's the key. You could not get it out of pharmacy because it was injectable. They wouldn't order it. It was only available on ambulance or in a hospital. Usually in ER usually in ER pharmacy. That's where they kept it. So, you had to really have some good connection just to get it back then. Well, that connection fell into my lap. Some time around 92, 93. And I started using it in 94 on somebody for a competition. And it worked really well. And basically the protocol had to do with an extreme depletion. The, the, the, the, the diuretic protocol that I'm talking about now evolved from doing oral Diuretic to the injectable protocol. So, he evolved. The original depletion was still the same depletion. That's stable. Right. The most known manipulation beefed up, but it was based on the same plan, which was we were up, up, up, up, up, the task him before the show. Take out that tone a little bit, you know, lower the sodium, pull the water in, and then use that little bit of diaside. That was pretty much what it was then. The 100 rep card depletion zero carbs through the body into the point where it would be able to pull in the carbs. So that, you know, you know, you would, you would, the bleak light engine in the gym. Obviously, so that your body could raise the light engine in face and you could absorb carbs better. And sodium load. So it kind of looked really high like the tables of salt. It was grossed. So when would you cut sodium and when would you put your diet in these dioretics in there? What was the most interesting reason? The sodium was so high. Literally, I was having people put a tablespoon of salt and some water like this and just drink it and, you know, drink some more water behind it. So there was a lot of salt being used. And it took usually about three days for the salt to leave the body. At least three days full day. There's three and a half days prior to the show. There was an all-out shift from sodium loading to an all-out shift in sodium depletion. Okay. Then let's say, for like the first day, that's just focusing on the depletion of sodium. Not really dioretics, glycogen loading is fine. The second day is when you start pulling the water in and start adding in the potassium that you're going to later get rid of with inject the glycics. So the second day you start loading on potassium. And I'm not talking about potassium that you buy from the grocery store or the GMC or whatever. I'm talking about pharmaceutical potassium that is made for people that take oral drugs like LASICs or Bumics or Luke Diarratic like, you know, demodex or anything like that. And so this is a time release potassium chloride, which releases over about 8 to 12 hours and there are differences strengths. Some of these also are potassium chloride that you can add to a water and you can drink it and it's immediate potassium chloride. But the key is it's potassium chloride. And they're usually go by K, do work, K, light, K, lower, slow K. Those are the different ones that we have in America. And so at this point, I just want to stop you for a second. I don't mean to interrupt. I just want to say, if you take slow K and you're not taking a diorated, because it's potassium loss, you can be in big trouble. And what people tell that? Well, let's say this beforehand, let's identify with that big trouble. That big trouble is a heart attack. Right. Yes, because the potassium will make your heart stop. Okay. And so basically what happens is we have a small window that you can load the potassium before it becomes dangerous. Right. At that point, then you have time release potassium in you. And because you're posing every time you eat, you can feel whether your hands are cramping or anything like that. The minute your body doesn't release when you flex. And like I said, you're flexing every couple of hours. So it's the best gauge that we have. Sure. And flex is hard as you can. The minute you don't release when you do like if you do a front double advice that and you don't when you release, it still tries to pull on you. That means your potassium levels are through the roofs. And at that point right then, that's when the injectable laser is actually needed. So it's probably the potassium loadings more dangerous than the injectable laser. But at this point, what happens is potassium chloride holds the water in the cell. And the injectable laser excluses out anything that's so cute. Now it is a loop diuretic, which means it gets rid of potassium and sodium. It's going to assist in the sodium depletion. And as far as the potassium loading that we did, it'll shave off what was extra. And you'll still be have enough potassium but not any extra. Now that the trick is, is how many times do you repeat this process before you step on stage? Every time you do it, each time you do it, you're not going to be able to have a bowel movement. So you're drying out your intestines, you're not, you can't have a bowel movement. So you have to have all of that done and all the loading done before you introduce any sort of diuretics. Because the minute you do, I mean, I don't know about you with the most people that I've worked with, you're constipated. Yeah, what I do is I have them use my fiber-lies product, the whole diet. But I have them increasingly three times a day when they start using diuretics. And that seems to help them go a little better. Because it keeps, it pulls fluid into the intestinal tract and makes everything move a little better. I found that that seems to work really well. It was something that I used, that I used at the end because I always feel like I couldn't move my bowel. It was something that I fought with my whole life as an athlete right before a race. Because I used to run road races when I was a track runner in the morning. And I could never get to my body going to the bathroom and drove me fucking nuts. And the same reason because you dehydrated in the morning. And there's just no time to really hydrate. So when I was bodybuilding, I was discovering the same thing. That's why I loved when I moved to the portion of my career where I was competing usually on Friday nights. At the night show, pre-judges were great because I was able to get everything moving by the nighttime. It's really hard when you have to get on stage at 9 a.m. to get everything moving. Like you said, but these days I re-bodyved at the night before three times. The day before seems to work really well at doing that. And you don't get any sleep usually the night before. Yeah, no. It's be realistic, you know. You're either peeing all night if you took a diet or you're just hamped up because you're about to compete or you've got a very good You know, it's one thing. And that actually interferes with the bowel. You know, it's not to tell you get a chance to relax and calm down that your your insights can actually release, you know. I tell everyone to take a, I'm not into sleeping pills. I tell everyone to make some zanx the last couple days just to just to make sure you sleep at night. You're right. The water and the carbs don't go to the right compartments when you're not resting. But you have too much cortisol around. The stress hormone. Yeah. You know, I mean, if you're stressed out, people don't realize it. You know, that's why I'm going early. I'm going, I'm going a little over a week early just so that I can deplete there and not have my cortisol levels high. And not worry about any of that because, you know, around the kids and the wife and all that. And, you know, all the school you got the teacher parent conference and they each who have to do if you're here, you can't just ditch out on them, you know. And and or else you look like a loser to the teachers. That's the worst thing. You know, it's not like. Hey, well, I do you two, yeah, whatever, you're, you're not a good dad, you know. Yeah, yeah. I'll have a third. I think if I could have people that didn't have that that that stubborn. And in fact that they can't get rid of or sub to water or whatever, you know, like around the glutes or some people just don't get their lower abs, Tited and something like that. You know, this may be again, I'm not suggesting this because it can kill you. So how much do you inject? How much less, like you're injecting? Okay, so each ampoule is 20 milligrams to MLs. I think they're 10, I believe this is right. They're 10 milligrams per ML. One CC will not make you crap if you do like one slow K before it like, you know, and it has to be in you, okay? That's, that's okay, but that's just one isolated incident, okay? If you potassium low and your fingers lock up or your toes lock up when you're flexing, then you need two CCs. You need it. You have to get rid of some of that potassium. Now there's a good and a bad side to that. The bad side is of course you have to do all this, which is all on itself, like I said, it's stupid, okay? Now, I mean, if this makes the difference between winning and losing, and we've got to talk about this for a set for the people out there to understand about the genetics thing, okay? Because I don't have good genetics, my brother does, there's a big difference, you do, you know what I mean? And so when someone like me wants to kind of like compete and look as good as older brother, you know, I have to pull out all the tricks that he doesn't need, you know? So there's an automatic, you already have an understanding that you have to do something in order to step on that stage of look as good as these other guys who have a better body to begin with. And like I was in the other, the gym the other day watching Phil Heath work out. I mean, we just happened to be training hamstrings when I was training a cloth. And I don't know what happened, I don't know who he was talking to, but at the end of his work out, or he stopped his work out, and was talking to someone, I look because I was wanted to know when he was going to eat. You know, because I'm curious, this guy's the best in the world, I want to know when he can eat, you know? Maybe he's not eating, maybe that's a bad thing, maybe I got it all wrong, I don't know. He's the best, I just wanted to look at him, you know, he knows who I am anyway, so I say hi, I say hi, and I'm looking. Unless he ate and I didn't see it, it was like over 25 minutes that he had meat and I walked by him. And I asked him, I said, don't you have to eat because now I'm alright, man, I'm like man, you're different. It's a very, very, very, very, very good. And I really don't think it's that important to him, like I engraved into the people that I helped, that you have to be able to take to this about the food, you have to be, you know, like this and like that. And then you come across some guys that they cheat on their diets, they don't look good and, you know, they have such good shape that they still beat the guy that trains his ass off and it's really hard. And you know, at the end of the day, you have to ask yourself whether you're genetically built for this or not. And I think that's where bodybuilding did good by making different categories because you know, you may not be genetically gifted for bodybuilding and I'm not, you know what I mean? That doesn't mean I don't know what I'm talking about. It just means I myself have done routines given them the people and seen with my own eyes that they work much better on 99% of the people that I'm talking about. That means if this is evident, if you look at my Facebook picture, you can see on the skiniest more, you know. But so for me, no, Dave, honestly, just to be like this right now, just to even look like this is incredible for me, you know. I know that I can only take so much drugs. I'm happy about that, you know, I have all my hair. I mean. I guess I guess I'm happy. I don't have a big stomach. I could do a vacuum. I know. Let's go back. I just want to just finish off this this diuretic routine. I know we're getting a little distracted. So you'll use 10 to 20 milligrams of injectal lacix per run. How many times you have to do this to people when do you start that? You started the day before. So the most I've ever used on anybody and I want to again, we're not here to mention a name is or anything, but he did win the whole show. And it was a very big show. It was nine C C's total. There's always a one C C tester. This isn't IV by the way, guys. I don't want anybody to think we're shooting up. We're not. We're not. Where are you? In the shoulder sub to yeah, it does burn a little bit, but it doesn't burn as much as new band. It's not that bad. I heard a lot of people do it. It's usually done IV now. I mean, I just, you know, I got over that whole thing. Okay. And so once I got over it, I was like, you know, and don't really reason to do it is if you're going to use an IV. And then you already have one line and you have an additional one, you can add anything to. You could just clear and do it. That's okay. That makes sense. But once you stop thinking about sticking the needle in the vein, you know, from the new vein and stuff like that, you know that it's a matter of timing, and it's just a matter of minutes different. And if you know the curve and everything like that, you just, you work on that versus the the facts on me. I'd be, you know. So how do you know with another one? So you just keep how often do you decide, hey, you know what? I need to do more. How does what what's your determining factor at that point? And are you using any oral, you know, directs in addition or is it just a LASICS? Thank you for asking that because I do. I actually do out that tone 25 milligrams and I usually do about four a day for three days. Like that's that's part of the sodium depletion and potassium loading. Now, it's important to understand that the alfactone is just used to assist in sodium blocking and potassium loading. I don't really care about it as a diuretic. It's not mild when using a jug of LASICS. Injectable LASICS frequency cannot be used sooner than eight hours. So there's only three times you can do it during the day. That's it. And if you do it too close to the evening, you're going to be up on my peeing and I found that that's counterproductive. So there's really only two good times you can do it. So let's just figure the tester and then one two three four five six seven eight. Okay, is what it was and let me explain in the nine C C. And how long will you pee for? And how long is it last in your system once it gets in there? With the potassium loading, you get about two good urine clothes. Of course the first one's greater than the second one and you could time them. They're usually about 12 minutes after the injection. Oh, wow, it sounds quick. It's about a doctor. I mean, it's pretty standard with everybody. And you can, as long as they haven't already had a full urination, you know, given that we're talking about an hour. Okay, so an hour, that's pretty much what's going to happen. Either way, they're going to have a urination at 12 minutes. It works that quickly. It makes the kidneys release. So you have to already have an excess of the amount of potassium. And a lot of times, just to be safe, if there's not cramping involved, because that's a really extreme measurement at that point. That means you've kind of already let it go too far. You know what I mean? But so we do a little bit of the oral, like the K-Lore, or, you know, the oral, a progressive monitor, someone of those. The quick release potassium chloride with, you know, right then. And then you do the injectable laser, maybe like five minutes later. And then that potassium is going to be pretty much readily available later on after this is drained you son, after the injectable laser to the grain you. So I don't really find it to be, and I find the oral to be more unpredictable and dangerous. They come in 80 and 40 milligrams. And I've used those two. I don't like them at all at all. I mean, for the main reason of you, Dave, like I know, I know it's a drug you're against, but I think you're more against stupidity than the drug. Because you would pick a gelatine in oral and you did. Yeah, I would, I would give him people, uh, a laser expels who just couldn't get any dies. But I use so little fewer of them that, you know, you don't need to use potassium if you're using 20 milligrams of laser twice a day, you know, for the whole prep. And just the last day of the prep. Yeah, but I mean, when you start doing extreme amounts, obviously, especially injectable, you're going to need some potassium. But you don't really need that. So yeah, I think, I think not anything in moderation is not really dangerous. And I think it's when you do extreme things. But, you know, we talked about earlier. Some of these competitors are water buffaloes. If they've never seen, you know, look, I don't, I never helped Ky Green, but I know Ky Green had a lot of trouble. He's a guy who could lose 25 pounds of water, you know, three days before a show and go from looking okay to looking amazing. Some guys, and I'm not going to stare, I don't want to stare you type, but I've noticed a lot of African American guys. I've noticed a lot of people are going to be there. They seem to be more resilient to the dioratics, we have to actually give them more. You know, is that? I've noticed in particular, the darker-skinned people, the darkest ones, because when I've worked with them the past, they were the ones that had the issues of getting rid of that water. That last bit of water. They could, they just needed a little something stronger. And then they did it all great. So, if you had to give a final piece of advice, and we'll continue this guru talk at another week or so, final piece of advice is to what dioratics scheme you should go with. You just did this whole, you know, spiel, what would it be? I have a feeling you're still saying go, you don't want to bother it. I don't think that I don't think inject the basics is needed at all, unless you have gone through the whole process. It's not something that you just want to be like at the last few days, be like, let me just locate and try to inject the basics. I don't recommend that. So, let me just be clear on this. The whole process is you have to throw yourself so out of whack. You have, and not only do you have to, you play mind games on yourself. You start thinking this isn't going to work. I look like, you're sodium-loading and cardimulating. You look like absolute shit. I mean, you become so smooth, so soft. Everything goes away. You have no, even if you're taking halatester and whatever, the muscle still loses its own, it's gone. You know, if you get all the glycogen out, you do it right. Yeah. It's just to have to be mentally focused to know that it's going to be better when you carve up for four days or so. You know, depending on who you are. And so, when you do this with the excessive amount of sodium, I mean, I've heard you do talking about just recently on the radio talk show. I don't know about how you believe it. You should have more sodium in your dust, right? Absolutely. I never cut sodium until last day. I have high sodium in the whole diet. Right. So, what is high to you? Because I don't know what high is, any more. So often, you're meals, putting soy sauce on your food, not restricting salt whatsoever. But so, you would still consider like adding a tablespoon of salt on some water and drinking salt, salt loading, right? You know what? I think a lot of people need to do that because a lot of people just don't like to put salt on their food. I have to have my guys sometimes forcibly eat salt. And like, I was always a guy when I dieted and I loved salt. I put it on my own, I put soy sauce and everything, especially when I was a little car, but it just makes things taste good. And I just create, it's like my body craved the sodium. Some people just hate the taste of sodium. I don't know why, because I'm the opposite. But those people, I actually hate drinking water like you do, like you just said. And this was the only way to actually get more in because at the end of the day, we were trying to figure it was like four plus grams. So it was quite a bit. You know, we were trying to figure, but it was sodium chloride. It was tapasol. So we loaded on table salt, which is what you lose back in the day because we didn't have sea salt when we were in the day. No, yeah, yeah. Everyone used to struggle. So who could afford sea salt? I was too worried about my humans, you know? You think there's any difference as far as making you whole water? No, I think it's exactly what I'm saying. The only advantage of table salt is its iodized, which is good for the body. Yeah, which people don't get from the sea salt. They can pick out. Yeah, I don't know. They should add it to it, but they can't. I mean, you know, you know, you're going to get an email from someone right after this show goes up and they're going to say, I want to hire you. I want to do the whole injectable lasics routine. They're extreme people. It'll probably be Boston, Lloyd, who's the one who could contact you, so you can go and do it. And you'll be like, Boston, are you competing? He's like, no, but I'll get ready for Saturday and morning, you know, Quartone. So is this something that you would do with people nowadays or you've done with the injectable lasics? No, no, no, no. So, okay, let me just think this because I know that this is going to blow the lid off everybody. And I don't need to. So I'm not trying, okay, Dave, I know you're laughing like, oh, okay, yeah, this guy, you know, he's been going for years. He comes back. He fucking knows Roger Stone. No, this shit. Yeah, I want to get to Roger Stone. That's why I'm I'm. I'm not trying to like, up, upstage any winner, but I found a way to do this, safe and to make sure that there's not, there's no mistakes to say, okay? And this is, this is even more complicated. And again, you can't get this. So, you know, don't, don't try to get something you can't get. Just listen your time. But let's face it and you and I both know when everything goes wrong and I'll let you say it, okay? Because you already know me. When everything goes wrong, what do they do? What do they give you? They play in the couch. No, no, no, no, that's the fourth. What do they do to you? What do you get when things go wrong? Like an idea bag. They give you sugar and salt. Yeah, right. You get an idea bag. You get sugar and salt. And once they take that thing out, you look at yourself in the me here and you're like, fuck, if I would have just looked like this, I would have won the overall. He laughed because he knows how true this is. Like it happens so much. Because then, so then you have the other people that that they don't have to go through this. They're smart enough because maybe they got a coach and their coach sells them, dude, your metabolism's going, shit. He's fucking everything. Go, Pete's whatever. You need it all. You need it. And they do that and then the direct doesn't kill him and they look good, whatever. With this whole thing, there is a way to do this and actually peak if you don't overdo it. And the only way not to overdo it is to have an ID bag. Okay. With that being said, okay. Obviously, the best in the world are not doing this. Okay. I promise you, I saw the best in the world. I saw him. He ain't fucking Pete, man. I was watching him. I don't know. Maybe that's what honey's got to do in that day. Maybe Phil's going to get mad at me next time. Not, man. He's the best to me, man. He's so gifted that you know, and even with you, you're conditioning. You weren't like that a couple weeks before the show always weren't you? Yeah, but I was in a radically focused and scientific about everything I was putting in my body. I wasn't just half-hassily shit. I was like, you know, I was a man. I was your primary coach. You had tissue thin skin everywhere when I saw you. I just died in really hard, and I wasn't afraid to push to that limit where I was. Look, I knew it. When I interviewed Dory and Yates, he said something that really wrong true with me and resonated with me. He said, I wanted to go beyond what these guys were doing. I didn't want to just be as lean as everyone else. I needed to go to the next level of leanness. And that's the way I heard him say that. When I heard him say that, Dory did you push it with crazy drugs, though? Well, he died and just pushed it and died and he had a hard, you know? We don't know what he did. I'm sure he probably did a very conservative, you know, a Democratic, a Democratic, a position. But the bottom line is that he was in such good shape before he did that. He didn't have to do anything extreme. Now, in the 90s, I was actually, you know, following a Bob Grushkin routine. I was actually using some aldactone. But I found at some point that it was actually flat in the Addil little too much. After four days, no good. Yeah. So I stopped doing that, the whole aldactone routine. And I just did the die-asides at the end. And they seem to work really well on my body. I want to agree with you that on the general, I think the die-aside, the maxide was a good drug too, but they're both the same thing. It dies. Yeah, it is probably the safest thing. And really you should be ready to add it to the time. And the God on his truth is that I have so much more new muscle army now that I'd ever had before because I'd never really had to do shows on growth. And I didn't have these drugs. I had them, but I was given another people. I wasn't taking them myself. I was more scared, man. I was scared of my body looking funny because I was already past the point where some of my bones were sealed, but then some of them weren't. Because I was still in my teens. And I have real growth. And it's like, you know, I didn't want to do it. Now, I had other people around me do it, including my brother, got phenomenal results. He was one of the best people that I worked with got phenomenal results. And you can see his YouTube video, a dean of lie on YouTube, his Bosnia routine, his other space, and his condition. And I don't want to, he's my brother. And I'm not calling anyone out because I want everybody to know what happened. Okay? There was two instances of cramping with the injectable basics. Can I get into this really quick? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. My brother was one of them. And he was the first. He asked me if I could get him to make heavy weights at the southern states in 94. I couldn't do it. And I tried really hard. I used injectable basics. I still couldn't do it. He just wouldn't lose the weight. I'm telling you, his condition was unreal. Yeah. And he was not going to get flat because I had loaded so much potassium. But every time I would give him a lay thing, I knew I had to give him a little bit more potassium. And the middle of the night, the night before the show, we were thinking that, and these at shows Dave, you remember you could weigh in the night before, and the morning up, and you could really press the weighons. They were kind of let you to the last minute. And he started cramping in the middle of the night. I was in the bed right next to him. First, his abs cramped. Then his legs cramped. His quad cramped. So he was like this with his legs locked out. Then his hamstrings cramped. While his abs were cramping. And his chest started cramping too. I started flipping the fuck out. I didn't have an IV bag. I knew you'd finish either. It already died. This is my brother. I was very fucking scared. Okay. My instincts kicked in. I grabbed the saline solution bottle. Took the top off. Took the big needle. Suck it all the way up. And I gave it to him. And instantly the cramps went away. And it stopped. And I said, dude, I'm not doing this anymore. I love you. But we can't do this. This is it. You're not going to get any better. And just be thankful that you're still not flat. And I can't. What do you think, I weigh? I said, I don't know, man. Maybe we might have made it. I don't know because he looked like he swept it a lot. He looked a whole lot better after all. And I had shitty still look a whole lot better. And no, dude, he was still 204. It was like what can fuck, you know. So that's when we met Dexter. And ever since then, he always remembered my brother from the show and me. And I met it. And I asked him Dexter after the show. And without calling out Dexter anything like that, I was devastated to find out what little he did for that show. I've had my brother with all this shit. And I'm like, and I scratched my head and I told my brother, that man's going to be Mr. Olympia. And a few years if he keeps this up. Because there's no way. I know he's not lying to me. But that's, you know, that's insane. You know. And, you know, that's what happened. Then he became Mr. Olympia. And every now and then I see him and he still remembers. But that's what we went through. And that was one. The second time of cramping was Abbas. And I want to say this because he didn't cramp when we did it. He cramp afterward. Okay. I told him when he was drinking. He didn't he came in fourth. I think that the USA is this year that year. And he was out and drinking iced tea. And he had a couple of these big iced teas. And he was drinking. And I was telling his friends. Kind of like for, practically, you know, like, you know, like getting on their nerves because I'm more nerdy. You know, like, you know, tell him to stop. He's got to end their clapping and they're like, who do he's fine. This shows over relaxed. Yeah. Go have some food. You know, just chill out. It's okay, man. And I'm like, no, you don't understand. He's going to start cramping because the water. And I'm trying to explain it to him. They're like, dude, just relax. And then I'm trying to like find me and eat or something. You know, like anybody got weed for this guy. I don't know. I don't, I'm like, okay, all right. I'll calm down. I guess he's okay. We get to the hotel lobby. We're literally 50 feet away from the from the hotel lobby elevator. And all of a sudden, he starts swapping cramping hard. His hamstring's like behind him. You know, both his hamstrings cramped up behind him. Two of his best friends were one of these side carrying him. Well, I'm running to the elevator to like get the door open and get his ass inside. Get up to the room. We're getting it. Oh, my give me the key. I got to get some shit out the room. And I'm like, I'm like, I'm this is seriously. It was one hell of a scene. It was, it was pretty intense because I mean, I have a lot of people doing those, but he's my cousin. And yeah, he's my cousin. And so I was really worried. You know, what's going to happen, man? She's cramping. It's all over. So I got the one CC. This is the extra CC. The one CC, the injective LASICs. He's cramping. They sit him down and I'm like, okay, give me your arm. He's like, what the fuck are you going to do? And I have a CC of injective LASICs. And he's literally like, not going to let me give it to him. And I'm trying to convince him, listen to this shit. I'm trying to convince him that he's cramping because too much water is now forcing to sell from the potassium loading that we're doing. And we must use injective LASICs. I be right now in order to bring him to stop cramping. Right now. Yeah, he didn't blame you. He let me do it. I swear to God, you can ask him this. He let me do it within a matter of 30 fucking seconds. His whole body of release up. And then about a minute later, he took a piss. And he was like, how did you know? How did you know that that was going to stop it? And I'm like, man, that's why they call me the bad side. I mean, before we go, the good story, by the way. Before we go, Rajasthan, one of your very good friends, he seems to be public enemy number one of the government now. Is he going to go to jail? What's going on? I sure hope not, man. A lot of people don't know about Roger and about, you know, what he stands for. He's a, he's a libertarian. You know, so he stands for small government. People not in our business. He wants us to have the rights to be able to use steroids, groul form on, you know. He thinks these things should be legal, okay? So in a lot of ways, you know, a lot of people who are in body building. And by the way, he loves to support a body building. They have similar ideas to him. He is a political strategist and his whole life, all he's done for a living is make people president. Right. It's not just true. I mean, this goes, what do you know? No, I know. I know what you interviewed. You got him on the show with us. Yeah. I'm so, we can't, I can't get personally involved with what his career choice is. Let's just think about that for a minute, guys. You know, so he may Trump president. So what? He actually in ways to support Obama and before that Reagan and before that Bush and before that Nixon, who gives this shit what he's good at, that's his job. When he's training, if he pushes to failure and he eats the way I tell him to and he looks good and doesn't lie to me, he's a good client. That's what it boils down to. Now, we became friends over the years. And I've seen how politics is dirty and nasty. And then I've seen how people call him a racist and people call him all these negative things. But, you know, I've been through tough times. And I've had to lean on my friend for money. And there's been a couple of occasions where I've called him up, literally like during the campaign. And he's like, this is the worst timing. And I'm like, you know, I really need a few grand right now. Things didn't work out this month. You know, I only take a few clients, a couple of them didn't sign, whatever, whatever. And it just threw everything out of whack. And he's like, yeah, man, I'll take care of you. So he's a solid guy. He's never been a racist to me. And I hope he doesn't go to jail. And they have to have something for him to go to jail. And he tells me that there is no evidence. Now, I don't know whether that means, I mean, I did it, but there's no evidence. I don't know. I'm not stating that, okay. But the kind of person that he is, you know, he asked me to come down to four to after the show and hang out with him. You know, that's what he said. And come out because I could use to train with you and chill with you and work out with you and stuff like that. I haven't been as a system so many years, but they are doing some kind of a witch hunt. And Andrew Miller is a friend of mine. He's Rogers former assistant. This guy's father was married to his secretary, okay? We were friends. We used to go out on his boat and stuff when I lived in Miami. This is when I wasn't training bodybuilders other than talking to Tony and stuff. And, you know, they're going after his personal friends and stuff. They haven't bothered me. I don't think they are going to bother me. I don't have any significant incident other than just being his friend. But like I said, you know, they, they're does seem to be some sort of hatred between the FBI administrator and the administration and the people surrounding the administration, you know, it's, it's, it's sad. So it's sad. We, we wish him the best and obviously, you know, I got his, his stone cold shirt. He sent me so that's great. I was like, I got his too. I don't like it. It's not a good bodybuilding cut. No, it's one of those stiff fixtures. Yeah, I want to, you've got to make some soft at once. Like this iron asylum, Alaska shirt. I got onto the, yeah, I like that one. That's what you want to do. Anyway, well, I mean, thank you so much for, for joining us today. And obviously, sharing some of your stories and we'll bring you back. We've got to talk about some insulin new insulin protocols. We're going to be bringing up. We'll probably get collect Nelson on the talk about it as well. And we'll do another episode of this and good luck. You're showing keep us up there. Thank you. I wanted to just tell you really quick that if people want to follow some of this stuff that I'm doing, I'm not obviously putting it on YouTube because YouTube will take it down. And there's just no need for my family to be seeing this shit. This straight up. I don't want my family seeing me, you know, needles and stuff. This, I don't, I don't need it. Now, on the other hand, if you guys are interested in whether or not I do the injectable basics, do the IB Bank, do the whole mind yards, and what happens down at the North Americans, then you can get on to my website, guruameenelai.com. You can check under the membership. The membership is free and then go to the mad scientist. And it's $40 a month. And it will give you access to all the videos in the past and going forward. It's a revolving thing. You can pull up, put back in whenever you want if you want to. And if you have any questions, you can add them to the video. And I'll do a two-and-a answering the questions on the videos. All right. It sounds great. Great start resource and information. And we always love that. But that is going to take us to the end of another episode of live. We're brought to you by species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com on Dave Pellonbo and we'll see you next time.

How would you today think that I do this at 7 o'clock today Pyrus

Thank you!

To my old production available today's market, upgrade yourselves today and start making it.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Thursday July 8, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Over the last few weeks, we've talked about the Chicago Pro a lot on this show. And for the most part, whenever you talk to anyone about the 212 division there, the conversation immediately shifts the key on Pearson, because everyone's already penciling him in as the winner. And who knows? That might end up being the case. But I'll tell you what, I would not sleep on Amide Al Desani, as a legitimate threat there. The announced last week that he was planning to make his season debut in Chicago. And anyone who keeps up with this division knows that this guy might be one of the most underrated athletes out there. When he's at his best, he can be a top 5 Olympian for sure. He's that good. So if Keyon doesn't show up, it is absolutely best. I wouldn't put it past El Desani to slide in there and steal the win. Since we're already on the subject of underrated athletes, I figured why I take a second to shine some light on William Martin's. When he made his pro debut a few weeks ago at the Puerto Rico Pro, there were a lot of people who thought that he was overlooked, including our own Chris Asito, who thought that William could have easily placed 3 or 4 spots higher. Well, according to reports, William is already looking to get back on stage and exact some vengeance at the Portugal Pro, which is set to go down a little less than 2 weeks from now. Even though the official lineup hasn't been released yet, based on what we know right now, if William shows up looking even better than he did in Puerto Rico, this could be his show to lose. And if it does end up playing out that way, I think this seemed to feel like he was overlooked and ended up washing away very quickly. For the most part, we don't have a ranking system in bodybuilding like they do in other sports. Right now our ranking system pretty much consists of where someone placed in the previous Olympia, but for all intents and purposes, it doesn't mean a whole lot because someone's ranking doesn't have anything to do with what happens on stage. The reason I'm saying this is because there's a weird ranking thing that caught my attention in classic physique coming up at the Arnold. On paper, Terence Ruffin should be the highest ranked athlete because he placed second at the Olympia last year, which should make him the favorite. But then again, Alex Cabernero is the defending champion. And it's hard to say that we should arbitrarily put anyone ahead of him as the favorite, especially since he beat Terence at this show last year for the title. So it's another one of those weird things that only happens in bodybuilding. And the only way to sort it out is to see what happens on stage. But depending on what happens there, maybe there will be some sort of flip flop in the rankings that hasn't impacted the way the judges see things at the Olympia a few weeks later, which may or may not make things more confusing. I guess we'll just have to wait and see. And finally, if you've been a fan of our show for an extended period of time, then you already know how much we love to support the troops and police officers who helped to protect our freedom and keep us safe every single day. So I wanted to take this time to send a special shout out to one of the boys in blue. So it happens to be a fan of the show and an NPC competitor named Ryan Colblins. Ryan is a three-time champion in the NPC who's currently in the process of trying to add some size so we can come back to compete against next year at the national level with the hope of potentially being able to win his pro-card. Sometimes we get so wrapped up in the day-to-day bodybuilding stuff that we forget about how many athletes out there are doing incredible things away from the gym and the stage that deserve some recognition and Ryan is one of them. So if you want to check and follow along with his journey, you can follow him on Instagram at rjc on discord 330. And that does it. The yet another edition of Russell in the Morning on Daypalombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Thanks Neil. Yeah Thank you Brnendau FairAdu Yeah

kah The School Times held 16th chain flag meeting at the university opening season 300,000 years remaining against a secondary decision. 네! I'm Dave Holyumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide Bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensse supplements that work in our backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days I believe in only putting the best in my body and that In this species nutrition line of products, we use only top of the line formulations toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. When you are asleep, they're just getting started. John, Dave Pulonga, after hours. Welcome back to After-Hours, as always I'm Dave Pulonga here with John Romano. Looking to get in a little bit of trouble today as always. You know that's our stick, right John? Usually. But before we get in a trouble, I wanted to start off this show with an ass-day of question. Hmm. Not if you don't mind. Yes, sure. Impossible. To become addicted to fiber lunas. You know, I got someone who actually sent me a testimonial, man, to read it to me today. The guy had like, sigmoid colon surgery and the guy has never had a regular bowel movement and he was been tried men amused to try to everything and he was miserable. And one, like, I think after like a week on fiber lunas, he's completely normal going to the bathroom. People don't understand that their sillyum is not a silly. You know, when you go with this story and see this, you buy this like sillyum seed. It's like a generic, like, you know, flavorless and you figure, well, this has got nothing in it. This has got to be the pure stuff. It's not. It's the cheap stuff. There's different grades of sillyum and you know, I had to do a lot of research to think, I didn't even notice John initially. I used to be one of those sugar-free men amused to guys too and it just never did anything for me. When I did my research on this and talked to a lot of manufacturers, I found that there's different swell rate syliums and we use the highest swell rate meaning that's why when you put it in a glass it turns to gelo to stuff. You want it to be that even holder. You know, you got to like, three seconds to drink. Yes, you know, but I have a lot of people who put it in the refrigerator and eat it like gelo when they're dieting because they're starving to death, you know. And I'll try that. You need like an industrial wire brush to clean the glass after you. But no, I'd be product info aside. I didn't mean to turn this into a commercial. I don't want it. As far as the feeling, when you have that bowel movement and it's like you're empty, you know, there's like no question about it. There's nothing left. You are empty. And God, that feeling is so good, you know. I mean, you're like, it's like the light on your feet. If you were so smart, I don't know if you were following the Hassan, Hassan, Hassan, Hassan Mustafa who Chris Asidoh works with, he had a really bad case of hemorrhide that we're bleeding and got infected. And you know what that's from John. It's from straining, you know. And when you eat, you know, eight times a day and you're eating low fiber foods because, you know, you're on a diet and stuff like that, your carbs allow, you become really constipated. And you know, you could really do some serious damage to that lower, you know, part of your intestinal tract. So you're typically where it exits, you know. And that's why you guys get hemorrhides from straining like that. And you know, we're so strong from squatting our pelvic muscles is so powerful that we can really do some serious damage. So with fiber, you know, when you take a product like cyber, it just slides at you. You don't have to strain, you know. You don't get hemorrhides, you know. And sitting on a toilet for hours, the fricking is no good for that. Now, I told Jimmy to bulk because, you know, he taught dogs and there's no fiber and not dogs. And he had hemorrhide problem for a while. And I said, you got to take fiber like I said, you're eating fucking crap. At least it'll move it out of your body quickly, you know. And he does that stack of toilet paper, he's got to last them. It'll last the room and rest of his life. And rather that's like the most efficient means of toilet resources. Yeah, having fiber lies in your diet because you sound on wipe time and consumption significantly. It's amazing. But it's just that feeling. I mean, I guess you can say I'm addicted to that feeling because if I don't take it. And like I won camping last weekend and I didn't take fiber lies. And I noticed the difference the next day, I was miserable the whole freaking day. Yeah. But you know, I did it. I said, I'm just miss one serving of it. And I only go, I don't get my two movements of the day. And I'm like upset. I can feel like I don't feel as good. I feel like something in my stomach and it's not, I don't feel as like he said his empty and I think so. Do you take a twice a day? Yeah. If you take a twice day, you've got a much better response from a two. I think. I just started, yeah, I just started doing that morning and night. I got to send you, I got to send you more remind me. I don't want you to run out. Dice as to, you know, if you ever need any fiber lies and if I ever, my manufacturer stops producing it's called, guy as to, you know, he has like a year of supply in his house. Hey, so he's another addict. You should probably have fiber lies anonymous. Yeah. It's like a very secret cult club of, you know, I'm literally scared of it not being available. Yeah. But that are not run out of that ship, at least until it's still alive. It's been, it's, I'm trying to get great Valentina's phone can't, you know, accept the length for zoom. We have to have the email to him like, you know, the old days, you know. So, so, I wanted to ask your question. If you've noticed that MD is still printing magazines. Yeah, you know, someone asked, one of my clients was saying, oh, I'm so happy. I'm in the magazine. It's pretty cool to see my picture. I'm like, today, do they actually have magazines anymore? I didn't even know that they even printed any magazines anymore. I'm not saying, like paper or did he go to Zinya? Is he actually still printing and shipping paper? He is. I think he still has, probably obviously has still a couple of people paying him. I don't know why. I think for some reason, high tech likes to take ads at magazines. I don't know what the, well, the Jared uses that as a CADLON. Yeah, and he's nostalgic or something like that. I don't know. He throws a 3-3 copy adad in every order. Oh, that was out of this. I said, yeah. So, he thinks, yeah, he has his, he has his social media belief in that his magazine. It pretty much is John. He's paying for it. Pretty much. Yeah. Oh, if, if black middle off is high tech, forget about it. You know, if the seller, that's over done in the tank. I don't know why he didn't even want to do the magazine at this point though, because it's probably just paying the cost of the magazine. Unless it's just like an ego, I think at this point, you know. It's totally an ego thing. Come on, that's all it is. It's all it ever was. It's an ego thing. Speaking of black men, you know. You know, people always ask why we talk about him. And it's not that I'm not like even looking to talk. It just creeps up on us and it's, you know, no, no pun intended about the creep. Well, to be fair, I mean, it's a historic. I mean, he does occupy his story at Gellon. And we are keeping him pretty relevant by talking about him. I think it's actually what doing on the favor, right? Oh, yes. I'm absolutely what we're doing on the favor, but, but you know, the reality is is that at some points because of our history with him and the magazine, and it's painful to watch, you just like, you know, it's like you're riding the camel and both the pumps are all used up. There's no fluid left then. And he's like dead. And he's trudging through just saying one, one hoof for the time, you know. And it's, he should've just gotten out when it was big and good, you know. Hey, can you guys hear me? Hey, I was stalling for the guy on because I wanted to, I want to show, I don't know if you, if you saw a Greg or anyone, I know John hasn't seen it yet, but that there's a video YouTube channel that I call like my sugar daddy has something or another. What is it called? Tyler? Oh, sir, I don't even want to give him too much credit. But he always grabs stuff from anything of mine. He likes to put stuff from day to day, pull up out there. And it's like, it seems to be popular. It's a YouTube channel. This guy like re-edits like videos of mine, like training videos, something that I've done in the past and guess posing, puts him up. He edited it, re-edited it in some video. He took all the black men impressions they did with the black men puppet, you know, I have, where's the book? Oh, God. And he put it, like in like he spliced it together with the actual black men, um, talking himself, you know, black men does John these like little vlogs for black, the act of vlogs, where he actually talks about nutritional supplements. Have you seen, you remember the ones who played like about a year ago? Yes. All right, what he's got a new one. Is this the CBD one? He has the one he recorded in the bathroom? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, this one's like out, I think he has back yard of some like that. But so this guy spliced together a bunch of black men doing something and then he goes to me, they went like the black men and pop it. So I'm going to play a little bit and then we can we can talk about it. This one's a funny one. So all right, let's just, this one, this must be his new house because the last one did you with you would say. Now, and you knew you've been at his house. So you would now. So that's that's not his house. All right, let's, let's play this one. Hey guys, this is Steve Black men for another AML health and nutrition report. Today I want to talk about Kanbadao, CBD. It's the talk of the town. A miracle cure. The hottest supplement trend in years and the FDA hasn't even approved it in food and supplements. Sales growth of CBD is projected to reach 22 billion. 2022. The hype on CBD is way ahead of the science. Latest research shows that CBD could lower dope in being in the brain and may inhibit long-term cognitive function. More information on CBD in cognitive function, go to advancemerklafs.com and read my new article entitled New Research, Kanbadao. CBD lowers dope in being dope or less cocktail to the rescue. Until next time, remember knowledge is power. Lee, I think we need to give you another contract. Of course. I have an idea for marketing. What do you tell you what, I'll put you on the cover. How about that? I'll make you a star. I know I've done it before. Please, sir. I have this. Lee, Prisma, Sthlach, slow is. Woo! Steve, Steve, can you give me a good contract? What's this, Steve? Are they impracticing just for the contract? Oh! Oh! Steve, did you see that? Oh! He's got a slow, slow, slow, slow. Lee, they're very strided. I don't know if you've noticed them. Victor, I here is making it come back to. Maybe we could put you guys in a photo shoot together. I'll call Pairbinam. We'll get Dorian on the contract, too, because he's a legend. Hey, everybody. I'm going to eat for lunch. That's enough. I got enough. I don't know. The highest new trend in supplements. What can we have? It's always been... To talk in a tad. He's always got a problem. The bathroom was echoing. His generation of iron was the wind was blowing. His hair and the wind noise. And then, now he's got the airplane flying over the canyon. And then he's in the hot tub with the hot tub bubbly. He can't hear what the fun thing. He never was in pity. After we reported him, he said, What the fuck? You can't find echoing something. Come in to fucking bathroom. I would've never put that out. Now he's got the airplane flying. I know it's over the long island sun. The airplane told when the fucking sun was on. Which night club is going on? I've been there many times. Let me ask you, is the magazine... Is it still there? Or is it like a zair still a paper? The book is clearly... Apparently there is. Because somebody printed a poster picture of a magazine issue. So then he was in... Oh, it is. Is it but is it like spring winter summer fall or is it every other? You know, I don't know. I don't see it like a calendar. Greg, it comes out once a year. No. Really? Oh no. Is it probably like four issues? He only... He only throw it because he likes doing it. That's his little... My other question critique is, Why the fuck is he so angry? And till he's with the sunglasses he would be. Fix his Valentine's. Yeah. He's a gentleman. So like... Make this. Yeah. He's got a maker. What is he got that? What is he got that bark in it you like? You know, CBD. Yes. Yeah. I don't... The journalist bet... You got to listen to me. He... And the article that I wrote. It'll read the article. The one who fought Billion by 1222. What the hell? Where does he get his advertising act? He's always... He's always done that. This is the best thing in the newest thing. But I gotta tell you one thing. That fucking guy does not look like how old is he got his... He does not age. He doesn't age. Hi. Oh no. He's got use genetics. Oh my god. He's got to be 65 at least. He's... He was seven years older than me. So yeah, he's 60 years old. He's probably... He's a 70 years old. He's almost 70 years old. Yeah, he's almost 70 years old. He looks amazing. Yeah. I mean, he's... Sitten there. He looks like he was in his 30s. Oh no. He's not 100. He'll live 200. No doubt. He knew what he did. From the guy's in the office. That he was down to eat and like one meal a day. Everything is done. All he ever ate is one meal. Yeah. Intermittent fasting. I read the article. Intermittent fasting. That's why Jack O'ayam lives so long. I got to intermittent fasting. He would eat lunch sometimes. And he would... He would eat lunch sometimes. And he would... He was always eating dinner with a bot. And he would drink at least one bottle of wine. John. Yeah. He would... Yeah. Increases life of a... Yeah. He would... He would... I got a... I'm a... I'm a trend of change so difficult. It just made me think of something. About a guy who's actually a big fan of this show. He said... I mean, a huge fan. He actually had a fan of the show. I didn't know that. That's good. We... we have a couple. And most of my ask me why you're drawing stuff all the time. Yeah. I'm not going to draw. I told people I wouldn't draw. You should actually fucking sell one of those things. Like this is... I was going to sell the 20. You know, I was going to send it to you. I was going to sell it to you. I was going to sell it to you. Who would have sent it to me? I would have... But I got to say something. Dave... Dave and John... I want to... You guys are... You know, versed on this stuff. This guy... His name is Vinny Altairo. If you're watching God bless you, I hope you get better. Listen to this. Because we were just talking about black man. This guy's in the 60's. He... he fucking... He hasn't had a slice of pizza. Passed it anything in 25. 26 years. Okay. He... he fasts for three days and a row sometimes. He eats... Nothing... no... he hasn't had any meat in about 25. 26 years. Right. He... he actually... he... Dave... he listens to everything. He listens to everything you say. He's dramatic with this. And he actually drinks his... You know, like he'll make a... a smoothie. And that's all he will have for a day. And it's... you know, he'll put like King Wan, all the sudden shit. He just had a fucking massive, massive, massive heart attack. But he actually died on a field. I heard... He runs every day, runs, wins, branch, runs long. There's the... You saw this guy, walk-tron. It doesn't take any steroids. He was a natural body, but he walks around shredding. Like... not normal. I mean, like... like bodybuilding... He's not having any other blockage. I don't... I'm not sure yet. He's still in the hospital right now. He was dying then. You know, he's an intensive care. But what I'm saying is, Dave, this guy... If you would have thought anybody would live to be a hundred... It would have been this guy. He was so clean living. Generating. Generating. That's why you got to get your diagnostic test, Greg. You got to get that cardiac CT to see if your blood... Your... your... cardiac vessels are open. You know? The adunetics will over supersede the best diets sometimes, you know? See, that's what I'm trying to get at. See, these guys... people have watched this. He was a vegan. I mean, full-fledged... 100% vegan. So, there goes the vegan myth. But... and... you know... He watched our shows. When we were talking about shit sometimes, you would tell me, Now, you guys, you know... I don't know, I disagree because I blast vegans all the time. Yeah. And... but... You've never seen anybody eat this clean. He's like... the rare white buffalo. And... for him to have a heart attack, makes you feel mortal. And we... But... But on animal source protein, though... Or him not having animal source protein, Look at the scene is the... you mean, OAS, right? Date that... that's in animal source protein... That he wasn't yet... Well... you know... You know... There's bhaiyf tham... Where's the... Broly is... Well, he's a genetic time clock. When that time clock goes off, you know... You could... you... you could expire very quickly, you know? He probably might... He might... He might... he could... he could... He could live this long if he would have been eating cranks. He said... I don't... I don't buy it to my whole... You know... all of this... He's... he's... he's... he's one of his children. We'll win him. When he was running, he would go... We'll do win sprints and run every day. He'd go to the football field. Yeah. He was... I'm going to tell you one thing about the win sprints thing. You know what? I got caught up in this whole... And Johnny could probably test this. We're... we're so competitive, you know... And from the body building, you know... When I started body building, I lost weight. I got my... I... why if I... before we had kids, we got it to cycling. I... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd... I'd went and bought a set bicycle. And then of course I had to have the best one. And then I got into this whole... You know... try to ride fast with all the other guys. So I was in the endurance athlete when I was younger. You've remembered that. I was a runner. So I started... Like cycling with these guys that have been cycling for 30 years. And... I was keeping up with them. They were like, where did you come from? How long you been doing this? I said, you know... four weeks. They're like, what? I just had an accurate... But you know what? What was happening? I was getting... I was throwing weird heart rhythms. And I was singing on the cardiac, you know, my monitor, you wear when you ride. And I told... and that's why I had found that... I had a cardiac arrhythmia. You know, arrhythmia. The... probably had my whole life just never really pushed that heart. You know, my... and now in my 50s and... Or at the time I was in my late 40s. And you know, the doctor said something to me that really struck a chord. He's like, why are you peddling? Why are you riding so hard? I said, because I... I got to get in shape. I said, he's like, can shape for what? What do you do? Are you doing a triathlon? I said, no. I said, but... I can do it. You go, well, just because you can do it, doesn't mean you should be doing it. You know, you're... in your almost 50 years old, he said, Why you cycling like your Lance Armstrong? And you know what? I said to myself, he's right. Well, put it... put it my end to you. Why am I pushing myself to this insane degree at this age? It does no benefit to an amount of fact. It might be a detriment to it because I'm pushing my body too hard. It doesn't need to be pushed that hard. And I'm not 25, 30 years old anymore. So I cut back and I try to start enjoying it a little bit more. But the point is sometimes when you're an extremist and it continues into your old age, you can... you can kill yourself, you know? You're pushing... Because you can push it faster than the barrier, you know? What about buy billing date? That's a great point you just made. Same thing with buy billing. I'm a serious one. You're probably shrinking. You're doing, you know, you shouldn't weigh 280 pounds, you know? But what if you still train? Like I still train the way I... In a way, it's the train. I've already gone to the gym after this. You know, and I'm going to... I do a blow instead of what I can't do it any other way. Right. But you know what? Who knows? If you had a predisposition for, you know, having a harden with me, you might give you some harden tack and die. I don't know. I don't know how hard you push in the gym. I'm just saying... Well, it's fine. But you know what? If you were unprobably a thousand... 10,000 milligrams a year a day, that probably would kill you. You know, I don't know. I'm going to take control. It's right. Yeah. I'm doing hormone replacement therapy. And that's just... But that's just... Well, place... The trick is you got to get checked out. If your heart checks out is good, then you can do it. If you have an arrhythmia, you know, where you have a blockage and when you're coronary, or you're doing that kind of training, you can have a harden tack in the gym and drop dead. You know, there's no doubt about that. That's why you couldn't... To die, you're helping us to... You're helping us to keep it in a CPR. We're giving them CPR on a field. I think you was dead on a field. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. I mean, the two are mutually exclusive. Whether you train or what method of training you're doing and whether or not you're going to have a heart attack, a little bearing on each other, if you're predisposed to have an heart attack. I mean, that's just the way it is. Well, we're... Certainly you can contribute, you know, to factors that are going to increase your odds of having a heart attack. But if you're... You're going to have a heart attack. You're going to have a heart attack. And it doesn't matter if you're bowling, playing ping pong or body building. That's just... That's just way the way it is. Do you guys remember that the runner gym fix... He wrote a book? He wrote a book? Yeah. He wrote a book about running. And they told... It's the heart doctor told him, because he had a heart condition. He said, look, if you continue running, okay, you're going to die of a heart attack. And he's like, you know what? If I stop running, I'm going to die of a heart attack. Because I got to belong to my heart. So he continued running. He wrote like three, four books about running. One of the most... Some of the most popular books at the time in the 80s. I remember. He did win of dying. I think, well, he was running. I'm a heart attack. He had a bad heart. You know? But it wasn't from the running. I don't even know if he died. I don't think he was running when he had a heart attack. It was after he finished running or something like that. But he would have died even early. Because his dad had died at a very young age in his 30s. And he lived in 2s like 60s. So... It is what it is. You know what I mean? It's... We're dealt the hand. You know? And sometimes the parts old don't work as well. We'd like them to work. And as we get older as you guys know. But they break way easier. And we don't fix so easily. And so, you know, we all have our little things that are wrong with us. And you got to just be aware of them. And then not be afraid to admit we have limitations as we get older. Because if you don't, and you try to go beyond that, sometimes you're asking for trouble. You know? You know, what I notice is the... First of all, weights feel heavier. You know? And I know they're not. They just feel it. And I feel more beat up after my workout. It's now that I used to the recovery. You know? Oh yeah. I know what I mean. I know my lower at the four days a week instead of five for training. Because I really feel like I need that extra day arrest. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, you know, you don't want to... I guarantee. The thing is, we're all in our 60s. Dave, you're only 51. 2. Are you even 52? I'm 52. All right. See you at 52. I'm 52. Wait. You're a baby still. John, you... You're birthday just keeplist when. Next month, I'll be 60. Oh, I thought it was September. No, October. No, October. You're today's my sons birthday, 30. Shit. Wow. I've got to be 63. Chris, is today. Are you real? You were born with a birthday. No, I'm waiting for the hurricane. We got all the hurricane swells right now. So, sir, you're going to serve the 104 wave again. I got, well, I got... I hit the pipe, the other day, the front of my board. Oh, front of my nose. This is big pipe. That place I've wear is served. Yeah. I hit that with my board. The whole nose, front of the nose came more. You hit a car. But drain pipe? Yes, a big pipe. You hit me? Yeah. And you're still alive. Oh, hold on. Hold on. Get the pain. Back in the album. Mr. Ghee, it's like the quintessential, like, you know, anomaly. You don't do anything he does. If you try to do anything he does, you'll die. That's basically the... No one can take a beating like him. He does it. No one can take a beating like him. He doesn't go to any doctors. I asked him when he left, I mean, went to a doctor. He's... I like me, I never go here. Dude, I went to a doctor about four years ago when stuff... Hey, take care of my health. What was the last time you went to a real doctor, George? Not a car or a friend. Dr. Ghee, damn. Can you remember? 30...30 years ago? I went here in a half. I'll live 220, I guarantee he'll be the guy in the... Oh, what? I'm doing... I'm doing all the stuff I'm supposed to be doing anyway. Right. All right. So what is it matter? Let's take it to tell me, you know, that I'm not... That I'm not already doing things to take care of my health. Wow, I mean, you don't know something's wrong with you, right? I mean, they couldn't be... Even if there was such a wrong, I'm still gonna... I'm still gonna... Well, I mean, what if you... I'm going for a call and ask to be on Friday. I'll get your chance. I'll give it to you. You'll give... I don't want... I don't want you or Blackman touching my anal region, but... I'm going for a call and ask me because you're supposed to get one after 50. And you know what? There was people in my family who had cancer, so I want to make sure, you know, I've kids obviously young kids. I got to check it out. But I put it off. I probably should have had it two years ago. Have you guys all had call and ask me? I've had two. I've had none. Did you find anything in yours, Chun? Yes, I had... The first one I had seven polyps. Okay. So you see that? You say you're self-attacking cancer down the road. And then five years later, I had another one. I won last year and there were no polyps. Okay. But you say you saved yourself. I mean, that could have turned into cancer. They were the ones that... The kind that do turn. Oh, they do. Okay. So you're lucky. So I mean, George has gone to a doctor. Greg has been there 60 years old. I mean, you guys should get a call and ask me because you just don't know. And it's such an easy test. And they snip those little... One thing going there, you just take the polyps right out. So... Way better than having to deal with a cancer situation, you know, five years from now. So... And they put you out. No. I'm going to... I mean, all that is the hospital. You know. Yeah. I'm going to show you the old thing. I don't know how to make a life. Oh, there you are. I can go and talk to my food. In one place. Highler, mute him for a second. Thank you. Oh. In the old days, they used to be awake for the colonel. I've been out of fun. You're... And you're not proud. You're completely out. So it's like... You're sitting on a page read. Why are you always screwing up our audio? God's given. John's given his wisdom. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. All right. Listen. You've got to break it. Jimmy. Jimmy? Jimmy. Before we lose you. Yeah. Can you just tell us what's going on last two weeks? And then we can get rid of you. What up last week? You wanted even angry. What's going on? You've been angry at your mind for the last two weeks. You haven't been able to get the job. You've never been sitting in one spot. All right. Because I'm all, you know, I only got 50. I've got 50. I've got 50. What's the balance with the going on before we lose you? So... So, you know, I'm not my first big dog shop right now. Can I get my bike stick stage. I just wanted to show you the fucking place for real quick. Get on me. Big dog got a model. My buddy might take care of all my problems. My bike to my car, all my bullshit. So, I got up to follow you. I got up to follow you. I got a week. So, as I hung up to fuck the phone. I'm looking at my behavior mirror. I'm on the expressway. And I see black fucking rubber fly and snop. I'm not a factor of fucking truck. I'm going with the fucking associates. And all of a sudden, I see my tire blew the fuck off. So, I have fucking blow off the block road. Get off the fucking truck. I look to fuck the tires. With the block piece, I have poorly boss. I thought my CEO had to die with the fuck the truck. I got a load on. What do you want me to do over here? I just got dumped. I said, fuck. Okay, man. I'm the guy. I'm fucking one of the yard. It's not the right. So, yesterday, he made a little noise. I said, yesterday, I got a book and I make a lot of load. My boss got used to taking a 364, go out to live here to the farm. I'm like, shit. I got six or four. Nobody wants to drive that truck. He goes, I know. I know you'll drive it. I said, yes, sure. Right. So, I was fucking freezing yesterday. I get in the fucking truck. The fucking right window don't fucking go up. It's fucking broken. The egg it this is stuck on. I can't get the job back. I get on the expressway. I'm fucking cruising down the fucking highway. And all the sudden I'm fucking, I'm, I try to, I find the job backs of switch. I hit it. And all the job backs are come down. All the sudden I hear its explosion. The airbag blows up. And then all of sudden they're fucking you. Well, snap out of the fucking axle. And the fucking, the fucking pies are on like this in the back. I raise up the axle. No fucking drop-axle. The fucking thing's very to full. It's like, I can't even share that. Go through. This business is just, What's living? The lyrishy questions. It seems as though over the last couple weeks that every tire on that truck has been changed already. It's either had a wall out or exploded or it hits something or the thing bent. How many tires are you freaking trucker? It's good. You gotta have a whole new set of tires by now. He's hard in the, it's weird. I'm not hard on your grip of the guy. It's not good. It's not good. It's like, get caught. It's how it's done, right? It's like a brace. Everything. That's the tire rolling in the air. Oh, it's your blowing up. Here you go. It's just blowing up. There. Then you're driving too hard, Jimmy. Yeah. No. I don't always, I always, I always try this. It's just fucking nuts. Jimmy, he's here. Anyway, he, he, he, he, he. Resign, let's come up with a velvet rock. No, it's no. No, no, no, no, no, no. It's 20, 7. Okay. So I know, so he has my luck. So I get a little fucking floor say in the job. Right? So can you say it's blocking? Can you stop? Okay. Can you say it's fine? Okay. I'm not going to smack right now. I know. I'll get ahead of you from seeing this. To see you. Oh, oh, oh. Why? Why are you? How's that? That man. Why is he going to hurt him? Correct. Yeah. Right now. Get him out of the dog and a fiber life shake. Yeah. I want to know why he's. I want to know why he's. So. All right. Tell us slowdown because you're breathing too heavy. Tell us the story. So I get a little for job. I figure let me make a little extra money. Right? So my good friend. He says my dad needs this for us done. I says okay. No problem. Because you're in the mental space. You're just going to work with my sister. No problem. I go over the fucker house. I've had your job. He had a little water damage. The fidgeted lead. The fidgeted is going to get replaced. They said whatever I look at the lead. The damage. I said, yeah, the floor has got to come out. Right? I go home. I get a phone call. It's a jam. My father's going to use the insurance people. It's just there. What do you mean? He's going to use the insurance people. He's going to go with them. The guy's coming next week. The floor office. All right. Fuck it. Man, I walk away. Do we slay the. I got another phone call. Yeah. My dad's not going to use the insurance guys. They ripped the floor up. They put my with dad. You got to go over there. He's calling me like crazy. I said, I'm right. If I go over the house. I need to apply with dad. I tell the price. He says, okay. Jimmy, we can start. I got to get the wood at the start next week. I said, my guys will be here Tuesday. That's at 7.30 tomorrow. Okay. Great. Now I'm working. Get out of the fuck streets. So my guy who go there. I'll Tuesday 7.30. They ring the door. He almost said, door. Who the fuck are you? My guy goes. Well, we're here with Jimmy. Yeah, we're supposed to do the floors. Yeah, I went. I heard the fridge ready was leaking. My brother. He goes, nah. He goes, you need to get the fuck out here right now. So my fucking guy I was going. Yeah, we got to do the work here. So what he told him? Because I want you out here now. So they fuck a leave. They call me. I'm on the job. They call me. Yeah, they got you through. So the fuck is always this. What happened? He's supposed to take the refrigerator out here. So I square everything up with the sister. Go to the next day. They can't move the fucker. It's a sub zero. It's fucking 500 fucking pounds. I shit. So they call me up. They say, what are we going to do with the refrigerator? I said, I don't know. He can't get it out of the house. Put it in the back. Well, we can't get it. Don't go anywhere. It's too big. I said, just drag it in the next fucker. We'll get it out of the way. Start saying that I fucking for. So they end up putting it in a little hallway and they say the floor is down. So I go there and they're piloting. I went there out of here through. I see the refrigerator in a hallway. I can't do a hallway because the fucker is finished sitting in a little hallway. I can't say it. So I had to come back at a late thing. So I tell them. I said, listen to that. I told them that Danny there. I said, do me a favor. Don't walk on these floors. They're going to pile in a half hour. Get whatever you need upstairs because they're going to be pile in. Okay. I said, you understand. Next. Yeah, you understand. I told them to come back. I was late. Guess what? The lady. Walk the cross the fucking floor. I don't want stairs. Right? I can't be up. The daughter called me as she says, like, I did walk the cross the floor. Like, geez, this Christ, I says, you kidd me, right? I said, you should go. So when about the fridge ready, you left it in the hall. If I said, he said, the fridge guys, get fixed. No, me more than me. No, we're not with garbage. I said, well, he just told us that the touch of this guy is coming to fix the fucker. No, he's getting involved. I said, can you people get your shit together? So it's unbelievable. Unbelievable what I go through. I just can't have a fucking normal fucking average thing. I just go to jail. Here we go. How are they going to move that refrigerator back without fucking up the floor? And that's the game, everyone. They are going to know the one. But they say not the repair guys going to come and fix the fucker. And wherever it is, because I told my he touching that motherfucker anymore. Right. It's going to fuck the floor. Like John said, it's so heavy. When we roll it, it's going to leave big marks in the floor. Right. So I said, you know, I told the door. I said, you know what? I'm getting paid. I'm getting paid. The refrigerator. What's this? How did it come back? I'll do the floor. How did they get it? How did they get it? Yeah. How did they get it? I don't know why. She told me they took it. They took it through the back door. It was impossible. I got the measure. I measured everything. It's no fucking way. Unless they took those doors out completely. They get it out in the fucking house. Because it was a sliding door. I wasn't going to fit, you know, true. But I take the one door off like we used to do. Right. It wouldn't even go through that. I don't know how they got it in it. I have no idea. So I'm out of the whole fucking thing. I just want to get my fucking check. You haven't got paid yet? You haven't got paid yet? You haven't got paid? No. You're not going to get paid. Then I can pay you. Then I can pay you. You watch. So I went there last night to the door shop. I'm sitting down. I thought I was going to get a paycheck. And I was just saying, you haven't even bought it. I said, no, I don't have it. And I didn't even buy it. You know. And you got to finish that spot. I said, yeah, we're going to finish this spot. When you get the fucking frigid right away. I said, what finished this spot? You know what I mean? So I didn't wish you could sit there. I'm going to be like, say, you look a little hype. I was just saying, if I could sit there. I was just saying, I'm alone. I'm alone strong out right now. She said, sit there. Please, can you say my follow is there? I said, I should put you on your list. Why? I started drinking one. Then I'm drinking my dad's house. Then I'm drinking with the old man. He might be a sound. I tell you, true. It's something my dad. Yeah. He even looks like you dad. I can't decide your picture. Because he's 87 years old. He's not even fucking my brother. He wanted you to sit down and watch real fortune. I said, my dad. I said, I mean, that's what he said. You know what I mean? So I tried one glass, two glass, three glass. They goes one bottle. Let's see what's another bottle. Oh, no. I'm sure that the pepperoni, the sour me, the fucking cheese. I'm not. That I'm fucking bomb. So that's like fucking articles like another job. I'm fucking bored in the night. She says, I'm going to order something from Kulta Bazaar. I said, I don't want to eat. I got to get out of here. I got checked. Two bottles of wine. I said, go on. She says, come on. You gotta have been with us. I should have gone. I said, I didn't fucking get it. Give me that bottle. I should have gone. She must have fucking threw the bars. I'll get lost. I'll get back a row of knees. I'll just go. I'll just go. Fuck a sea. It's a sour. They're bread, thyme, but we eat. Dude, fuck it. I was just like, fuck it. Then it's like, fuck it. This is a regular day. This is just like a regular day. That's a regular day. That's a regular day. Bro, this is fucking shit. I have to stick with that. No. They didn't go. They wanted to get this. They wanted to get this. Yeah, that's what I was in the guitar. Six thirty I went there. Bro, I left there 10. Oh, I'm that. I'm like, fuck it. I said, piano friend. I said, I have to be out. I would have been out of believe me. I was saying that. Usually, by that I started singing at that point. By that, I was singing like, you know, songs. It's an opera. Did you hear me? Did you hear what Jimmy just said, though? He said that she even wrote a macaroni. That's what we called. That's what we called. That's what we called. That's what we called. It was Macaroni's with gravy or whatever. My right or wrong, Jimmy. It was Macaroni's if it was like, Compatelies of twists or or regular tone here or whatever. Oh, I was always. It was very good Tony it was very good Tony. It was very good Tony. Ballination. Yeah. But spaghetti was the long one. We always called that spaghetti. Yeah. We always called it Macaroni. Yeah, that's spaghetti. Yeah. It was Macaroni. It didn't matter what style. Right. But nobody called the pasta. And nobody called that shit sauce. It's gravy to us. Right. Yeah, gravy to us. Yeah, gravy to us. Oh, kids. Kids speak fluent Italian. They're like three, four, five years old. Oh, wow. It's diet. You know, it's funny. You know, it's funny is it's how stereotypically normal that evening was. You start drinking. Then they bring out the food. Yeah. We've done food. Then they need more food. Yeah. We've done more food. Yeah. You know how to lean. You don't want to lean after that. So you get about it. My brother was said, my brother was said, You know how you can tell when Italian is coming to dinner. They're ringing the doorbell with their elbow. They're not going to eat. They're not going to eat. Yeah. They're not going to eat. And they always say we don't have enough food. Right. I don't know if we have enough food. They have like 14 courses they bring out. They don't have enough food. That's what that's. Nobody I always just tell my grandmother once she just put it all on table at one time and let everybody you'll realize. No, no, they can't. At the time of the fucking, you know, but if time, you're the shit comes out. You sit and they're going, like, I fucking follow. She's still punctured out of the goddamn other. You know what I mean? They never sit down. They never sit down. They've stayed up to all of me auditioning out. Like, grandmother never sat down ever. And then later on, she was serving the kids. Yeah, she didn't sit down. She was serving the kids. Right. The table, the father. She was up to die. Get more wine. Get the salary. I won't tell the judge. Jimmy, how old was that woman's Stephanie? I've been talking about 40, she's about 41. Wow. And she's serving up Italian meal. Like that. That's a rare occasion. Wait a minute. Here's the real question. Did she get any top of words and give me shit to say calm? Yeah, that's right. I was just going to say that. You know what I have for breakfast is for. I don't look at that. I had a fucking rigoured Tony ball of bass. But he says, I'm going to play. I got up to small ones. I never got making it. I said no one fucked out. I saw the left toes on a bucket. I had two in a time. I was leaving. I was hit. I was hit by truck. I forgot to take the left toes. So I won't. And I finally walked down the house because I was fucking bomb. I mean, my truck she comes running outside with the fucking, kept up to the whole fucking tray, you know. Dum, Timmy please you got to think at all by sabah I give it to me. So I put it on their shoes. Oh no. Now when I've got up per morden I said k gu locates Sarah Jacobs Chandal Raghan, did I look at that tray and I'd go f girlfriends. I won't open his phone. You know what.. You know I have.. You don't idea who you got to get all the left toes on what's that? You know I have to keep Jimmy on the left over. Why? Cause the refrigerator doesn't work. That's not the fashion brat. nd he always been there. Leftovers. That's why I said, did you come home with a top of where full stuff? It's down. All the way. Before you trade, the foreign trade, I came. What would you do in either the next morning, two is the best? The taste better than it. I can call it. I like it called. Like any taste better. It's just some about that the next day you just like pizza. It's a place. It fits out all night. You have after you're making. Oh, it's delicious than next. The oil is in jails. That's why I said that. It's their bacteria and it takes even better. Oh, it's like a probiotic. It's like probiotics, John. Right. It's fermented. Right. Yeah, shit. Those were the days. Natural enzymes. Yeah. Hey, what the other, this we still do it. I mean, that's, you know, that's part of being a talent. And I hate that that's dying out with with us. You know, I'm going to tell you something about a good, a woman who can cook Italian food, they can cook anything. I'll tell you. And I've said this before. My grandmother, when I was, I was dieting for a show and they don't understand dieting. But she had a respected. So I was like, I grandma, I was dieting. I can't have the macaroni. And so she's like, what are you eating? I saw my mom eating chicken breast. I mean, baked potatoes. She made me a meal, John. She didn't use the stitch at oil on it. It was so clean this meal. But it tasted so good. I'm like, how did you make this? What's it? And I started getting paranoid. I'm like, what's in this grandma? I said, it tastes too good. I just pounded the chicken, it's for like six hours. And she just, I don't know, I don't know how she cooked it. There was no oil, nothing. It was the best chicken breast. And you know what it is? I'll tell you what it was. I'll tell you what it was. My grandmother, my grandmother can make a salad with oil and vinegar. And you'll salt. That's what it did to me. It was delicious. It's your hands. It's what it got. It's a food taste to say. I wish the sense that great salad dressing I've ever had in my life. It was just oil and vinegar. She did. She did olive oil. And vinegar. And she did salt, pepper. Like you said, that's all she said, she put on the chicken. I'm telling you it was the best tasting chicken and salad. And potato I ever had. Whatever it tastes, they know what they're doing. Yes. Under the old out of season, they know what the amounts are. Right. My grandmother, my grandma's amazing cook. She had a child main at the Chinese restaurant one time in her life. She said to herself, I think I can make this. I went over to her house one time. She gave me, she made me. She made chicken, chow main on a plate. And I'm looking at a, you know, you know, call out for food. You would never do that in a million years. If you picture it in a town, it'll tell you later. Go ahead. Never fucking have. Never. Okay. So like a way you get to Chinese road. She said, I made it. You made this. It tastes exactly like a Chinese restaurant. Like you couldn't tell with that. Wow. Because they can interpret the taste in our palate. Right. So, you know, it's. You do that shit now. We're low main and fried rice. So, which my girlfriend would have she tell you, I can make it better than Chinese restaurant. You know, what I used to do when I was, when I used to be in my ordering at sage, I used to get the low main with no seasoning. Like, without the oil, I get the low main with white chicken meat in there. You know, and I would add my own seasoning to it. And I'll tell you it was, it was 100 times better because it wasn't so heavy greasy. Yeah. But I love the way they mix the vegetables. The vegetables and the noodles are great. You know, coming to us. Remember, I didn't treat it in seafood. Yeah, that's the place. I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do that. I phone over here. It's sorry. I had it on the fence back there. And the fucking sun, I guess, you know, not me. You know, when you phone over here says temperature bump up on it, just shut your. I was running away. I was trying to show it. I had a show in Tony's freezer box. I just should have fucking made the freezer. You should have gave this some fucking bowl of ice. I'm hungry, bro. I'm hungry too. I've got to bring one other thing up. Just for you guys, just I don't know if you guys have seen it. Obviously, you've never grown up and you watch the karate kid, right? The movie? Yes. The original. We're out. Ralph Machia. Have you guys watched on Netflix, the new series, Copa Kai? No. But I know. The Copa Kai takes place 30 years later. It's the same character. It's the guy who Ralph Machia, a fight at the end of the karate kid, the first movie. And it opens up his own. He's not down on his lock. Ever since getting beat up, he losing that fight at the Ralph Machia. And Ralph Machia is a big car dealer and he's got tons of money. And they have all the same. They brought back a lot of the same characters. It's so good. If you want to feel like you're back in the 80s again, you've got to watch this series on Netflix. It's... I can't stop watching. I watched the whole first season in two, two, three days. It's still... It played the same music. You know, the 80s music. It's so well done because it's a spoof really, but it's not. It's serious at the same time. You guys will love this series. And telling you, I promise you, you'll love it. I've seen... Is that a Netflix name? Yes. Copa Kai, I've seen the coming to... Come in to Josh's. What, Jimmy? I'm telling you, if you like the original karate kid watch this thing, you will be in love with this series. Will Smith did it. He's the guy behind it. It's phenomenal. It's been... It's so good. The acting is so... You'll think that you'll feel so nostalgic watching it. But at the same time, it's... It's actually good. It's well done. Yeah, that's all. When I... When I saw it on Netflix, I saw like the coming, you know, when you do the trail of things. Yeah. And the guy's on a floor. He's sleeping on a floor. And he's dreaming about when Machia would knock them down. Yeah. Yeah. And he woke up on the floor. Is that the one? Yes. Yes. That's exactly it. I've got... The kid who played the... The badass in the other movie, who lost the rap music. He's a great actor. He's the best one in the whole series. Is he still a prick? No. But he... Like life beat him up. He was still driving the same like Kamarro. It's like... He's still living in his place. He's like me. He's like you to me. Basically. Life just beat... Life just beat... Life just beat... But then he comes back and he restarts corporate high. And so you got... I don't want to tell you any more, but watch it. It's really good. It's very good. I'm waiting for fast time to reach my eye. Yeah. Exactly. Doing that thing, I post it on Facebook. I'll tell you why it's so good because it's so whoever wrote it. The writers are so smart that they did it. It's mirrored against the old series. It's very similar. Like he's the guy now who's like the loser in Ralph Machu. He was like the guy who's like got tons of money and to deal with ships and you know. And he's living like a wealthy person. So it's like the roles are reversed. It's pretty interesting. It's pretty interesting. That's what I have to say. That's what I have to say. But it's always the tough guys that end up broke. I don't know what it is. When I was in school, all those little little punks. They're like stock brokeies. And they get old now. Women now. Yeah. Yeah. I was the guy when I was young. I was the tough guy. I was the one who's like me first. I got no body. Yeah. I was like me first. I got no body. Yeah. It's like it's like balancing. Yeah. One of life's little just. Yeah. I get up in a morning sometimes I'm like, what the fuck, man? What happened? Yeah. And you got a good life. You're talking about the way the. What a great day. You're going to trick. Do those guys with tricks when they would go arrogant. Box. You were one of those guys. Yeah. I was never a prick. I was never a bad guy. You're a guy. As tough as you are, you're the hearts like 10 times a size. That's what people are real. That's true. That's true. But speaking of drugs. I was always. I was always helpful to people. I really never trashed people. You know, let's say, you know, accept the guys you beat up in the bar when you were drunk. Yeah. What are you always saying? I'm not surprised. What about the guy in line with the DMV? You beat him up too. Yeah.ric list. Yeah. Cool. Yeah.l skip tier. He was close. He was a� got one. He was a trustworthy job. He was or..... ihren realization. He was a shared right. He Considering People! Get his最eef. That gave us. He was believing his trust.agt. according to no. No. Hey, kid. Go. Get him. I'm coming in the Vemberbro. So as soon as the work dries up, I'm getting a you whole. My bike is going to the back of you and I'm told my Jeep and I'm coming down to your house for a day. All right. I want to make it from my 60th birthday party with that appeal. Yeah, once you come from my birthday dinner. There you go. When is that? I think we're going to... I think my family is coming to 20th week that we can before Thanksgiving. Wow. I wish I could maybe have to do it personally. Okay. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Back up, man. What's the date that they're coming? This is the 20th. Angus and 20th. Let me look. It's the weekend before Thanksgiving. What's your actual birthday, John? November what? Twenty-nights. I'll October twenty-nights. Yeah. Jim, yours is the 20th of November. No, twenty-seven. So what I'm going to do is probably after my birthday. I'm going to head down here, John. So it's... Wow. Just want, want, want. Yeah. No, wait. It's... You're going to see. Hey, Dave, and now I'm coming down by your broth. I'm waiting for the head, my man. Jimmy, November twenty-nights. You wait. My mother was... Yeah, twenty-seven. Jimmy, you bought another property. November twenty-nights. So if you're coming in November, you come in November. You can stay at the horse stable we have now. You can stay at my house. I'll stay at the horse. Look. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. I've already somebody with horse stable's job. You can sleep in air. It's got a bathroom. George, where's we need more cookies. Where are we getting more cookies in the mail? Yeah, what's up with my cookies? I stopped there. Oh, look, he's got a whole tray in the edge.苦aste You know, send them to me Why choka Maka Damya That's my favorite That's all I want I only want another one You know around Just put the fresh maka Damya That one I actually put aside And I'm gonna say if it's another thing here Why? Because I have new cose There's 저는h Killed a magic vacuum Ah, just my t että Keoken Deep Chokeative And a GrandCractor Of coarse Okay Then we could make that taking You're a servant You're a servant I'm a person in those. I'm a Mr. Pots protein dot net. Right on to our right. Great. Oh man. Those those those bounce bars. Oh yeah. I love mount. That one. Those are prototypes. Yeah. I'm going to send you without the link. As soon as our new labels come, then. OK. What about the peanut butter cups? Where's the white chocolate peanut butter cups? I was waiting for it to cool down. George, what are my guys told me he came down to your place and bought cookies. Anthony DeAngelsy. It was said. Somebody. And guy not going to my door. You knocked on the door. How do you find you? I didn't. How do you find you? There's no sign on the door. I don't have no sign out there. I had any find you. Like the people of front said he's here. No one to go. You know, he just told me about yesterday. I was talking to him on it. Because I have a whole comp. It's a whole complex. I got comp case. It's a warehouse. Everything so. How far are you from who? Who parav in you over there? And in my business. Really? Five minutes away from my house. I'm already around that whole area. Who's going there? I'm going down there again. So why don't you stop us, see Mr. G? Get some cookies. I was in. I was older there. Break, you know? If you're going to be there anyway, you could probably get a bunch of cookies. So you'll just take them from them. You know, like going there and take your big, you know. I feel bad because you know, I don't want to take it. I don't have any. Every order that comes in. The order is made. I don't want to just make. Like this is like a hot like if you're going to chef Ramsey, he's not making 20 dishes and what's like a one fish. So when someone puts an order for it, like if they put order, it doesn't. I'm making just that does. Even though like I've 10 other orders, just that one. I guess. That's a problem right there. You're not maximizing your time. Yeah. But if I make it, if I do it and can't imagine 10, it's going to look. It's going to look so fresh. That's fresh, John. That's what. You know what I mean. I just as we can visit your things, just higher and more people. That's all. I mean, I'm upset right. Or what you know, you might need to do. You might have to have like batch dates like in other words, when people are going to order, say, okay, on October 1st, I'm going to be producing this many batches of chocolate chip, peanut butter cup and Macadamian chocolate. Those are the only ones we'll have. What you're order is that now. And then we won't produce another batch for two weeks. And then you know what I mean? This way everything gets done in groups, you know. Well, I got people who want to like, so 80% of our orders are re-ordered. Oh wow. 80%. That's great. That's great. That's great. People order order like today. And then full day is later the order like that. Because they know that at the time they get this second order, they'll be done with their first order. So I kind of really, we kind of really good clientele. I mean, I'm growing the way I want to grow. I don't want to have 10,000 orders at once. Because I want to make sure that the product is what it is. No, that is. It's a high-impact fresh. You know. No, it makes sense. Make sense. All right. Well, if people want cookies, they can go to Mr. Pots protein.net. And you can put your orders in for the jumbo Palombo jumbo lights and all the other stuff that Mr. G. sells. For now, there were out of time. Um, day Palombo for John Ramino and Jimmy the bowl. Greg Valentino and Mr. G. We'll see you next week. I'm not sure baby. It's about being pauses. That's right. Dad, all your people put that kind of stuff on the out. I want to tell the people who see that. People who are up to accomplish your dreams. Don't worry.

It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm day polo and going today is Friday July 6, 2018. It looks fine that what's going on in the world of body building and fitness. Hey, David, if you want to study the history of the world, what you really need to find yourself doing is studying the history of war. And by this time tomorrow, all eyes in the body building world will be on the proverbial war that's about to go down on the Chicago Postage between Surgeo and Liva Jr. and Justin Rodriguez. I don't know if it's been the feud, the haters' fear, or some combination of the three that's been motivating Jayrod over the back half of his prep. But I do know that my people close to the source tell me that he's on track to put together the best look of his career. And with the smoke finally clears at the end of the night show, it'll be a nail bite for sure as to who the last man standing will be. You know when most people think about what it means to win the Olympia crown, what they're really thinking about is standing up their on stage for one night and having their hand raised in front of the crown. But what they fail to realize is that it's the other 364 days of the year that you actually win the title. It's only in the singular moment that they hand you the prize. With six Olympia titles already lining the shelves in his trophy room, you're crazy if you don't think that Flex Lewis doesn't know that already. According to the Lewis camp, Flex has been grinding hard to the never and is quest to become just the sixth athlete ever to be crowned world champion seven stray times. So unless you believe somebody else out there has been hitting it hard of the Flex Lewis over the last 364 days, it looks like the road to number seven is clearer and it's ever been. I like to watch word documentaries on Netflix and it always seems like all the great military leaders have some sort of cool nickname. So I know I'm not the only one out there who thinks William the conqueror of Bonaq has a pretty nice ring to it. Right now the defending Arnold Classic champ looks like he's pulling in every last resource that he's got in preparation for this last stretch of his Olympia run. We're staring down the barrel of a history forced in his own right and defending seven time champion King Phil. But the thing history tells us about every great empire is that they eventually all fall. So for all we can do is sit back and speculate about whether or not this year will be the year that William the conqueror and his forces finally break through the gates. I'm honestly a pretty big fan of everything superhero and I did find myself sucked into the Transformer movies as well, which got me thinking about what kind of weapons we might see flexor trying to roll out of the arsenal this year. Even though the updates have been few and far between rumor hasn't been shown rodent is supposedly on pace to bring the best overall look of his career into this year's big dance. A few weeks ago a little birdie told me that rodent is already way ahead of where he was last year. And considering that 2017 was the first time he dropped out of the top four on the Olympia stage since 2011. I'd say that he's probably right where he needs to be. At this point I'm not sure. What it'll take for any of these guys to slow down Phil Heath, but I do know that a 110% Sean Rodin probably has a good shot as anyone. And finally we'd like to send a big get well soon shout out to our old friend Dennis James earlier this week DJ went under the knife to repair a torn rotator cuff. And take it from a guy who's had bad shoulders from more than two decades now when I tell you that I'm sure this was long overdue. Everything I've heard so far indicates that everything went as expected and DJ is already back home resting up waiting to start PT so we can get started on the road to recover it. And considering how much of a freak athlete James was back when he was at his peak of his powers, it wouldn't be the least bit surprise to these back in the gym doing crazy. Dennis James things again by this time as September rolls around. And that does it the end another edition of Bustle in the morning. I'm Dave Pullambo reminding you always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

10th and 9th You're my and our Every for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the truth But we can't be Lombon Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle What are you? What's up? Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio On Dave Alumbo and I'm joined As always by the Technician Chris Asito on this September 21st 2020 evening and Chris We're getting closer and closer to The Olympia time and we had Another big pro show this Best weekend or at least a Classic physique a pro show We'll talk about a little bit And the bodybuilding world Is kind of moving into September now And it was weird because You know this is the weekend That usually we go to the Olympia And I was getting a lot of things Popping up on my Facebook timeline Sticks is a UND I even put one up there And you had a funny comment But you know isn't it weird It's a Olympia time Normally and there's no Olympia Yeah it's totally weird It's just It's just You know it's odd Now that it's hit me like It's going to be December 20th Right By the time you come home from the Olympia whatever it's the 21st And I don't know what I'm going to do Like Quarantine in my house Because I'm going to go You know, quarantine two weeks I just don't bet in December Yeah Yeah You know So and who know you know It's just I mean there's still a lot of unknowns The shows coming up and Is there going to be an audience at the show I guess it's a big question of the week You know people have been talking about Rob A. Letton audience be at the show That's the question I guess that's a little bit more detailed Question is will City of Las Vegas So if I was state of Nevada Allow people to Right Come into You know I was watching football today Chiefs came I'm like oh there's an audience No it's just pipe didn't noise Like from the loosey I really that's weird Yeah that's a strange You know what I mean And it was like the crowd Just like the crowd was there And then it pan the audience And then there be nobody there That's bizarre Yeah That's kind of a little strange I You know It's weren't really in a brave new world I guess you could say I mean it's it's not there's nothing I know the world I cry Yeah We got this Right Yeah yes We still got a seat Blackman now to make fun of Yeah You know You know there's this guy online And we've talked about this before The channels I don't even want to give many kind of credit But he does some funny stuff My sugar daddy is still controlling His name is a channel It seems like it's a channel devoted to me for some reason He always is clipping old stuff A mine and putting up videos of mine I don't know what his obsession was mean But it's alright at least It's usually done in a positive light So I'm fine with it I can complain to the YouTube And tell the take the stuff down But I don't because you know I don't it doesn't that Doesn't I nothing really affects me Anywhere I don't really care about anything But he found a video He did like a It was called Steve Blackman versus Steve Blackman impression You saw you started right So you know what I'm talking about It's basically Steve Blackman doing some Ridiculous like videos that he does Nowadays That don't even know a lot of people It's seen and then there's like me doing an impression of him Like you know But the puppet with the blackman puppet It's like It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really It's really great Yeah because I can't Yeah, I can't make sure I can get the audio Like I had the high behind the puppet Because I was laughing too much Yeah I didn't make I just want people to I didn't make this This this is completely This guy Yeah It's not a creative content The current creative content The Vard's most ever There it is I thought it was like a tick talk Video with like a Like a voiceover or something I want I want it to play I hope you can people can get the audio but it's the best part. This is the most important right now I gotta make sure they can play the audio hold on. I wasn't sure. This was Miami a long island. I don't know where he is here. Hold on music. We can full screen. Can you see full screen? Yeah, there we go. I'll hold on. See you soon. I mean first thing is I can't hear the volume. Can you hear it? No. But I've listened to it so I know what he's gonna say. Gosh, it's even funny without the video. Look at the facial look. It's funny with first you're gonna watch him with Delphine, right? Hi, Affect facial expression. It's almost like a WWE off like the Grand Wizard or the you know, Freddie Glasse. Like very aggressive delivery. The research shows. How do I get the audio? The play? I figured it out before. I don't know what he did here. People are gonna comment on Dave Keating. We get the audio to play. I want my money back. Oh, that's right Dave. You don't charge anything from to watch a Delphine radio show. Anabadiol. Speaking of money back. I hear a lot of people wanted money back from that paper review Dave. Which one? The Cal Pro. Really? Yeah, a lot of people. Like majority at her. Wow. They're honoring it, too. They are. I hear it. Yeah, I heard. I was gonna ask my money back and I'm like, I just don't even have the time to get on the phone and send emails. I have to, I didn't, I didn't know contribute. I shouldn't, but I didn't. I wasn't going to watch the whole thing. I didn't really want to do it. But it wasn't a 20 bucks. I would definitely pay the money. I just started. I think I paid the bill. I would do it. I would pay it pretty much up to 100 bucks to support, you know, the live streams because I think that that's important in 2020 because people can't go see the show. And I don't want these promoters to not want to hold the show. But if you're going to charge, if you're going to charge a premium, though, you have to make sure that the production value is good. If you charge five bucks and the thing doesn't look that great, no one's going to complain. Right? I think my room is dark as the the pre-jet you was. I was going to turn all my lights off and do the radio show. But you know what I'm saying? In other words, if you have a, there might be a better business model charging less money and not, this way people's expectations are not as high and you might get more people, you know. Like if you're streaming something of super quality, you can you can charge a super price. Right. Well, if you're streaming something of terrible quality, again, end up giving people their money back. It's like going to a restaurant to get some reason our chef was blind today. Right. Well, look at, I mean Gary, you did a pretty good job. I mean he had a nice live stream, which was free by the way for the, for the, uh, I think he probably made a lot more money than they did at the, at the Calthrow, but because he had all those, those people in the show. But it was free, but he was streaming from a tent. Okay. So think about what the challenges of getting a good Wi-Fi and a tent are in a middle of a parking lot, Chris. Yeah. So I think he did, that should be, it's commendable, you know, but he was able to pull that off. Speaking of good promoters, I hear through the grapevine, Chris. I don't, I have no confirmation yet, but I hear through the grapevine that my good friends thief Carol, who's really not my good friend. I've been boycotting the NPC nationals going there, not the shell, but going there because he's the promoter of the last couple years. I hear he's not doing the nationals this year. It's been no one's really talking about it. It's been very quiet. I actually text a jam. I didn't hear back from him yet. So I'm not giving, I can't give you official stuff, but here's, let me see if I can pull up the video where he tried to have your recipe in the past. No, yeah, that's another time. But here's when you wait, when you can, when you can confirm it, then you can post that. Okay. Here's the new website, NPCchampionship.com. Okay. Now the, the old website was something different. This is the new website. So that means that, and I don't see stone cutter anywhere. And I hear through the grapevine that pad bets is doing it with someone else. I think I heard Joe Pishkula, who is, I wanted the district chairman in Florida. I don't know if that's true or not, so I don't want to put out any false information, but I, I think Carol's out. I think they got rid of him finally. I hope they did, which means that at some point not this year, but in the future, I will be going back to the NPCnashals again, because I, I feel that this is the right way to do it. They're, they're looking out for the athlete. They finally cleaned out. They told me they were going to get rid of them, but they said, you know, it wouldn't happen to me. They might have had a contract with them, Chris, for a couple years. Yeah. But he was bad news for that show. He was just bringing it down. He would, you couldn't, you bought a ticket. The tickets were 100 bucks for like pre-judging, because you buy a ticket. You, you couldn't come back in if you wanted to go out and get a soda for yourself or something like that. Yeah, you had to pay 100 bucks. Yeah, you have to buy another ticket. Yeah, that was not a great, really, really taken care of the people who buy tickets that show. Now it doesn't have to worry about it, because there's no one allowed to go in the show, right? You know what, he, he, he really did himself in, because just the fact that he had me, you know, escorted out by security, because I was back, because I was backstage legit, and I was interviewing people, I've got permission from jam, so he decided to kick me out and make a spectacle. But I have the video, I could still put it on the video. I have put the video up. I actually videoed Tyler video, and me as it was happening. I never put it up. So maybe now that he's out. Yeah, you show me, I think that, man, I'm putting up his like, just for, for posterity's day. Yeah. But you know what, they did a good job. I got to, I got to, I got to be, I don't know who's behind all this. I don't know if it's since Tyler, you know, man, he's gotten in there, which is, Jay, I'm son in the Jim, man, he's grandson. Now that he's the vice president in there, and you know, some people might not like that because he's young, but I think it's good. I think young ideas are good for the sport, and I think it's now that he's in there, and he sees some of this crap that was going on. I think he's like, hey, Grandpa, let's get, let's get these guys out of there. Let's get some fresh blood in there. I want, I want this, I want this, organization to grow. We're not going to grow with these guys that think that they're, you know, back in the 1980s still running these shows. I mean, he says, I think Atlantic City, and when John Ray won, if it was up to him, he wouldn't even have online registration. He'd still have you feel like, remember that little, that little piece of paper you had to fill out? You had to send it to like either Sandy Rinaly, if you're a woman, or Williamson, and if you're a guy, I had to send it to Peter Potter. And you had a bank check, and it was right, you know what that? Yeah, self-adjust stamped envelope. Yeah. Something crazy like that. What are you drinking over there? I'm drinking, you know what I'm drinking? This is, I can't give you the, I can't tell you what it is, but this is a, a meano evolved, the new flavor, one of the new flavors we're working on. It's a, it's a secret, but it's delicious. I'll send you something. It's really good. You kids will drink it like it's cool. They're, that's how good it is. I've got no carbs. It's well, just amino acids in there. We have two new flavors. I have a really, come out of the new flavors. Yeah. I have two new flavors coming out of a amino evolved. I have two new flavors of isolice too. What do you have for us? What are you guys doing? One of them I can tell you, but I'm going to tell you the one that I know you're going to lie. No, no, I'm not going to tell you that. No, I'm going to tell you that. I'm going to tell you the one that I realized flavors you have, because I decided to make it one of my, I had vanilla chocolate vanilla peanut butter, chocolate peanut butter cinnamon donut. I have caramel macchiata, which is really like, like a almost a coffee tasting one, but not really. I have a cookies and cream, which I think we might, we might not do that one. We might not renew that one, because we have these two new flavors coming out temporarily. I'll tell you this, every single flavor that I have introduced, I drove my flavor guy absolutely insane when I did it. To the point where he almost, you almost fired me. Like I said, if you can't do it, you can't do it. That's all. I gave one of those and then that made him work harder. Because I really want flavors to taste really that good. And it's, you know, you have to sometimes, and the flavor systems are expensive. You know, the better the flavors get the more expensive it gets. You know, when you, when you go to the store and you nestle this quick, you know, and all these things, you take for granted. These guys are spending millions of dollars in development of their flavors. And they taste test and safety McDonald's. When you go to, you think the McDonald's hamburger started out tasting as good as it did. There's a seasoning, they put a seasoning in there that their own, you know, proprietary formula that that's what makes those hamburgers taste so good. A regular piece of beef doesn't taste like that. So, you know, you have to, you know, if you're going to sell a high grade way, I say, which has no sugar and no fat and it, you know, lactose, you kind of have an artificial flavoring system that is just fucking stellar. No one's been used to produce. I was going to slice what is the number one selling flavor. Chocolate, I always is. Yeah, it's fun and simple. Chocolate, chocolate peanut butter. Because that's the most popular flavor. But it's, and, and I think they're terrific. I have a terrific chocolate and terrific, good chocolate. I mean, but I wouldn't say it's my best flavor, because I'm not a chocolate person, but I can drink it every day if I had to. I like vanilla peanut butter a lot. I like, um, I like caramel macciata. If I'm in a cinnamon-y mood, I've cinnamon doughnut is amazing. Speaking, you know what? I'm a vanilla person. I could do vanilla every single day and never, never change a flavor. But there's more. My mind's jumping from five to five to see a part told you before. What happened with that? I haven't gone for my gum this week. So, today, which is Monday, I had to go for, I have to go for my COVID testing. They're going to stick a thing up my neck. You know, they, I didn't know this. They, like, basically touch your brain stem with this lightning that they see. Yeah, they're going to see it. And that's how they get the, that's how they test your for COVID. So, I have to get that, because I have to get the colonoscopy done at the hospital. What do you have to prove that you're a COVID-19? Yeah, you have to do that. Yeah, now, obviously, you know, I want to take for the results to go back. I don't know. It's a good question. Probably a day or two. I don't know if they do fast testing at the hospital. So, I got to drive all the way to, it's like in maple. So, I'm driving like an hour tomorrow morning. Yeah, you're swine biology. How come we can't get a COVID test that you can just spit on the stick and, you know, because evidently, the thing doesn't live in your saliva, it lives up here and, and you know, nasal cavity there. So, I got to make sure they get the right area where it's, it's, it's, it's hanging out. Yeah. I know people that are already involved, I don't even, if I could say the person's name because I don't know if you want to be disabled, who's already ready, he's ready to get the vaccine already. I told me, he's crazy. Which vaccine? The COVID there's a COVID vaccine already. Well, there's a few that are working on. I know someone is talking to the thing, again, I said, you're ready, you're mine. He's like, why? He's got going to be, I have access to it. I said, access to it. You're going to be a getting picked. They don't know, they don't know the state. They've got enough people to take any. And even in these studies, there are only a couple hundred people that they're testing. I would wait until, you know, people have used it for a year, at least. I went to the pharmacy today to pick up a prescription they wanted to give me a flu shot. I said, I don't want a flu shot. Like people giving them for free today or something like that. But yeah, I said, I don't want it for free. Anything that doesn't cost anything is usually, gets me very suspicious. I said, yeah, I said, I'm not sick. I don't go anywhere. I said, but what do I need a flu shot for? I always tell my kids when someone offered you something very asked for two. Yeah. By Frank, even Tasto, he won't let anyone pay for anything. He says, I don't want to owe anyone anything. He's on a blind date. I have a day of his when next month, when to flu, when to flu season really start. I don't know. The fall, yes, right? Yeah. I'm in Florida. There's no fall here. Still 95 degrees. Once these schools in the United States heard the area, I have five or six kids who stay home because of the flu and they're eating it. They're missing them. That and they call and they say, you know, Johnny's not coming to school because he's sneezing and aching and then school's because they couldn't be covered. They're going to shut everything down. Yeah, you're right. Right. It's crazy. Anyway, we had a sort of body building. We had to show this week. We did. The NPC hard came. Let me pull that up. Where was where was that child gave? It's a good question. Clear water floor right in the online corner right in the corner for me. Yes, there you can see it from your friend. Where was that? I don't know, Dave. Oh, clear water. Same neighborhood as me. Yeah. Well, it's about an hour, about an hour and a half north of me. And let's take a look at those scorecards. There we go. You know, I'm glad the holding shows. I think a lot of guys are missing the boat. Look, there's not that many guys in the show and this isn't a lumpy of qualifier here. Peter Scallow wins this from West Palm Beach, right here in Florida. Second place, Arturo Mendez and third place is of Vladimir Saisoff, who used to be a bodybuilder if you remember. Remember, Vladimir was the guy who does those the Circus Act, you know, where he spends, it does all the crazy acrobatic. Bob, I'm Graskin with Saisoff, it was cookie process. I, you know, he's got to be, he's got to be in his 40s this guy. And he's placed in top three in the classic of the show, you know, that's pretty damn good. But well, you know what Dave, it's easy to say. It is easy to say like, oh, you know, people should have showed up, it was an easy, you know, people could have qualified for the LMPR, but the fact of matter is, is a lot of people that I know who are getting ready for shows, pull the plug and they pull the plug because of course shows were delayed or canceled, but then they ran out of money. I mean, just like, not ran out of money. Nine of you said, nine of you said, if they were doing personal training, like it, like, oh, I'm doing it down my garage, but I used to have like 35 clients and I have like five. No, I know what you're saying. I know exactly what's Peter Scallow out there, what's your impression of him? He's from the front. He's diced. It looks very good. I'm impressed. Yeah, me too. A lot of muscle, a lot of muscle maturity. That's not a good picture of them. Actually, the front last spring, that's a decent picture of them. I think he's, you know, he's he's got to be a dark horse, you know, I'll pull up into the picture of him. He's got to be a guy that, you know, people didn't see coming. I think our tour of Mendez, the second place guy was really good, too. Yeah, I did too. Pull him up now because, uh, yeah, he looked good. The guy got second. He's guys are in good shape. I did the class. I gotta say the classic guys are I've never seen a classic show where the winner was at a shave. Did you? It's like, 2012. Yeah, I mean, because, you know what, you know, I did because, I mean, it's when you're doing open bodybuilding, you still have in the back of the mind. I gotta be the big and I understand that because, you know what, a lot of times shows, you know, we kid and you say, you love to say shows and what on conditioning. Sometimes they're not. They're just one on size. Then, let's show. You know what I mean? So, some of them can say, God, you are just crazy conditioned. You know, why didn't you win? They said, well, the guy, you know, who won wasn't really hard, but he was, you know, really big. So, when it comes down to classic or, or let's, yeah, classic, I mean, you, you, by definition, you know, it's not about being big. So, you have to be in super position. Yeah. And the same thing goes for, I mean, the two 12 of the courses is a scale. So, yeah, looking a lot of my size of look at good. Yeah, he looks good too. Yeah, it was a good show. I wonder if he did one of those crazy, uh, acrobatic, uh, posing routines. That would have been cool. That, that's worth him. That gives you money's worth, right there. You know, yeah, he looks good. He, um, he'll teach transition good from open, you know. I mean, because it's amazing that guys could bring themselves down to that, because I, you know, I, who's feeling, embody building, once you, you know, you, um, you like kind of, blow up, try to, yeah, try to lose the muscle. It never leaves like your waist, like you never get ever, oh, yeah, of course. You know, what, when you blow up and you, you work backwards, you end up with usually a worse physique because you, you better figure. That's almost right across the board. Yeah, it's like you can't, you can't go backwards almost, you know. Yeah. Two people can. I like this guy who came in 4th to Tim Tevin. We're pulled picture of him, hold on. Lee Bank did. Oh, Lee Bank was there? No, no, but when he came down, he, yeah, he looked good too. And he was natural supposedly, right? I'm sure he was. I'm sure. You didn't help. You helped him when he wasn't natural. Yeah, but he, that's why you know, that's why you know that you know that he doesn't really need a lot of help. I can always say, you know, what he did not use, which people would say, oh, you're so full of crap. Right. Come on. Yes, he, what he did not use, not what he did use, what he did not use with Chuck you. He did leave Banks as a geetic freak out too. Yeah, very useful to seek to for he still, you know, if you want to compete with your, he, he, he probably got a gun good in the show. I think so. Oh, we pulled Tim Tevin here. Yeah, I'll take a look at my side with my reading glasses. There's Tim. What's up? Fourth place. Yeah, he's in condition. Yeah, I think all these guys were ripped. I love it. I like when I see the guys that are shredded to the bone. It makes he feel like, you know, at least these guys are doing their job. Yeah. And then there was a, there was a show in the, Texas too. The hard of Texas. They had a, um, I don't think they had a, um, I think it was a master's of that home. I'm going to go this. They had a mast. Oh, this is a master's classic physique. Lorenzo, general friend Lorenzo Jones won that to the Chris. Yeah. I love the Lorenzo Jones. He's one of the greatest characters in our business. Still bad. Yeah, he's still. He's got to be in his, he's definitely in his 50s. He's not in his easy. Right. Yeah. I don't know. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, some guys bodies just hold up better than others. I think I'm, I think every day I wake up. I think this something else wrong. I hit per place. Maybe this I'm almost like, I'm, I'm worried. I get worried like I'm like, oh, but then I realize that, you know, you know, you're 52 things are not going to feel like 100% over time. Yeah. I go for no tissue there. I go for no like massages with COVID and three kids who has time. Is it a funny, you're finding out enough money to actually get the things that you need and you don't even have a time to do it. It's the ultimate irony, isn't it? Yeah. I'd love to go to the Chiropractor like three times a week and get a massage once a week. And I can afford to do it. And I can't even, first, I can't find anyone who's a good massage therapist around here, but that's to get that. I just don't whys the time to do it, you know? My good friend Tom Ocarman, I'll give you a plug-tongue, and Maui, who I came into town here in Florida and gave me a massage man. He brutalized me. I, I, I, I, I forgot what it was like to get a good massage. This was a, well, going back a year ago. He came because he was visiting in the file for the area. And I'm like, man, do I need that? Well, that's why I gave I made fun of you. I'm not, I never go to Facebook. I went to Facebook to look up some of my other pictures. Yeah. And I thought it was a fake, I thought it was a fake person because you never go in Facebook. And in a, in a puff up on me of a picture of me in New York, it was like four years ago when I said the first thing that came to remind is, that's when David tons of time. No kids. Nothing. There would ever I wanted every weekend. And I was never bored. You know how people say, oh, I'm so bored. I was never bored. Yeah. I'm still amazed how people with kids nowadays, I see these guys travel every weekend. And it's nothing. It's one thing for us to leave you kids. But, you know, during these these time where, you know, you don't really, you know, you could catch COVID and bring it back. And it's like, you can't walk around scared. I agree. But at the same time, you know, you got to, you know, there's got to be some modicum of, you know, you have to be a little worried, right? I mean, you're not going out every weekend. I mean, I understand you're going to a couple of shows. That's fine. But you're not going out every single weekend. Yeah, they were just, who made? Yeah. Yeah. What? What? So much to can't find. I know. I'm saying, yeah. I can't find a mask on like the like scaredy cat almost like people would be like, oh, you know, where I'm at, you know, okay, I'll wear it. I'm worried about it. Did I ever, did I on this show that we talked to, did I say that picture someone posted or gave me from the set of Batman? Did I ever post that? No. I'm going to be really pulled that up for my first. I'm making sure I'm the set. No, and back in the 90s, there was a, um, let me say a little. There was a kit, let's see the name of it. There was a casting call and they would, they were casting for Batman, the movie, the third Batman movie with Val Kilmer and I'm going to be Jones. Jimmy Jimmy the bowl. There's Jimmy the bowl, right? Is that out, you girl, lead to the left? Out, you girl, lead to the left. Yeah. So you probably won't know anyone else. Is that you to the rear right? Yeah. Yeah. And then in the middle, I have no idea what that is. Yeah, I forget everyone else is, but this is the one guy all the way in the back of the left is he was 19 years old. I was training him at the gyms, I met Mike Naples. They need to one more guy and I called him up. I said, get your ass over here. I said, you want to be on Batman movie. He, the kid almost got to an accident coming to the set because he was like so excited. Actually, my friend RJ was, I don't know where he is in the picture. I don't see our picture. I was probably never wanted to film our acting date. I, you know, Al Q was convinced that he was going to make it in Hollywood after this movie. I said Al Q were extras. We were well paid extras because you couldn't even see us. They had masks on our face. I said, Al Q, no one's going to know who you are. I said, I said, it was great because they were paying us. It was night, they filmed all the Batman was a film that night. So they had a past night differential and then they was stunt paid because we were doing like games or stuff. Tell us what you were paying for this, for example. For two weeks, I think I made like about three or $4,000, which was a lot of money, you know, for me back then, you know. And I had to be there six at night. You get there to six in the morning. Now, half, one of the first week we had to go to Wall Street. I had to be there. That was a pain in the next. I think the train, you know, a cab. But then the other, the second week, we were actually out of Long Island at like a mansion they were filming at. So that was like 20 minutes from my house. That was nothing. We could drive that. My girlfriend at the time would drop me off. And then pick me up at six in the morning. And it was all night. And basically, you know, Chris, they had this, they have craft services, which is, you know, for big movies, they have food being catered 24 hours a day, you know. And when I talk about food, I'm talking about the best quality food that you can possibly ever eat more. And they had everything there because sure they got, I think I timelyly, Jones there, they got Jim Carrey there. And these guys are in trailers, you know, they are they got to be fed and in the staff and the whole, you know, it's a multi-million dollar movie. It's probably cost them 150 million to make the movie. So there was no, there was nothing spared. And I basically, Chris, basically 90% of the time we were there, we did nothing. We just sat around. So all right, we're sitting. All I did was eat. I ate every hour I was eating. Did you talk about training? Oh, yeah, yeah, we've talked about it. We talked about everything. But I sat there. These other guys were like sleeping. They were like, they were like, they were like, they were just both. No one was, yeah, I'm like, no one's eating. I'm like, are you guys bodybuilders? I know Jimmy the bull. He's hot dogs. But I was eating every hour in the hour. I probably, I think I gained 10 pounds. You know, muscle when I was there. You think I paid 3 grand a gain 10 pounds? Yeah, I ate so much food. Everyone was looking at me. Like I always had to play to food. They were like, and the great thing was I had that leather jacket that was part of my costume. So it wasn't like I had a, it was like I had to have like a tank top on and I had to worry about my stomach being like full of food. Didn't that? You know, I was being paid to be a big, you know, biker guy. So why didn't you pursue acting after that? Because you know what, I was stifest typecast. I did a lot. I did a lot of commercials. I had about, I landed like four commercials. One really popular one I've talked about the moment, Howard Stern's wife, ex-em satellite radio commercial. But I was, I was typecast, so I couldn't get anything because I would have had a lose, you know, like 50, 60 pounds of muscle if I wanted to get into the movies. And I just wasn't willing to do that. I was obsessed with body, but I probably should probably would have been good. But you know what, it's such an acting, it's such a like sporadic thing. And it's so like it's whether these, these casting directors like you, it's like, and they, they don't even know what they're looking for. You go in there for a casting call. I go in for a big freaky body. This is the part. I'm like, who's going to get this in New York? I'm going to get, it's either going to be me or Frank Zephy or, or, or, or, draw a denty. Those are the three big guys at the time. And I was the biggest guy of all of them. Drawed probably had the, the best crossover look because he was like a good looking guy and he, and he was a marketable looking guy. And Frank, Frank was like the pretty boy type of thing. So it depends on what part they want. So they want, I never got the body part. I don't think any of them did either. We, we would get like the football player part. I guess you guys were too big. The guy right, the men's physique guy's got the body. Yeah, exactly. It's the one on men's physique. It's the one on men's physique. It's the one on two intimidated. For, they didn't know what a big body, but they thought a big body, but it was a guy like who did men's physique. And so I would get, like I said, wrestler or bodybuilder, bodyguard, I did a commercial, a comes commercial that never had, but they paid me anyway. And it was me, I think I, there was a guy from the New York Giants, and there was all fat comedians after that. I left my ass off for like three days we filmed in Jersey at this diner. And all we did was eat, again, once again, eat and crack jokes. These guys, I made friends with these. I just still to this damsel of friends with them. They were the funniest guys that I've ever met. Big fat comedians. So, why didn't it ever end? It comes for a fair. Because they didn't, if somebody's native pick it up, I don't know. It was weird. I don't know. They just, I thought it was a great commercial. I thought it would have been hysterical. Who has some most commercials out of a bodybuilder, a bragma? He had a couple. I don't know how to do it. Yeah. Well, just like in some sort of, there are dead thing landed. It's some really good commercials. He made a lot of money back in the day. I know that for a fact. He did, but he did way better than I did. Yeah, who's your agent, Steve Lines? Mike Lines, you know Mike, Mike, you can handle all of us. But, George did really well for himself. This a couple of I do. You know, he did a lot of commercials that Kelly, muscle did a lot of commercials too. That can a couple of years ago. So, to get into acting though, you have to lose. Nowadays, muscle, you can't have that much muscle and get into acting. What's happening with Kyle Green and his acting? Oh, is he still doing the Friday show? I don't know. It's a good question. I should check that out. See if he's doing the the kind of in variety show. You probably stopped it. I told I they should have into the kind of variety show like on the Olympia stage. Yeah, one, they could do it. They could he had that one man show, right? Yeah, you did. This is more like a Karabonet show. I think I thought I loved it. I know you loved it, Dave. They became a big fan of the guys when Kyle came out with the talent show. The variety show. He got the shows as verks. I always said that he should have his own. He should be on Broadway. Really? He should be on Broadway because... Still young enough. I guess. I mean, I don't see the recurring variety show anymore. Maybe he can't. Let's do it. He's doing some posing. Oh, his new variety show is this it? Oh, that was two months ago. No, I don't think he has a new episode. You know what? He must have spent six months filming that first episode. He takes too much time to put together one. It's got it. It's got a Chris. There's no doubt about it. There's no way he could do that in a short period of time. Anyway, so what's your prediction for the fight? Remember in Rocky? What's your prediction for the fight? Pain? Which fight? For the Olympia. What's the, it's a high-risk shape enough? What are you thinking? I think I'd like, like I said, I think some of the bill's check versus Brandon's got a crew himself. You know, did you see that picture they posted a Brandon? He looks like he's like 500 pounds. That a good sign or bad sign? It's a good sign because he probably can come down. Yeah, it's got a lot of time. You know, the Brandon's phenomenal phenomenal and it's made such amazing progress. The danger with fillers that he's beat everyone all the time most. And the other danger with fillers, people forget because he wasn't in the show last year. His level of cartoonish roundness. You know what I mean? He's remarkably round and you can't nobody's going to outround him. Does that make sense? Yeah, the only way like Roden could slip by, which I think he's slip by twice in eight years. Ten years, whatever, is that Roden has extraordinary clients that look like something greater than times when they're all put together on a totally shredded physique of that experience. He's got a bigger bigger structure. He's got a bigger structure. He's got a very big structure, which people don't realize. But I guess what I'm saying is it's hard to negate that crazy roundness. Look, look at this picture. This is his first day of crappy post of the picture. Yeah, look around he is. Look at that. That's pretty good. It looks pretty good to me, right? He's pretty lean now, actually. I think you'd like that shirt he's got too. I'm a homo and I'll issue her. I love it. But I was an oddly famous when no one was an alley fan. That was a little kid. Yeah, look at his big. I mean, it doesn't look at his name. Chinks in the armor right there. That's true. Maybe maybe fresh as well, you know? Sometimes taking time off, taking time off either works for you or works against you. One of the two, it's no 50-50. Well, he took off by his own, you know, his own. He didn't wasn't forced to take off, you know, so. But what I mean is he had a rest of full long time period your rest. And that he is good for you. Yeah. It doesn't work. It's either good or bad. There's no middle of the road. Now you're right. You're right. I've judging from that picture. It looks like it may be good. It looks very good to me. What do you think? I think that he's going to be very dangerous. How do you think flex Lewis does? That's what I was going to ask you next. Now, you know, it's funny because flex Lewis is what is he? Five foot six? Yes. Five six. I mean, I mean, fills considerably told them that. I mean, fill, and I never, you know, we don't consider fill a very tall body. I've not even. Yeah. I mean, I love the show. I'm going to pop a good shot of flex Lewis all of a sudden. I don't post that. This is an Instagram back picture. Yeah, I love that. Thanks you. I'm like that. I just had. It's like a smoke dory in there. Yeah. You know, you know, I'm going to predict a bit. I talked about, yeah, that's it. Yeah, I know. It's a great shot. That's from two years ago. It's great picture. Yeah. I talked about the phone today. Oh, you did. We would just start. Yeah. Second time I've talked to him ever last time. He called you and you called him. He called me. Oh, because oh, because what's his name? Come out of the day, man. Well, you can't get into the country, so he needs me to fry them. He needs you to. You have a lot of technique. That was dope. He has Neil right here. Look, Neil. He has my puppet. Oh, Yoda. Did I send you that? I don't know. Someone sent that to me. Yeah, I think I sent it to him. No, because Flex is wonderful man. He really, he, he, he, listen to this. So he invited Kamal and he invited Kamal. He told Kamal, you better come over here now because you don't know what's going to happen with COVID and what if rules change and they say like you can never come. You know, right. No, Kamal told me that on the interview we did with them. He said he's going to be in there. Yeah, Flex invited him to train with him. They're going to train together, which is good to have because Flex and him and I competing at each other, so there's no real rivalry there anymore. So Kamal had to go to Turkey and stay there for two weeks before he flows. Right. He, I think he flew yesterday. Oh, so he's he should be in town by now. Yeah, and the in the interim Flex called me last week and he said, what's happening with a son? I just figured, well, if he's asking, he must know him. Right. And I said, oh, he's just, he's just beyond shot. I mean, he's, he's shot like shot. What happened with the whole, um, the whole, um, you know, hammering thing is it. Well, yeah, you know, Dave, he's just, he sent me some pictures like like two days after the cow pro and this is like from the new pro to the, this is, like his, his, from being a hospital. He's been in the hospital, of course. And they he's going to rebound off the diuretics and all that stuff. So, um, anyways, Flex had invited him down to said, I, I wanted to see if he wants to come down here and stay with me for a while and train. And very nice of him. Yeah, I said, I, I'll answer for him. 100% yes, but just in case, I'll send text message to Hassan, who doesn't speak English and he'll put it through Google translation. And he's going to, yeah, two seconds later, he said, yeah, yeah, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, so he's on his way down. Oh, so, so Flex is putting up the tour of them at the house? Wait, he's not putting him up. They're just staying in the neighborhood, you know? Okay, okay, yeah, I was going to say, but I would never be allowed to keep it in my house. It's like, it's like, you know, how you when you're kid, you're bringing home a little kitty cat from the neighborhood and your parents are like, no, bring it back. Well, third kitty cat, which Flex misses, is Raphael because Raphael was up there for a long time. How I did know that? Raphael Brandel, trained there? Yeah, and Raphael was there and making like, outstanding, whacking progress. Right. Look at John Del Rose did really well. You're going out there. And we'll get to John. And then, so Raphael was loving it being there and then he had to go back to Brazil. And once he got to Brazil, they said, you can't go back to the States because of the United States. Yeah, it should never have left. Yeah, I didn't want to say to him. I didn't want to say, but he had a family issue, you know, can you sky, you know, do an Arnold? You know, an Arnold and Papa and you know, my mom's gonna die. Yeah. So he's trying somehow to come back. So that means Flex was kidding and saying, you know, I got all the guys you work with, I got Hassan, I got Raphael, I got Kamal, I said, we have my ex also, my ex. Who? Del Rose? Oh, Del Rose. He was joking about that. But anyways, I'm shocked that these guys could afford to stay in hotels and train out there with Flex or whatever. I think they're going, you know, you can get a farm. I guess, but it's expensive. They're not making any money. I mean, I guess if they have contracts, some of these guys they can like unjustify it. Yeah. No, everything is expensive, right? Everything's expensive. We know it a lot of times. There's some of these places. There's no gyms available. You can't train. So you go to Flex, as you're going to, you're training at his gym, you know, next year, no the, well, Florida doesn't care if you have gyms open. So that's good for him anyway. But if you were in another state, someone would have ratted Flex out and they would have come through his gym and try to like, you know, shut it down. Loats is on private gym. Yeah. So so anyways, um, I love Flex. I think it's a great guy. Except the guy said he hasn't, he hasn't lived up to his fulfillment of coming on my show and letting me interview him. He's been talking about. He didn't want to be there. He didn't like, I don't have any time. He didn't like. No, because he wanted me to come down to the gym and I was going to, but then the whole COVID thing. And you know, you know, I have no time to do anything. So the question is, we spoke, I mean, how's he going to do in the air? Yeah, more what do you think? Yeah, what do you think? I think I say top five for sure. Oh, it doesn't doubt. Yeah. With always shadow on the doubt. And, uh, you know, the stars could line up. I told him when he told me that he didn't even know her son any, I didn't know. I said, I think he can win just based on karma. Ha ha ha, I can't. But you know, it's, it's a show of all weaknesses. And of course, Phil and Brandon technically don't really have any and people can't say those stuff. It's not a weakness, really. I mean, it's just only a weakness when he's standing next to Rome. You know, you know, the, the question is really, I mean, Flex looks great standing alone. And when you see these pictures, he really has, he's really brought his physique up to a point where he doesn't really have any weaknesses. But, you know, when you put him in a line up against guys, you know, now you start exploiting structure and there's other aspects, intangibles, that, you know, a lot of people see Sean Rodin and pictures and they're like, well, he's good, but he's not great. You sent me these up, they pictures have been before these. And he's like, okay, but you see him in a line up. And it's like the guy just makes everyone look bad, you know, it's time. It's time. Brandon carries the same way. He looks way better in line up than he does standing alone in pictures. He's not overwhelming by any means in terms of muscularity or conditioning, but he's impressive when he stands next to guys because his structure is so good. Structures phenomenal and he's round and he gets, he gets hard enough. I mean, yes, I mean, he gets hard enough. I wouldn't say. If he comes in with the conditioning that he added the Arnold when he won last year, I think he's going to be very dangerous. I think he's going to be dangerous even in the film because he's not the same bodybuilding that Phil is used to beating, you know? Well, I'll say this. The first two shots are front double and front last, but those shots are extremely strong shots for Brandon. Yeah. You know, of course, Phil's got tons of muscle too, but just structurally those shots. Well, because Phil's waistline is not what it was when in 2011, you know, and so even though he's ripped, I think Brandon has a better taper and, you know, lines. Of course, now you hit the side, try sepshots and the back shots in Phil is like devastating, you know, in our shots. What about Roli? Desroli, we've ever seen Roli and shape, but do you want to? No, we saw him in shape in 2018. That was the only time he's really been there. And he was barely insured, you know, he was still was like, he could have been better, you know. But the idea that there's nobody's talking about him really might be that there's no pressure on him. He may be able to sort of grab it out of the hat. Is he qualified to do the Olympia? I don't even know if he is. That's a better question. He's not quite a thickest ball time. Are we going to see him in Chicago, maybe? He could have done the hurricane classic. And will we see him at the the Alicante Spain? Maybe maybe if he's not qualified. I would think he would do a warm-up before he would do the Olympia, don't you? I mean, top, top white go from last year. Five was he six? So was he? Well, he was, he wasn't in the game, right? He would be in the Olympia. Oh, he was, he was fit if I think, but I don't, is it top five of the go? It got him. It's not top five and they got we think that yes, he has to be top five. Used to be top 10. Daxter. Daxter is going to be the guy who is going to be standing there in the wings, waiting, just waiting, waiting, waiting for people not to be in shape. Then then then everyone's in trouble. Yeah. That's the way he always does. And that's his whole career, right? Yeah, but it's his whole career. But I mean, it's not like he just like not worthy of winning all these shows. No, no, no, I'm not saying that. I'm saying he's always been the guy who's waiting in the wings to just take these guys out. I'll tell you who's qualified. Curry's qualified bone-ax qualified. Howdy, shoot-in-squalified Daxter. Rulia's qualified. Okay. So that takes the answer to that question. So he doesn't have to do anything with the Olympia. Phil Heath, set to make millions of qualified Nathan De Ashe, Juan Morrell, Flex Lewis, Huntel Abraata, Ian Valier, something sung, sung cool from South Korea. I don't know, this guy's the last time. It was an Antoine Valier. And they get the point guys. They're the point guys. We have max Charles's the number one point guy and Lucas Oslo, a second. Big Rami. I don't know how he's third. What did he do to get points? On win is tied with Rami in fourth and Reagan Grimes is in fifth tied with Ku Klou and Justin Rodriguez. How many point people get to go? Top three qual five they said. I always thought it was top five, but maybe it's top three. We have it ran to get points from what do you do? You did the Arnold? How he did the Arnold? That's right. The chop three field, the Arnold's not. The guarantee. No. We have a pretty good line up right now. I love to see Sean wrote it in that lineup. That would be nice. Obviously his situation is not, he doesn't seem like it's fixing itself in time. Why? But it's weird that he's nice and on the court yet. It's his bizarre. It must be so ironclad that they're just like, both sides. If you're his lawyer, if I'm Roden's lawyer and I'm like, and I think that they have a weak case, I'd be like, look, my client has a right to a fair and speedy trial. That's part of the Constitution. Speedy, speedy trials. The words are in the Constitution. This is not speedy unless they're purposely delaying and they think, you know what? The longer it goes, maybe they'll drop a case. I don't know. What's the difference? But it's killing, you know, he's like Muhammad Ali now, Sean, because he's losing the best two years of his career. Two years? He's lost. For an innocent guy, that's pretty crappy. He was Mr. Olympian. He take away his best two years. Well, that's why I say persistiously, you know, that ironclad case that they're building up in Utah. Yeah. Now, if he's found guilty, then obviously, then, yeah, whatever the punishment is, is, well, deserve, but maybe he's delaying and unpurpose. So he just nothing to go to jail. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not hearing anything about it. So it's weird that we haven't heard anything about this case. Usually, you get, you know, something's leaked out at some point. If I haven't heard, I haven't heard a word. I would imagine you would have heard something. Obviously, Sean would have been preparing for the Olympia. You would have been prepping. I'm so that's not happening. Yeah. Well, I just heard that the girl was, was a bank robber at one time. I don't have some, you're asking a bank robber. You're like, you're like Trump. You're like, you have nicknames. Well, she was just, she was, she was, the bank robber. She was, oh, guilty of committing bank robber. I think I think her family, I think her husband was on a horse farm. Her husband, her and nine of her husbands. I mean, it's, I mean, God. They're all in cohoats. I mean, well, fine. I feel bad. I feel bad that the case hasn't been said. I don't feel bad for anyone person because I don't know who's guilty and who's not, but I feel bad that the case is still pending. And if it's because of COVID, that that's really a shame, you know, that it's being delayed this long. You know, what's, let's face it. I mean, people have a right to, to be exonerated. I mean, this is affecting his ability to make money, you know? Yeah, I mean, look past that. It's his livelihood. This is lucky. I mean, if you look, you and I can't really relate to it because we don't compete anymore. But when we competed, if someone were to set to you, Chris, when you were in the height of when you loved competing and they said, you know what, you can't compete anymore. We got to settle some some. You'd be like doing everything in your power to get the things settled. When you Yeah, of course. Of course. So That's not what we're talking about. That's just logical. I think Flex is going to, I flexed Lose is going to do very well on that stage. I think that he's, I think he's definitely, you know, he's certainly a fan favorite. Well, this doesn't hurt. Of all the people I would guess, he has to buy definition of guessing, show the most amount of improvement, just by the fact that he can't be too 12 because if he's too 12 he's going to get killed. So, I mean, not killed, but he's just not really big enough. So just the fact that you know, he's going to come out all by himself, you know, when you do e-mended towards whatever and you say, wow, he's bigger, bigger and he's never, ever been not in great condition or he's never been in not strong condition or better. So without a doubt, his condition will be probably really good of 100% spot on at a big abiding weight. So he's going to have some type of like, wow, he looks like better than he used to look or a lot different than he used to look. So that's going to be a plan is his, his, a fact, because that helps him place higher than you would expect because, you know, let's say you're judging and you say, okay, that's the same role, just the same film that's the same Brandon. Not the same, but you know, I mean, Phil is not getting five palms. Right, Brandon is not gaining, you know, he may gain three to four, but he's not getting eight. You know, I mean, what's make him on stage 10 pounds bigger? Well, we see Heidi Schouppen in this line, I think, I think. I don't think so. You don't think he'll be able to get over here? I just don't think so, no. I think whatever he got here last time, I'd love to see him in the show, but I think that how we get here last time was anomaly. I think people even care about that now with the COVID, it's like everyone's so kind of like, I'm like, what's that? Well, people have forgotten about the terrorist states that they don't want to let the people and maybe they'll go the way. Well, I mean, don't forget, Iran has a huge COVID issue too. Oh, they do. I don't know. If you reach COVID issue, they have big of diplomatic issues now worst diplomatic issues this year then they did last year. I wasn't aware of that. So, you know, trying to get him to slip in. Unless he goes to Turkey for two weeks like, that would be pretty funny. But, you know, the excitement of the Olympia is always that you never know how it's going to pan out. I mean, what was the sharper two years ago? The sharper was that. Trying to run one of the show and ran a bomb out. Yeah. You don't mean it was like two shots. We're not even talking about, we haven't even talked about ran a contender. He's obviously qualified for the show. I mean, how can it can ran a win this show? Um, um, on paper he could, but things really have to line up bright. He's not being branded on the front doubles. Who's he was? Yes, the question. Who's he working with now? I don't know. Chad or Milo's? I don't know. No, I'm talking about it. You can never get into them. No. I mean, no one has more muscle than ramming that lineup. Well, he could third at the arm. Yeah. Well, he wasn't noticing in the shape. You know, we're still waiting for him to show up in shape, you know. Yeah. Well, I mean, he's he's going up in those back show against two crazy dial people. Yeah. So it's a show. Those shows he Arnold and the Olympia is just nothing but shows of contract where life folks. We got our money. I'll quite back in. I'll be done in five minutes. David, David, what's your ever psychological reading is up there? Yeah. No, my, my psychothreading. Psychothreading. What is it? What did we reveal? I don't know. I don't know. She's, I don't know. She's referring to. I think she's referring to. I think the guy told me that I was going to get it. It was going to buy a real estate. This, I had a psych reading with this guy in Facebook. Just because he was like, he was like a crazy guy that I knew from Westchester and I did it on luck. And I think I think he had mentioned he goes, you're going to buy something. You're in the process of buying a house. Is it my dad? No, now I'm going to buy any house. Roachers. You can buy groceries. Psychothreading. No, no, no, but that I forgot about it. But then we went up and bought we bought the house across the street. We closed in a tomorrow. My wife, my mother, my wife, you're going to buy something. My mother and Laura and I bought an, and Amanda, we all bought this house across the street. My mother and Laura are going to live there. And that's a major real estate deal. He knew. I didn't even know I was going to buy. Who knew it was going to come up? You know, this house. I'll give her one of the 12, doing arts, muscle day, day in the life of tour. The house is really cool. It's really, that the property is really cool. They got a horse stable on there. It's like five, seven acres. They have like a, a quay pond in an adult in an adult in a adult in pool cage, and the backyard. It's fucking awesome this thing. It's like, let me set it up for the listeners because when I went down there, you sort it. That's right. Are you kidding? If I got you like that house, too. You brought me across the street and you said quote quote, I would love to buy this house if it went up for sale. I did I really said that's yeah. You said, I'm glad you remembered you said that because we're looking at it. I wanted out into the universe and it came to it. And there was exactly what you said. And you said it, not like this. Like you didn't say it like this. Oh, you know, I liked the buy that house ever came up with sale. You're just like looking at it. You said, this is a beautiful house. You went through the whole thing. The horses, the fence, the ground, I said, I loved to buy this house. I loved to buy this house. You know, they even have a big, they have a pot like a runoff pot. They built on this thing. And now it's completely full. It's like, there's like a little alligator living in there. I mentioned that in the last show. And I guess when it comes to the dry season, over the winter, it almost goes down to no water. So, but there's fish in there. So, I'm like, how a freak of the fish survived. So, the guy who went on the house, he puts a hose in there, like in the dry season, keeps it full and absolutely the fish can live. And he said, there's like eagles come there because they all the, like the birds come there. I guess in the winter because it's so low the water. You can pick the fish out like, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, he mentioned having a, we have, we have bald eagles in our backyard. You know, cool that is. We were kids. They were like in nature. Right? They were the almost extinct. It's so funny that you say that because I was driving down the main highway last, last week. Yeah. And I've never seen a bald eagle. They're beautiful, right? And I saw this like thing flying down the highway. It was like, they'll go in low and then high and then coming close to the car. I was about bald eagle. I worked crazy with my kids. They're like, what's the reveal? I said, they were endangered well. Yeah. They had like, like, ten left or something like that. You know, they're all, but they're, I mean, they're the most majestic birds. They're like, no wonder why they made that the bird the United States, you know. Yeah. I was in the United States. I wanted to mention one thing before we close up shop here. Since it's pretty late. My wife pointed out it's almost to the morning. The Brandon Curry had a Jim opening. He has a new Jim and had a big opening. I know the Antoine Volillian was there with I think Dorian and, you know, they all, he had a bunch of, I don't know if I don't think Brandon made it to. I don't think he could leave Kuwait. Uh-huh. But they had a bunch of people show up there and I know I know I know I get the whole scoop from a Susie. My good friend Susie. Oh, you're a She drove a bit. Well, it's in, it's a very close to where she lifts it. She was like a two-hour drive. She took a drive over there. She must have loved it. Brianna Ansley was there. Yeah. She's like a picture with them. So, I was free on that. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know where anyone lives. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Back in the jail, everyone that they call on. It was easy to remember that everyone was in Venice years ago. Now everyone's all up in the place. But some Brandon and his wife, Randy, opened that new gym, so congratulations. So, do you guys, and one of these days, I'll have to try to make it down there? Yeah, sure. I'd be going to all these things. It wasn't COVID and I didn't have any kids, but that's one of the life-charging. The old sure is like not the one. It's just like kids. Well, you know, this guy contacted me via email and he said, I'm writing a school thesis paper on a bigger waxy, you know, people that think that they're never big enough. Yeah, I look at the mirror. They think this small and they're really huge. I'd like to, you know, interview you and ask you, I got all this stuff. I want to get your opinion. I said, look, if it's a homework assignment, I got to answer 400 questions on the server. I said, I can't do it. I said, you know, I used to do everything. Anytime anyone asked me, I would do everything. I would always say, and I never turn anyone down. Nowadays, I still have the time. I'm like, I can't sit down for an hour and fill out, you know, like a survey and answer all these questions the way I would want to. I would do it at this service. He's like, no, I'll just talk to him in the phone. I said, I can't talk to him at the same time. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you don't want to do, you know, when I talk to people, I'm cleaning like if I, like, 12 midnight, I'm cleaning snake cages. That's my therapy. You know, when some people go on the meditate, I go in clean snake cages and I kind of just zone off. I got to do, I got to do like phone calls like that around that time. That's when I do it. They're always like, what's that? They're sliding noise here while I'm opening up steak. It's true. I was and everyone said, I'll be like, oh, I know. Like, what was that? Yeah, I got bit by a snake. I said, and I think they think I'm kidding around. When I say that, I don't think anyone believes me to be honest, but it's the truth. That's what I do. My uh, that's what I do. My interviews. I do my interviews then. Well, you got to let us know what happened with the reading. It sounded like your wife was like, I got it. So I think the guy told me I was going and being in, it was going to be a major real estate deal. That's what I think it was. And so we were in sure. I think I remember, I think that guy said that we wouldn't do some kind of real estate deal. So she must have gone back because I recorded the whole thing. I did with him. So she must have gone back and she must have watched it. I wonder if she must have found something out. I'm going to call it back. Yeah, I think that's it. All right, guys, we're at the end of the video that I show here. Good stuff this week. And we're seeing more and more qualifiers for the Olympia. It's getting exciting. And I'm, look, you know what, I, I really hope they pull this thing off. I know that there's all these restrictions and they get now, but I think that with Dan Solomon over there and the whole crew, somehow they're going to make it happen. I know they're excited. They're going to be announcing. I think this week some new exciting stuff that's going to be happening. So bodybuilding is still alive. I get an issue. And even during this COVID times, I just hope I next year, Chris, all this stuff is is under the table. I just don't think it's going to go away that quickly. That's, that's my fear. It's, it's not going to wait now. I don't, I can't see it by January, February, March, like, being any different to you. Well, that's why I say it's not going to wait now. It's like, if, if you like your house is on fire, it's like it's going to be still burning next week. I guess the, the, the, the true test will come if no one, if the, if there's not another up surgeons in cases of COVID after now, everything's kind of opening up, that's good news. If there is, then they, we can go back and they may go back at the lockdown again. There's still lockdown in Melbourne, Australia, you can't go anywhere. It's like, it's like, Marshall, there. You know, it's terrible. Those guys. All right. Let's wrap this thing up. Remember guys, with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. See you next week.

Welcome back to Bustle in the Morning. I'm Dave from Loveboy Today is Wednesday, August 8th, 2018. It looks fine that what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, let's jump right into recap Wednesday by talking about the only action in town last weekend. Tim Garner's at Tampa Pro. In the men's open Alexis Rullo and Nate History, when he became the first native born Puerto Rican citizen, the punches take it to the Olympia stage and what turned out to be an amazing win of a surgeo all leave a junior. And just as we predicted right here last week, the 2012 crown went to second year powerhouse Nicholas Bullyad. Alleen, a pulpit dominated from start to finish, as she put on the best women's bodybuilding performance we've seen in a long time. And repeat, or no, was absolutely brilliant in classic physique on his way to capturing his first win. And once again in the open bikini it was Canadian knockout, Lorolye Shapato's bringing home the win, with the over 40 bikini going to on swans, Ariel. Logan Franklin brought in the best look ever of his career to win in men's physique. And in the men's physique, over 40 it was Virginia's own Andrew Jenkins Jr. who brought home the gold back to sportsmen. Melissa Bumstedt, sword to victory, over what might have been the biggest figure line up of all time in an IFVV event and Cinderella Richardson took home top honors in figure over 40. And wrapping things up for the evening in women's physique with the statement when was not on an informal, ornal classic camp, Autumn Swanson. You want to be an entrepreneur, rule number one in business is making sure that you never leave a single stone unturned because the details always matter. And in the run-up for this year's bikini Olympia, I can promise you that nobody knows that better than perennial title threat, Casey Samsel, of the weekend we saw a Samselin or team drop a short clip from one of their latest leg day sessions where we catch the veteran starting to turn up the heat. Now that she's a little more than a month away from Showtime to our credit, Samsel's been awesome every time we've seen her this year. And with this year's bikini race shaping up to be one of the closest we've ever had, this is usually the time and the Thorbres like Samsel start to separate themselves from the path. The truth is great, Dr. Eric Thomas, success is never on discount. You always pay full price. And I bet you won't find raining and defending figure international champ, Candace Lewis, doing any effort trophy shopping in the clearance section. This week we saw one of the best in the business paying off under dues in the gym through the tune of a serious Monday morning leg session. Where we can start to see some of those flashes of brilliance peeking through that we saw a back at the start of the season. At this point I think it's a pretty well-established fact that Lewis is one of the most gifted athletes to ever step onto a figure stage. But if she wants to bring this thing full circle, and put herself up there with the rest of the elite athletes, she'll need to finish what she started by winning it all this year to really put that final stamp on her legacy. What just in case anyone out there thought that Flex Lewis was packing it in this year, since it's his last title run, let me be the first to say you guys were dead wrong. Unless you've been living under a rock then by now you've probably seen the latest round of official updates from Flex and his team that were released on Monday. They showed the greatest two-twelfth athlete of all time looking like a straight-up beast. Regardless of how you might feel about his impending retirement, when you look at what he's doing right now, knowing that this is his final ride, you can't help it admire the way he's single-handedly raised the bar for what's possible in the division. And I know that I personally can't wait to see him come out one last time and put on a show for the fans that I guarantee you no one there in the sold-out arena will ever forget. With all the hype in the ways that goes on sometimes in body building, at the end of the day, it's important to remember that this thing we all love is really about entertainment at the end of the day. And as far as I'm concerned, there aren't too many guys in the two-twelfth division who are more entertaining right now than second-year-man, Dwayne King Q, Quamina earlier on the week. The best trash talker in the division dropped a new update on his fans that probably brought a few smiles to some faces. To his credit, it looks like King Q might be on the way to delivering some of the promises he made back at the start of his prep. And if he really does end up coming in this year as a top-five finisher, this season could seriously end up being one of those changing of the guard moments. That does it the yet another addition of muscle in the morning. On day polonbo reminding you to always be sure to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

watching What's up body building fans? Day Palabo here for another RX Muscle Special News Update on our 2018 RX Muscle Iron Road to the Olympia. And guess what? Flex Lewis is the name of today's update. If you've seen the pictures, you know what I'm talking about? I saw hit the ground when I saw it. Wow. 225 pounds shredded to the bone. All I thought was 1993, Dory Nights. That was it. If someone would have showed me this picture real quick and flashed across the screen, I would have said to myself, that's Dory Nights. I wouldn't even thought Flex Lewis. That's how good this picture is. This shows you why Flex is having so much trouble, okay? Making way. In the 2012 division, it's why Flex is leaving the 2012 division. I can guarantee that the guy can't make way. He texted me the other day and he was asking me some questions we were going back and forth. And he said, man, I got to lose 12 pounds. I don't know. I'm going to do it. I said, well, Flex, you know, you're a tough guy. You know, you can do or anything. I should do it. That's what makes you the best in the world. And I'm thinking, this guy's probably what's what's complainin about. He probably has some fat to lose, right? Then you see this picture and I understand now why he's rocking his brain. He has nothing to lose. There's nothing to lose. He only has a little bit of fluid to lose at this point. And that is very nerve wracking. Because that means he's probably going to have to sacrifice some muscle, some fullness, some roundness, some of that frakyness that he has right now. And this is the reason why he's leaving the 2012 class. He can't be as best. He's as best at 225 when he comes down to 225. He's still really good, but he is vulnerable to some of the shorter guys who have full around their muscle belly who don't have trouble making way. So it doesn't feel good to get up on stage and know you don't look your best. And that's a short what's going through flex Lewis's mind. Now he has nothing left to prove he's won the division at how many times now you know, a million times. And so he doesn't need to prove anything anymore. But yeah, he's big enough now that I think he realizes, hey, I could do some damage in the open division. If William Bonac could be third at the Olympian, that's not taking anything away from William Bonac. But he was a two-twelf guy. Why not flex Lewis? You know, I think he could certainly hang with those guys up there. And I think he could be a top five guy if he really poured his mind to it. From what I hear rumors, not coming from flex. I hear he's taking off 2019 next year and he's going to come back and do the Olympia in 2020, which would be about a two-year window when you wouldn't compete. I think that's a mistake. You know why? Because I don't think he needs to gain that much more muscle. If he can gain five pounds of muscle, which is an easy task for him, because he's been holding himself back because of this two-twelf weight limit, he could at two-thirty could be crazy dangerous on a pro stage. His height, you kidding me? He could certainly do the Tampa Pro next summer with that and be very dangerous at the Olympia for next year if you really wanted to. I have no doubt in my mind. There's no reason I have to wait. If you wanted to take off 2019 and then come back and do the Aron Classic in 2020 in the beginning of the year, I think that would be a good move. Imagine winning that show. What kind of momentum you got going into the Olympia? That later that year. I think that would be a very good move, but to be honest with you, I'd like to see him compete next year. I don't think he needs to wait at this point. He's not 24 years old anymore. He's got all the muscle he needs. He needs a little bit more. And I think he's very competitive and he could win almost every show. Maybe not the Arnold, maybe not the Olympia yet, but he certainly could win any other show out there. With his level of conditioning, we don't see this anymore. It's very right. The only person who has the level of conditioning that Flex Lewis has right now in those pictures is Phil Heath and Dexter Jackson when Dexter's 100%. Those are the guys that bring that ultra crazy dry looking freaky muscle to the stage. That's a rarity and flex is a really good poser. He's a good dynamic, stage presence, charismatic, he can certainly dominate on an open pro level at shows. Lee Priest did it. Lee wasn't as freaky as Flex was from behind. Lee had other body parts that might have been a little better, but he was winning one of the Iron Man, which was a huge show for him. That was in the back of the day when the guys were crazy good. I certainly think that Flex is ready for the open class. I think that maybe if he thinks about it a little more, he'll reconsider doing, and I don't know, we're speculating. This is all based on rumors that I know, of course. He might have every intention to compete next year. Now, what I would like to see at the Olympia this year, which I think would love to add a level of excitement, especially knowing that this is Flex's last year, would be a pose down, okay? A final pose down between the open, the 212, and if you want to throw the classic guy in the throw the classic guy in there as well. For you know what, pull 50 grand away from the open guys prize money. They need us and he's wanted $1,000, give them $350,000, and put $50,000 up for the overall winner at the very end of the show. If they get to people's chip, no one wants to hear the audience guys vote and vote anyway. It's not that exciting, okay? If you can get everyone at home around the world, that's a different story. But if you only get the audience members, it's not that exciting. What's exciting is the overall, and if you want to let the people in the audience vote for the overall, that's fine. Buy and far more than likely the opening guy is going to win it anyway, because he's just too big for the other guys. And if he doesn't get to his 50 grand back, then he was, you know, for fitting. It should always be like he has to put the 50 grand up to beat those two guys, because you know what? Who knows? Maybe Phil will narrowly win the Olympi this year, because everyone's off and he's off a little bit, flex to look amazing, and flex to win the overall. And get the 50 grand extra. Hey, the two-to-all guy in plastic guys, you get no money compared to the opening guy anyway, give these guys a chance. It's like a lottery ticket. If something happens if they look that great, and the other guys are off a little bit, maybe they can win the overall. Keep won't count towards anything other than an asterisk in the history books, but it'll be exciting. To me, that would be super exciting. I'd love to see Flex up there. Flex would pose as well. It would be the greatest, you know, posing exhibition you've ever seen from Flex. He'd be so excited up there. He'd have so much energy, he'd be pumped to get up there against the top guy in the world, whether it be Phil or if someone beats him this year, which is unlikely, but it's possible. I mean, come on. It would infuse this sport with energy, but you know what, even if it never happens when Flex goes to that open class, he's going to bring new life to the open. I'm telling you why, because people like him number one, he's very, very enthusiastic. He's got a tremendous amount of energy. We have yet to see the best of Flex lowest. I know that for a fact, because he's holding himself back, and people know this, and I think it Flex, while he makes it very good, living for himself, I'm sure, has never gotten the true rewards of a person, a bodybuild of his caliber deserves. Back in the day, in the 90s, he would have been competing with all the open guys all along, just like Sean Raid did. Sean Raid was winning the one on the honor of Classic. Why not Flex Lewis? So I think Flex has missed out on a lot of money, opportunities, and he's missed out on a lot of glory. Because let's face it. The end of the day, who really remembers the two 12 guys? You remember the open guys. My history, you know, you're back at sale, who won the Mr. Olympia? No one thinks, well, who won the two 12 Olympia? I think that Flex deserves to be in that open class. I think he's got a lot of talent. I think he's still young enough, and he can really shine, and I think he's just coming into his peak years now. Great move on his part. But I gotta tell you, that picture blew my mind. I'm sure Dory and H is looking to say, and holy macro, that looks familiar. Good luck up there at Olympia Flex. I know you'll make that 12 pounds, and I think you'll make history this year once again. Day of Plumbo here with a 2018 RX muscle iron road to the Olympia. Special update.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our third year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pop tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. On day, Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 18th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes, as outsiders, we look at all the glitzing glamour that comes with success and it tricks us, and to thinking that people were looking at didn't really have to struggle and sacrifice as much as we have to get where they are. In some cases, that may be true, but for those of us who've been lucky enough to see Flex Lewis grow into the man and the champion that he's become, over the last 17 years, we know how difficult that journey has really been. And that's why this mission or this drive or whatever you want to call it to compete for an open Olympia title this year makes so much sense to the people who understand, because for Flex, the struggle in the sacrifice and the anxiety that comes with taking big swings is a new. It's part of the course. It's also why people shouldn't count him out, because he knows how to rise to the occasion when the odds are stacked against him. I forget who it was who told me their next move is always their best move. But at this point, I've known him at Roy, along enough to understand that for him, the whole next move best move thing is how we operate on a daily basis. A few days ago, sources told me that a myth was about to make a push for an Olympia bid, and that he was starting with the Savannah Pro next weekend. I was also told that a myth is planning to compete at the New York Pro the following weekend where the plan is to happen firing on all cylinders in the hopes that he can snag it and let be a qualification. The riders entire career amidst never been the type to pour anything less than a hundred percent into everything he does. So if you just stay true to who he is, and we'll see any reason why he wouldn't be a serious top five contender in both of these shows as long as he's on the money. Here's a pro tip for you. If you want to start making measurable progress towards your long-term goals, start making it a habit to physically write down three to five action steps that you're going to complete every single day. It might sound simple, but I promise you it works. Take a guy like Ronald Gordon for example, heading into the Tampa Pro a few weeks ago. His name probably didn't even register on the radar for most casual body-building fans because he was a second year pro who'd only competed once during his rookie season. But after you take an entire year of small action steps and add them all up, what you get is a top five fish and a lot of attention for being one of the most improved athletes in the lineup. You're talking about attention in action. Once you get those two things to align, most people would be amazed at what they can accomplish. For three years ago, I got really into Stoic philosophy, and there's one passage from a book I read that's managed to stick with me for whatever reason. It went something to the effect of the most important question a man can ask himself is how much pain is he willing to endure, which is really deep in profound if you think about it. I think powerful statements like that have the ability to flip a switch in people, sort of like what Phil Heath did for Sean Clarita. After Phil made his big comeback announcement, something clicked in Sean's head that shifted him into an entirely different year. Not that he wasn't willing to endure the pain before, he obviously was, but now it's almost like enduring that pain as part of a higher calling. And who knows, maybe it is. Maybe the end result of all this will be Sean standing alone on the Olympia stage with this hand raised in victory. And at that point, maybe all the pain he was willing to endure will start to make perfect sense. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day-pollumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

What's up, bodybuilding fans? Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. Flex Lewis has announced on Instagram that this will be the last 212 competition of his career at the 2018 Mr. Olympia contest. He already has six titles under the belt and he says this will be his last and I know a lot of people are going to be upset about that and people are speculating whether this will be his last bodybuilding show period. You take a look at his Instagram here. You can see he says with a much speculation and rumor, I had to sit down with Lex Magazine to answer all the questions and obviously there's a full article available, but basically he says that this is one of the hardest decisions he ever had to make and to come with terms with his life. I guess he's kind of a conciduate that he's never competing again, but then he continues to say that this is finally time to say this 212 chapter is over. I'll be finishing with my last 212 show at this year's 2018 Olympia. To me that basically is just saying he's not doing the 212 anymore. I didn't hear any hints of retirement there. I'm thinking that maybe next year we'll see him in the open division. He's only in his early 30s at this point, so I can't see him retiring, but you never know because he continues to make very specific references to the fact that his family is very important to him. He obviously has children now and I know he loves them. I talked them on a regular basis to be a text and we talk about our kids all the time. I know his health is very important to him. I don't know if this is the end of his competition days or if he's just putting the 212 to rest because he really has nothing to prove anymore and maybe you want to see what he can do in the open class. He is a competitor after all. He is an athlete and he wants to see what he can do. I would if I were him, you know, cowfark and he went to. Can he went open and shows? I actually texted him last week or we were texting back and forth and I said hey I heard a rumor because someone had told me that he was retiring from the 212 division. This would be his last 212 event. He was going to do the open and he said who told you that and you know I gave him whatever. I think I told whoever said it. Somehow it came from E in Valier. I don't know how it came through there after one of my minions told me this. He said don't believe all the hype. He kind of tried to deflect me from exactly what was said and I thought it was pretty funny because I didn't really even believe it. It was true. But you know he kind of was evasive. He wrote well the room is for now just rumors and I really can't see past this Olympia. If I think about the open glass he goes my way cause up and I will be able to make the way class. I guess he was just kind of deflecting me he wanted to break the news himself. That's fine obviously, you know, he should be the ones to break it. Obviously he must have told a few people because people were talking about it. Once again I think it's good to have this fun to love to see flex in the open. I think the guy could win a couple of open shows. I don't know if he's going to win the Arnold of Olympia but he certainly could win some the regional shows in the pro ranks in the open division. Look at the guy's sister. You know, guys, did you know he did well? Jose Raymond did well in the open division. So flex is the chance of the champ so I can't imagine him not vying for a couple of titles he picks the right shows. But flex is one of the most dynamic people in our industry. He's the one of the most well-liked. I don't really know anyone who can say a bad word about the guy and he really wears his heart of the sleeves. I know he was really hurt by the death of the Dallas Macarvel last year. I think that flex has a really good balance in his life at this point in between his family and his career and all his businesses he's doing right now. So I suspect we'll see him compete in that open division. Maybe not next year, maybe the year after that, who knows? But I think that flex will be back. So this Olympia will be a special one. Can anyone beat him? I don't think so. I don't think anyone will take him out in this two-twelfth division. I just think he's having a tremendous, really hard time getting down to weight. I know he doesn't like the way he looks, probably when he makes the way because he's too depleted. And it's not the flex list you see two weeks after the show where he's all full and vain and hard. And that's the lucky ones are breaking through the stage. Because after all, as bodybuilders, we always want to look the best that we could possibly look who wants to have to like, you know, take away some of your muscle or take away some of your fullness just to make a way class. You do that in the amateurs and then when you hit the pros, you want to be the best that you can be. I mean, Lee Priest never had to do it to a 12. He was a guy who always brought his best to the stage and then have to worry about making weight. So I think flex list really wants to give it a go and see what he's got in the tank before he gets too old and then says, oh, I should have what I could have. And I think it's like I said, I think it's a good move. It'll be exciting for the industry and he'll probably become even more popular because of it. So best of luck at the Olympia Flex. So I know number seven is going to be in your on your trophy case sooner than later. And hopefully next year we'll see you on an open stage. For now, the Olympia Flex with an RX muscle, news update.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the Ocar Poptart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today is Thursday, July 15th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As the old saying goes, good things come to those who wait. And if your reflex Lewis fan, you better crush your fingers and hope that more good things are coming your way down the road. Because it looks like it's going to be a while before we see the former seven-time, two-12 Olympia champs step on to a bodybuilding stage again. A few days ago, Flex won on the record to say that he was officially pulling out of the Olympia for this second year in a row. Flex made the announcement on his YouTube channel where he essentially said that business in life need to come first right now. Which puts any plans of competing on the back burner for the foreseeable future. But with that said, where one door closes, another one opens and if Flex is closing the door and is Olympia dreams this year, it means there's one opening up somewhere else waiting for someone to walk through it. If you didn't know, it's Shark Week on Discovery Channel this week. I watched something last night about a new theory on how great whites might have been one of the main reasons for the megalodon going extinct. And that was kind of pretty interesting to you, or into sharks. And if that little shark tidbit didn't blow your mind, this should get the job done. I think we're going to see a Lionel Baikki come back at some point before the end of the year. Last week, Lionel's camp released a new photo of him from the back and it seems to be relatively recent. And this says you get from reading some of Lionel's comments, as I said he has every intention of being back on a bodybuilding stage, sometimes soon. Back when he was at the peak of his powers a few years ago, Lionel was wildly regarded as someone who had the potential to be a top-fivalent via finisher. So if you get himself together in time, now that Blacks Lewis is out of the picture, maybe this will be the year we see that come to fruition. After talking about it for months, it's hard to believe that the Chicago Pro will be here next weekend. We already know that this should be one of the most stacked Lion ups of the season, and that we're expecting to see a ton of headliners fill out every single division. If you look at some of the athletes, we're projected to see in the men's open. Seth Shaw is one of the names that jumps off the page to me as a potential star course contender. All the reports we hear coming out of Vegas say that he will be bigger and better shape than he was the last time we saw him on stage at the Tampa Pro last year. And the team feels like this could be potentially a breakout show for him. Seth's always had a great flow to his physique for someone to besides. So these as good as advertised, it'll be interesting to see if he can work his way to a top five finish. I know there are a lot of people looking forward to the Portugal Pro this weekend. And if you're a women's physique fan, this is the one you'll want to keep your eyes glued to because it looks like it's where we're going to see Danny Castillo make her season debut. Over the last week or so, Danny's team has released new updates detailing her progress heading into the show. And from the way it looks, this might be the best version of her that we've seen yet. When Danny's firing on all cylinders, she's without a doubt one of the most dangerous athletes in the division. And if she comes in looking anything close to her all time best, I don't know if anyone else in this lineup will have enough firepower to keep her down. And that does it. The yet another addition of muscle in the morning on Day full of elbow reminding you to always make sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on the Facebook Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIDX Road, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday, September 22nd, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Now, in times out of 10, when you elevate your surroundings and the people you surround yourself with, you almost instantaneously elevate yourself to be a byproduct of your situation. So now that Kamal algorithmic and flexed Lewis are teaming up for the rest of the Olympia prep, how much better do you think these two will make each other as a result? If you think back throughout the entire history of the Mr. Olympia, this might be the first time ever that we have two active competitors with titles on their resumes, joining forces to prepare for a contest. Add that to the fact that these two are still both in their prime, and both looking to carve out a new spot in the history books of their divisions. And you get one of the most uniquely fascinating storylines of this entire season. We're calling it the King's Connection, and it could easily be the precursor to something special for both of them. We've talked a lot on this show about goals and goals setting. And how important it is for these two pieces to establish an intrinsic motivation in long-term success. And with that in mind, I want to throw out a philosophical question. What do we think the goal is right now for Sean Rodin? Since he won't be competing in this year's Olympia, or so it seems, at the end of the month it will have been almost two full years since the last time we saw him compete. One other thing to consider here is his age. He's 45 right now, which means not only has he lost two years of his prime odds are that he's also probably approaching the tail end of his prime too. And that's not to say when or if he comes back that he still won't be the old flexor trying. It's just that history tells us at some point there has to be a drop off. I don't have a crystal ball. I don't know what happens from here, but I do think it's worth asking the question. For the most part, when we talk about progressive overload and bodybuilding, the conversation is always centered around training. What I believe there's a progressive overload element to competing too. Take Justin Rodin regus as an example. Two weeks ago Justin was awesome at the New York pro. And truth be told that was probably the best look of his career. And the second place finish doesn't come anywhere close to telling the whole story of how far he's come in these last few years. That's progressive overload at work. It's also about slowly adding and making improvements over time. Now if we play this forward to the Chicago pro four weeks from now, progressive overload tells us that Justin should come in even better, which makes them one of the pre-show favorites. So this keeps moving in the direction we expect. He could be less than a month away from clenching his first Olivia qualification. Last week, the Denver Nuggets made history after they beat the brakes off of the lost Angeles Clippers in game seven of the conference, 70 of finals, could become the first team ever to come back from a three-one deficit two times in the same playoffs. And even though they're inside the NBA bubble in Orlando, I'm sure Brett Wilkins wouldn't mind channeling a little bit of that, mild-high magic over these next few months. According to Brett, he somewhere in the neighborhood of 260 pounds right now, with plans to add a few more pounds of quality stage weight heading into next season. If you compare photos from last year to this year, you can see the kind of work ethic that this guy has. So as long as he doesn't let up now, I think 2021 has the potential to be a big year for him. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always meet true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

There's always something about the summertime that makes people start to get that in shape again. And rumor has it that Frank McGrath might be starting to get that itch again as well. But one time veteran has been starting to generate some buzz on social media lately, about a potential comeback to the stage, which would mark the first time in almost three years that we saw the man with some of the craziest forums of all time making appearance at an official IFV Pro League event. At this point in his career, from a graph to get back out there is really more of a mental and spiritual exercise than it would be anything else. That being said, if there's any truth to the rumor, I'm sure all's legions of fans would love to see him get that first call out as he battles it out with the best in the business. Now that we're smack dab in the middle of a July heat wave, it finally feels like suns out guns out season is officially here. So I guess it's a good time for 212 powerhouse Tristan Escalasico to drop some video from a heavy arm day. The former North American champ released a few clips over the weekend to show off some of the progress he's made on his extended off season, which seems to be getting along just fine as far as I can tell. The last time we saw Escalasico on a pro stage, he was rocking the house with this top 10 effort on the New York pro stage last year. So if you can make a few key touchups and come back with some added muscle to his frame, here's a guy who could certainly surprise a lot of people if he shows up at his old time best. We're right at that point in the schedule now, with his room for a new breakout star to come in and take his mid-summer stretch by storm. And if I were in the market for some hot new bikini prospect to get behind, I think I might have to take a hard look at rookie standout Jennifer Dorey. A little more than a month after she took the Toronto pro by storm with her scorching third place finish, the former Canadian National champ still isn't showing any signs of slowing down. And the clips we've seen from the Dorey camp over the last few weeks, it looks like she's done her due diligence to keep things within striking distance. And once she gets ready to crank it up, it's a high gear again, watch out because she's got a chance to be a really dangerous competitor over these next few months. When you live down here near the Gulf Coast and the Caribbean, you know all too well that hurricane season is right around the corner now. But come this time next month, Tampa Florida might already be dealing with the aftermath of a storm that's about to roll through the figure division that goes by the name of the Talia Soltero. Back at the start of the season Soltero came storming out of the gates when she put together a high light real performance in her win at the Upper Midwest Pro. And after taking a few weeks off to recalibrate the machine, she's almost ready to open up another can of what fast on the figure division out in Tampa. Soltero is one of those athletes who's good enough to hold her own against anyone in the division when she's at her all-time best. And if she shows up at 100%, I have a hard time believing that she won't find a way to put herself in contention to compete for the win. Confidence is one of those things that as an athlete, you either have it or you don't. And it doesn't take a rocket science as to figure out that 212 powerhouse Duane Cuamino's got a whole lot of confidence right now. The second year man is heading into this year's Olympia, spitting out some old school playground-style trash talk. And as far as I can tell, it looks like he's putting in the work to back it up. I'll say this when you look back at how good he was in the win at the Phoenix Pro last year. You can't give this guy a puncher's chance to come into the Olympia and make some noise. And if he actually shows up and makes good on his work, I think all of a sudden we're looking at a guy who's a whole lot more intriguing, moving forward into this new post-flex Lewis 212 Olympia era. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And they show to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Wednesday, August 19th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In the best pieces of advice I ever got before I started my business, was to find whatever it was I knew how to do well and then become the best in the world at it. That's a pretty simple recipe for success that you can apply to bodybuilding too. Just ask a key Williams. Rumor has it that a keyman is a simple formula for success might be headed for Chicago, where I think he'd come in as a clear cut top three favorite. I came as someone who's gotten better every single year because he knows who he is and he knows what works and when all that becomes that simple result are almost guaranteed. My son Logan is on this kick now where he loves the X-Men. He runs around the house, smashing him to stuff, pretending he's juggernaut. I think it's hysterical when he does it, but it drives my wife crazy because the juggernaut is an unstoppable force who destroys everything in his path. Almost like what Derek Lundseurge's trying to do with the two 12 division this year. After last year's Olympia disappointment it feels like Derek's taking on a whole juggernaut personality heading into this year's contest. He's out to smash and destroy anyone who gets in his way. So if I were Kamala Gargni Sean Clarita and George Peterson, I'd be sleeping with one eye open just to make sure I can see him coming. A few weeks ago Kevin Hart was on a podcast I was listening to and someone asked him what he thought the key was to being able to have his hands in so many different projects at once and you know what he said? mindset. Plain and simple and I think the plain and simple mindset is one of the things that also explains how Kamiel Perriets been able to stay at the top of her game for so long. Recently we were told that Kamiel was planning to start her Olympia prep three weeks from now as she looks to add another top 10 finish to her resume. At this point in her career, Kamiel is so polished that it feels like second nature and once athletes like her lock into that mindset, it's damn near impossible for them to get an off-course. It's one of the biggest complaints keyboard gangsters have against bodybuilding today. First what bodybuilding was in the 90s is that today's athletes all have, well, somewhat blocky ways to no float in their physique. But I guess Nick Walker never got that memo. The updates that we've seen coming from Nick and his team have been outrageous. He has a weird old school draining this combined with the new school 2020 fitness intensity. And in today's year that makes him dangerous, especially at the amateur level. Now combine all that with the fact that he plays second in his pro qualifier last year, it seems like the only place to go from here on out is up. And that does it. If you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning, Dave will let me remind you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Votes, our 30-year-to-row, and we're going to be doing today, we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to the legendary foods muscle in the morning, on day polonbo, and today is Thursday, September 17th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Time, place, and space. In retrospect, those are the three things we always look back at when the universe works things out in a way we didn't anticipate. And up until this point in the year, at least on the competition front, it doesn't feel like anything has gone according to plan for blessing a wavadoo. 2020 was supposed to be the year that blessing finally made his pro-dave you and took the pro league by storm. But that was before we all found out that 2020 was going to be the year when the universe gave us one giant cosmic middle finger. That being said, it does look like blessing might be gearing up to make another run in his pro-dave you, even though time, place, and space may not be exactly what he thought they'd be a few months earlier. There's going to be a ton of attention on the Europa Pro in Spain next month, which makes that feel like a logical landing spot. And since they have three Olympia qualification spots up for grabs, there's still a chance that this whole thing comes full circle and he ends up doing what he said out to do back when it all started. Week two of the NFL season starts tonight with a barely watchable game between the bangles and the rounds. And since O'Dell Beckham was a complete no-show in week one, maybe Baker Mayfield should think about dialing up George Peterson. With the Olympia lesson four months away, now it feels like George and his team are really starting to kick things up into high gear. Everyone I talked to tells me that George is completely dialed in all the way across the board, and that we should expect to see one of the most devastating packages that's ever set foot on the 12th stage. So that's the George we get, the one who's looking to single handedly raise the bar in the division, then this year's contest really could be the dawn of a new era. In his book The Winter Road, author Adrian Shelby writes that the road to redemption is often paved in blood. And you know that might seem a little hyperbolic since we're only talking about body building, but that doesn't mean that Reon Ansely is approaching this year's Olympia prep, like he's getting ready for war. Anyone who's tracked Reon during his off-season, Saudi Arabia was arguably more focused than he's ever been at any point in his career. And now that he's in full-scale prep mode, it seems like that focus has only intensified. This is a huge moment in Breon's career because winning back the title here could elevate him to almost iconic status. But the road to redemption is long and fraught with peril. So that means the only option is to leave a lot of wreckage in his wake. And finally, we want to send out a big get well soon shout out to Sandra Gourholics after undergoing surgery last week. The news came in as a shock on Thursday when Sandra announced on Instagram that she was heading in to have her procedure done. A few days later Sandra followed up with another post that indicated the surgery was indeed successful, that she was grateful for all of her thoughts, prayers, and messages that she'd received over the last 48 hours. Part of the reason why I think this news hit so hard was that we just saw Sandra compete and look amazing. It's a tamper pro a few weeks ago when she took second. So to have the pendulum seemingly swing in the complete opposite direction was hard to wrap our heads around. But as I said, thankfully she is on the road to recovery and hopefully she'll be back to business as usual before you know it. And that does it. The yet another edition of Muscle in the More on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car mock tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, September 11th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I always tell my clients that there's no time like the present to take control of the rains, and since the Romania Pro is less than 12 weeks away now, I'm sending those same words of wisdom out to my guy, Clarence the Vs. Early this week, Clarence's team was reporting that he was planning to make his season debut at the Romania Pro Fest in November, where they believe the new improved Clarence has a real chance at walking away with the wind. If you remember back to the tail end of last year, Clarence had a run where it looked like he figured out how to put it all together. So if he's building on the foundation he laid down there, a winning Romania could definitely be within striking distance. As parents, we always tell our kids not to judge a book by its cover, which is ironic considering that adults are almost always more judgmental and dismiss it than their kids ever are. But when someone walks around as shredded as a hard cutie, I think judging the book by its cover is the only way to go. Now even though Sahar looks like he's eight weeks out of source close to his team told us that he's still in full off season mode and that he doesn't have any shows lined up at the moment. That being said, when Sahar's in shape, he's good enough to be a top five threat, no one's any show he enters. So if he does decide to jump into something at the last minute, he's not someone you want to take lightly. Here's a crazy number for you. 95. Any year that feels like it's been in eternity. Today we're only 95 days away from the Olympia, which means that we're only 95 days away from Missy Truscott taking another run at Whitney Jones Olympia title. According to Missy's team, this year she thinks she can take the fitness division to a whole new level, which is a bold state been considering that she'll need to unseat a two-time defending champion to do it. That being said, coming so close these last few years has to leave her with a sour taste in her mouth, and at this point, sipping a little victory champagne might be the only thing that can cleanse the palate. But if she does make good on her promise, we might indeed be on our way to taking the division to a whole new level. Part of being an athlete is learning how to swallow the ups and downs that come with competing at the highest level, and trust me, no one knows that better right now than my rot-roker. My roommate, Horukki debut with the New York pro last weekend, where she slid into seven places in a lineup that was insanely top-heavy. This week we had a chance to talk with my ores team behind the scenes, and let me tell you they weren't happy. They believe my record of easily placed two or three spots higher, which would have bumped her up into the top five in front of Sandra Kahallis and Maria Diaz. For young athlete jumping into a show this caliber, I think my or did more than enough to prove that she belongs in these conversations. So if she makes a few adjustments and uses a little bit of strategy to plan her next move, I can see her cracking the top three at some point before this year is all set and done. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry for the low carb hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, a muscle in the morning on Dave Palombo and today is Thursday September 3, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Believe it or not, after months of waiting, the New York Pro is finally almost here and that means the world is about to see quint in Eureka on a bodybuilding stage for the first time this season. If you've been tracking the third year pro all throughout the course of this prep, then you already know that he's taken a few major leaps forward since last year. So much so that even I've heard some people throwing out the idea that he could be a challenge for a top three spot. The honest quittins made so much progress since last year that he almost looks like a completely different athlete. So the whole notion of him placing in the top three might not be as crazy as some people think because if it's conditioning is a hundred of a spent spot on, I think he's the type of athlete who could show up there and hurt a lot of people's feelings before it's all set and done. Last week in the news of actor Chadwick Boseman's passing came as a major shock to his millions of fans all over the world. During his short 43 years on his planet, Boseman was probably best known for his role in black Panther, which was a groundbreaking film for a lot of different reasons. So if I'm Dan Kovie Anderson and my nickname around bodybuilding is the black Panther, I'm making sure that I summon all of my superpowers for my season debut in Spain a few weeks from now. As I know that somewhere Chadwick Boseman is probably watching a few days ago I heard from a source that Anderson wasn't in fact planning to make his 2020 debut in Spain, where he's hoping to take advantage of the extended qualification window pro league officials put in place there. In the past when Dan Kovie was been on his game, he's shown that he can be a real problem. And if that's the guy who shows up in Spain, he can be all sorts of dangers. I have one more bit on the New York pro before we move on. The classic physique division. On paper, or at least what we've seen so far, this lineup looks like it should have some parody to it. And usually parody and good competition go hand in hand in bodybuilding. So I want to throw one name out there that I haven't heard too many people talking about. Corriol Kudiav. Corriol is the longtime prodigy of Dennis Wolff and from what I'm told, Corriol and Dennis are feeling very confident about what he's bringing to the table this year. Corriol had a strong off season made some key improvements in the right areas. And he's heading into the New York pro with the best conditioning of his career. In the past we've seen Corriol be someone who can consistently place inside the top three when he's dialed in. So if this newer bigger, better version of Corriol is ready to roll, like they say he is, he's someone you might want to keep your eye on. According to Stanford professor Jim Collins, the most successful companies have a clear understanding of what they can be the best in the world. And then they dedicate their time to executing a strategic plan to gain a competitive advantage. And if you sit back and look at the arc of a Roshe Robars career so far, it's almost like he's been locked up with the Collins model from day one. Earlier this week, a Roshe was spotted back in his old stomping ground at the East Coast Mecca where it looked to me like he was doing everything you'd expect on an athlete of his caliber to do. A Roshe is the perfect example of someone who understands who he is, what he does well, and how to mesh those two things together for the successful accomplishment of what he's doing. Because once you canal that formula down, the results speak for themselves. And that does it. Yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. And today's guest is a new IFB Classic Physic Pro. His name, Rory Molnir. And he's got a terrific story. So I want to get him on here to inspire you guys. This has been Inspiration Week here at rxmuscle.com. And Rory can grab relations on the ProCard victory. Thank you very much, Dave. Thanks for having me on the show. Man, 32 years old, you've lived a lot of life already. It's unbelievable what you've gone through, huh? Yeah, for sure. There's definitely been a lot, a lot that's happened, but a lot of good things have happened since my past. Let's take people back. Let's start what happened to you. And then we'll talk about how you achieved what you did. Because you were severely into drugs. Tell us how bad your drug had it was. It was about as bad as it could get in my opinion. How did start? It was pretty typical. I was young. I got in with the background when I was very young. I was into smoking pot when I was in like 5th grade. I started very, very young. But yeah, it was basically that smoking pot drinking. And it graduated to pills and cocaine and eventually heroin. And that became the thing that I did. How does a young guy find these drugs? Did they have that available in schools nowadays? They're more readily available than alcohol, honestly. People that want to get messed up. It's easier for kids to get drugs, really. Then it is to get booze. Crazy. It's an unfortunate reality, but it's just an epidemic, especially in the schools nowadays. Kids are all getting into heroin and pills and everything in very young age. It's like very, very sad. Are kids actually injecting heroin? Or are they like snoring at how they're using? Yeah, I think most people start with snoring it just because, you know, it's just scary to inject it. But if you stick with it long enough, I mean, you either will die before you get to the needle or you'll get there. You know, it's good. Is the needle that much better than the nose wrap? I mean, yeah, I guess so. More than anymore, it's definitely more effective. Right. It's efficient. How old were you the first time you took a shot of heroin? I think I was 23. So my heroin addiction with in terms of intravenous wasn't terribly long, but it escalated very quickly. It started off with sniffing a couple bags and soon it was doing like 50 bags a day. Wow. What is a bad cost? What is it cost? It's a couple hundred dollars a day, really. Wow. How do you pay for that? When you sell you the stuff, how did you pay for it? You know, I worked. I was worked full time, but that didn't cover it. I mean, yeah, I sold ended up selling some drugs and, you know, towards the end, you know, I was stealing and doing the stuff that, you know, junkies do. Right. Right. But what was the final straw? You know, I had, it was in 2013. I just hit a low. You know, it was a long time coming and ended up getting arrested. You know, I think I got like 15, 20s that year. Oh my god. I ended up going to jail. And when I was in jail, I just came to the realization I was either going to change or I was going to die. I was either going to live that life for the rest of my life, or I was going to do something about it. When I got out, I had no place to live. You know, my parents were very supportive. They loved me and they wanted me to do better. So they did what they needed to do and kind of pushed me out. And that was the best thing that could happen because if I was, you know, if I was under the wing of my parents anymore, I never would have gotten out of my own and gotten better. So I ended up going to a long-term rehab and I completed that program and when I got out, I was a year clean. Wow. So I was in there for years. I was in there for a year. So I got out, I got my own apartment. And the meantime, I was working a job for a commercial contractor. And you know, that guy was great. He picked me up every day because I didn't have a license to never car. And you know, he gave me a really good job and I continued to work from when I got out. And you know, pretty much the rest is history. I started to work out a little bit here and there in the meantime. And I was enjoyed being active. You know, I was, I have a background in martial arts when I was younger and a rest over in high school. So I was always very athletic, but that kind of went to the waist side when the drugs kind of took over. So I got back in the, you know, working out in my sponsor actually had gotten in membership to the gym. So when I got out, remember I got my tax return. And I was like, I'm going to go to the mall, I got all the gear. I knew shoes and some gym clothes and a gym membership and that was it. And that was three and a half years ago. It's great to trade one addiction for another way more productive addiction for body balleron. Oh, my god. Yeah. Of course. And you get the same feeling really. It's just not as direct. You got to work for it. Yeah. Exactly. You got to actually, I sweat a little bit. Yeah, right. Do you still got a meeting, isn't it something that? Yeah, yeah. I still have a meeting. I still talk to people. I still have a sponsor. You know, for me, you know, I'm not willing to really chance it anymore. So, you know, even though bodybuilding takes up a huge part of my life, I make sure that recovery is a part of it also because without that, there's no anything else. You want to be, excuse me, getting started. You get a jet. Yeah. Are you one of these guys that like every single day you have a desire to do heroin? No, no. Okay, because I know I've talked to other addicts who like that. There are people that are like that, but you know, I always tell people that that's a huge part of your life and that's like a driving factor when you're in it. You know, you're motivated to find ways to do whatever you want to do in terms of drugs or whatever. And in order to get past that, you need to find something else that motivates you and become something else. So, it's like, if you're always the same person, you're always going to do the same thing. So, you got to change. So, that was the biggest thing for me, you know, I found a goal and I wanted to work towards something and that was probably the biggest part of me continuing to stay sober was that I found a passion. Because without that, you know, I'd be like sitting there like, like, wait, not going at the whole time and that's not in any way to live. So, what is your advice that this guy's out there watching now who say, hey, you know, I'm in the same situation, I'm an addict, you know, I don't know how to get out of it. What's the first step, you know, would you say, to get in clean? Well, I mean, the first thing I think is to be honest with somebody else about it. Because by nature, I think we just like to hide things, you know, human nature in general, like our flaws, we don't like to put them out in the open. Unfortunately, that's kind of what you have to do to get past your addiction is to reach out. So, there's hotlines, there's websites that you can go to NNJ, I mean, for New Jersey, it's NNJA, at NNJA.com for AA meetings and stuff. There's, you know, listings and whatnot and so get to a meeting and find somebody you can talk to. Basically, you have to kind of be at a point where you're ready to do anything. I mean, that's kind of where I was at. I was desperate. So, until you reach that point, I feel it's kind of like difficult to truly get past it. Would you be like the sort of person that if someone out there was in your situation and they wanted to contact you, would you be willing to talk to them? Of course, man, yeah, I mean, I'm always available to talk to people. You know, there's been times when people have reached out to me and I've been there for him and I would do that in a heartbeat. So, with anybody needs to talk for sure, you can reach out to me and reach out to me through Instagram, my Instagrams, approrypovitch.com. If people think that's my last name, that's good. Yeah, that's good. I like that. I like that. I like that. Let's talk about this classic physique thing because you're a pro now. That means you're really good. Did you know you had this natural talent for physique development prior to your whole drug thing? Absolutely not. I never planned on going to the gym and saying, you know, I was inspired by bodybuilding, but I never thought I could be involved in the sport just because I looked at myself and I looked at these guys and at the time there was no classic physique. So there was men's physique and, you know, I wasn't so interested in that and there was bodybuilding and I'm like, yeah, I'm not really on that level. So, you know, it was a nice segue, but in the time that I got sober, I put on probably 55 pounds of muscle, I'd say. And yeah, it was wild. But yeah, I didn't have any intention of becoming a bodybuilder or getting involved or doing a show. I started working out and people were telling me, yeah, you should do a show. And enough people told me to the point where I was like, oh, I'm going to do a show. And I just made it to my next goal. So that's kind of how it started. Actually, I was watching some videos and I wanted to go up to beds to get Steve's opinion, which probably at the time might have not been a great idea, but because I looked terrible, but I ended up meeting Justin up there. Justin, L.A.M.I. my friend, he took a look at me and saw some of my poses and said, yeah, you got something that you can work with, but you got a lot of work to do. So that was a year and almost two years ago now. And yeah, we put some work in. And the Atlantic State's last year was my first show and I won that show. And I won that class, my class B in that show. And then I went on to university and I was terrible. So nervous, I looked around and I think I immediately was just flooded with court as all and was just like, right, just yeah, looked terrible. But that was my mission statement was, you know, next year I'm going to come in. I don't care what happens, but I'm going to be 100%. And that's pretty balsy. Second show, however, you were up on a pro qualifier stage. So you probably ran over your head experience wise, really. Yeah, for sure. I definitely, I don't know that. And that's certainly blown there, but, you know, it was a good experience. It was definitely something I needed. It was humble for sure. Yeah. And you come back this year. How many pounds of muscle in the game for the last year? I from last year, I was on stage at 193 at Atlantic States. And I was I was 197. Wow. Or no, I was 199 this year. Okay. So it was like six pounds of muscle, but I think the conditioning is still so. Sure. So now you're pro. I mean, it was very good year. You're pro now. It didn't pause the game. Do you feel like, is it like a let down now? You know, because after you win, it's like, all right, now what do I do? You know, honestly, I actually had that feeling where I was ecstatic. But we were packing up everything in the hotel room. And I was like sad. I'm like in, like vacation's over. Yeah. It happened too fast, right? Exactly. It was just done. And then, man, now it's back to real life. But yeah, I mean, it was overall probably one of the best experiences in my life. And I got to share it with my girlfriend and my daughter and my family. It was awesome. Is your family like in shock that you actually have, you know, overcome the heroin addiction? And now you're actually done something crazy productive? Yeah. And they're so proud. You know, they tell me you're very often. My father is like 30 years sober from drinking. So he kind of had a difficult time with me. Does he always want to me to do the right thing? Sure. He had hard time balancing what he could do and what he couldn't do, you know, to help me. And, but now yeah, they're very proud of me and they're, they're amazed. You know, my dad is always telling me he's like texting me and saying, oh, hey, Mr. Pro. What are you doing? It's just wild. They're not, you know, they don't know much about body. Right. Very, very, very supportive. Do you guys have, you and Justin, have you picked out a pro show you want to do next year? Um, not quite. I just know that for me, I want to take a four year at least. Um, so what I was saying is maybe Tampa. Um, but that's just that speculation right now. Right. I'm not really sure. I just know that I want to grow and keep making improvements. But also, uh, it have a little bit of some normalcy for a while. You know, just just get back to normal and enjoy my daughter. She's, she just turned two on the 23rd and, um, I'll have to, you know, there was a lot of times. That was a week. That was a week out and I was like, how to birthday parties. So I felt pretty bad, but, um, you know, it was worth it. Excepting worth it. They don't really, it two years old. They don't really know anyway. Yeah. Next year, right next year, my son's two and a half. They don't know. Yeah. Just all of the, the family and the in more. Right. Like, what the hell is this guy doing? Sleeping on the couch. Well, Roy, congratulations. Huge win. Got the pro card. We'll see you on a pro stage next year. You've overcome the addiction of people want to get in touch with him. Check out his Instagram. Uh, you know, I think the message is sending is, is terrific. There's a lot of people suffering with addiction out there. If you could overcome a serious heroin addict, the way you, a heroin addiction, the way you did and come out on top, the way you have. Uh, that's, uh, that's the, that's the, Isn't that the American dream, really? Yeah. I mean, sure. And, you know, I'm definitely, um, very enthusiastic about helping people, so if anybody does want to reach out for sure, please do. Don't, don't hesitate. And I mean, there's certainly a way to overcome this. And, um, you know, if I can do it, anybody can, because I'm, I'm fine heart at heart, pretty lazy. I really don't like to do that much, but, um, when it comes to bodybuilding, I kind of took that in a different direction. So, uh, but, yeah, so thank you very much for having me on the show. Sure. And enjoy the victory and enjoy that, uh, that IPB crowcard. I'm sure you'll be purchasing it very shortly to have it in your wallet. Yes. I will. Thank you very much. All right. That's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with WikiVidi, Specy Nutrition Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbau. We'll see you next time.

Welcome back to RX Muscles RX Spotlight. I'm Dave Palombo and today we're going to be highlighting two special competitors and this show is going to be dedicated from now on in the future into highlight new competitors. Maybe not people who are household names but competitors who have overcoming obstacles, people are new to the stage but who have made some of a splash their first time out. And today's guests are Anna Heritage and Gary Cheney her coach. I want to welcome you guys to the first edition of our spotlight. Thanks for having us Dave. Thanks for having me. Now Anna you had a very story that might normally seem like an incredible story of overcoming incredible odds to get the stage but in today's world of COVID it seems like your story is becoming all too common. The lays getting on stage because of COVID not having a gym available. You had an accident we're going to talk about in there as well. How frustrating was it getting to your fairy first show? Would you by the way, one the overall at my good friend Dean Kabudak showed this the few weeks ago? It it was a process that's for sure. Last year was frustrating beyond words. This year was frustrating beyond words just getting to the stage after everything that happened last year and then a really frustrating 18 week prep but we finally made Anne thankfully it was all worth it with the overall and everything but yeah like you said one thing after another. And now you first of all the show is the NPC North Coast championships once again run by my good friend Dean Kabudak who was a great bodybuilder back in his day we've interviewed him before and you decided hey you know what I want to compete you you committed to doing it you had been training for a couple of years and then things started to go wrong give us the timeline that you basically followed and all the different incidents that kind of popped up. So last year we started prepping before COVID had ever been thought of or anything. Everything was great my body responded perfect no issues. We got to about two weeks out and then that's when everything started shutting down and canceling so of course show that canceled two weeks out needless to say I was devastated. Now when you would I know that you know I have different competitors I work with and sometimes incidents pop up they can't compete did you go crazy need everything in sight after that. Oh absolutely absolutely I it was probably a month straight so that was a series depression yeah. I and then it was just one thing after another after that I ended up losing my job because they're setbacks and the company just had to downsize basically so then I was unemployed and had nothing to work towards at that point or so I felt like I had to help me health issues my dad was in the hospital just one thing after another took it's with the gyms closed up are you at any point yeah so the gyms closed down about one week into my reverse and it was just all downhill from there those basement workouts were not cutting it. It's hard to motivate yourself at home especially after you know stopping a week or two weeks out from your show and I get understand how that could definitely thrust you into depression and it's just losing your job and having you dad in the hospital said you know what pulled you out of all this. To be honest with you it took a long time really it wasn't until like fall when I finally got through my back surgery like well I'm sure we'll talk about but what happened what you're back now was that we were back to the gym or had that happened before the gym closed. So right after the gyms opened back up we were back to training for maybe two weeks and I just kind of hit it a little bit too hard did a little bit too much right off the back and then we lightly blowing out one of the discs in my lower back so then I was right back out of the gym. What would a woman you know of your size your bikini competitor I mean we do in crazy heavy lifts or what actually blew your disc out. I think it was a combination of trying to go too heavy too soon like just getting back into the gym and just too hard of training. What did you do? What were you actually doing when you when you had popped it? I was it was leg days both times I was doing hamstring curls squats, arty else and I think my form was just off a little bit and I was pushing it too hard and it was just so it was of one specific movement it was just like a accumulation of stuff. Yeah I kept making it worse and making it worse and then I was on the squat rack the one day and completely blew it out and then was on the floor. Oh so you went down you went down that's what I was wondering do you actually fell to the ground that that's that's not a good sign usually yeah. Yeah it was hurting pretty bad before that but then that was the final stride and so they actually went you actually had to get surgery to get that fixed. I did I went through that pain for about a month it was really to the point where I couldn't even walk or move off of the couch. Finally found a surgeon and everything to do it and then had surgery about a month later. Now when you started the rehab process is that when you met Gary and Gary started coaching you. Shortly after so I had the surgery and then it was about six weeks where I wasn't allowed to do absolutely anything then I had to go through physical therapy for a couple months and then right after that in the fall is when I met Gary and when we started working together. Now Gary what when you when you met or what kind of potential did you think you know she had in terms of for for bikini did you see that she had the potential to win a show or did you just you say you know what I'll just a lot of times I get clients I start working with them and I don't even know what their potential is and all of a sudden they start losing weight and getting in shape and I'm like oh my god she looks great. Yeah so you could I could definitely see some potential every night you can wait this because of all time and with any new client you don't necessarily know what the work ethic is or how much they want it those kind of things but you know as we got to working together and so on you start to learn more about her you start to see those things develop and you know we we developed the saying that we were you know we had to come back and that we went to ruin some people's days because she had a long journey to the stage and we wanted to make it all worth it so that was pretty much how things started rolling for us. Yeah and you want your pro-card at the 2019 North American Championships in men's physique and you'll actually be competing wide in October at the Kentucky Pro. Yeah that's where that's the plan as of right now should be starting a flat here with the next few weeks and get to get back to it. Oh good luck at that show. Now Anna when you when you eventually got into shape obviously you show up at the show. Do you feel confident going to to first show right so I mean how did you feel going into the show in terms of like can I win this or were you going there just to you know basically hey I'm gonna do my best you know if I placed up five that's great what was your mindset going in. When I started out I was like oh I'm gonna win this and then we got further into prep but deeper got a little bit depleted a little bit hungry and a very Indian both had to talk me off the ledge quite a few times and at that point I was like let's just get to the stage let's just do the damn thing and be done with it I didn't have like any expectation expectations that day but it definitely went better than planned so I'll take it. Right now after you win a big show like that you know you win the overall and the cany obviously now everyone's like oh you gotta do the national you gotta do this you gotta do that obviously you know sometimes you can get a head of yourself reallessly when you look at yourself and you evaluate the pictures and how you did um what do you see do you want to go to the next level right away are you taking some time to make improvements for next year what's the goal this point? Um honestly I would love to go to nationals this year but I know looking at myself I'm not on that level yet even though I did qualify to go so the plan for now is just to kind of take a step back focus on growing getting better focus on my um weak areas and then we're gonna go for it next year and see how it goes in nationals and you know that that's a smart plan you know back in the day when when I used to compete in the 90s and then 2000s and Dean can tell you this too you know just because you qualify for the nationals because you want a regional show doesn't mean you go to the nationals if you're not ready for it so I think that's a smart move in the sense that you're you've evaluated your physique you know what your what your weaknesses are and your strengths and you can go now back to the drawing board so to speak work on that and come back better next year and I think that I think more people should you know take that approach a lot of people think oh I'm qualified I got to do nationals but you know what number one it's very expensive okay to compete and show you've got a travel there you got a paidy entry fees and you got to hotel food tanning make up hair suits all this stuff and then you know if you're not ready it's kind of just it can be discouraging and you know it's sometimes it takes away that little edge you might have had from doing well and winning the show you did exactly I could very more so I'm glad that we made that decision and we are going to wait until next year I just I think it's in our best interest so I'm just excited to see what we can do in the next year and what we can bring to the table next year Gary what would you like to see her improve upon in our physique over the next year um I think in this board you you can you can really improve everywhere unless you have a place where you just destroy everybody and on any given day especially at the national level she can be beaten any area so when we talk about her there's some posing mistakes we saw um shoulders could be more round and we're talking bikini you can always bring the glutes out she has good development in her quads so we just have to watch how big we're we're getting down you know down low but you know it's the overall pack is there's you know there's always somewhere to think her confidence you know I can talk things outside of her physique her confidence you know and just there was a lot of she stresses herself out more than she needs to so just it's just an air and care for and you know a little bit there now I I see a physique with a terrific structure a small waist I almost can see you moving up the figure if you really want to is that something that might be on the table you're not the first person to tell me that actually but I'm not sure how I feel about it I really like bikini so I think I'm gonna stick with that for now if but I'll never say never we'll see what happens down the road mate I mean even down the road I mean if you continue training I mean you like you said Gary she's got pretty big legs and you even wellness might not be out of the question you know yeah that's I mean we'd have to train to the next step or not the question yeah all right well I wanted I want to congratulate both of you guys Gary on a great job with the coaching Anna on your first big win at the overall at the NPC North Coast championships and I know you guys are training at Dean's powerhouse gym there so you're and I'm sure you got some great equipment going on over there and I really think very highly of Dean and I'm sure I'll take good care of you guys and thanks for joining us today and hopefully motivating a bunch of people and the bottom line is keep training don't stop and you can't fail right always thanks guys that'll take us to the end of our first edition of our X muscle spotlight I'm Dave Palembot we'll see you next time

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a fool Every for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the truth but we can't be humble Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle What are you? What's up? Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always By the technician Chris Asito on this September 28th 2000 and 20 evening and Chris We are almost in October ready. I can't believe it I can't believe the summer's gone. We're into full and We're falling down as a Some people would say but We're getting close to the Olympia I noticed, well, I wanted to say that I noticed that we got to be certain that article Where the, um, it's planet Hollywood Which is where the show is being taken place is closed right now Now, I also saw another article Dan Solomon actually said me where it says it's supposed to Reopen on October 8th Is this, uh, is this, I would be nervous Rack of I with the people from Olympia wouldn't you? Um, I'm in business. I'm a nervous wreck So, um, I think they have every reason to be a nervous wreck It's just the idea that, you know, The flow is going to fly in here soon, right? And what that means is that people are going to be sick from the flow And everyone who gets sick from the flow is going to be worried to have COVID Right? So, you're right, you're right. If you work at, let's say one of these hotels and you call in sick and they say, what was the Matter you say, oh, my body aches, I got a high temperature You know, you know, return to insurance, you know, I mean, in liability where you all know, tell or you're managing the hotel You tell your employees, you know, even Chris both have body aches And sick and calling in with high temperatures, but not opening today Yeah, well, I just found an article I'll put it up That shows that planet Hollywood is supposed to Return to the Vegas strip in early October, this thing October 8th They're reopening it, uh, October 8th But the hotel portion opening for the weekend And they can see no back in action daily With return or planet Hollywood comes a batch of restaurants Making the return as well, so You know, what's odd about the hotels closing in casinos When Caesar's had to close down Since they never closed, they didn't even have to close the front doors Right, because the open 24 hours? Yeah, I know. They never imagined it. So they weren't even sure how to do it It's crazy, really, you're better right? Yeah. But look at the real, it's a real problem I mean, I hope everything is, you know, in Florida they open everything The governor basically said no more restrictions on anything He tells you a question asked how much I like No, because I'm not talking to him I still think that it's, you know, it might as well be So that is safe and sorry, I always believe, you know So no, I can see that going that he opened it up Because I have my rentals down there, which That's good to use for you, I guess, right? Yeah, quasi good news until I end up like the, you know, the Olympic hotel I'm shut back down. Yeah, do you think that that might be a problem To be on the Olympic? But they might shut it down again. I think that, you know, the problem of Vegas is Right, it's a transit area. You know, it's not like main reporters Canada Which is sealed off from the US And then we boarded New Hampshire and the Atlantic Ocean And that's it. If people flying it all the time from anywhere Into Vegas Mm-hmm So it only takes, you know, Whatever Ten super spreaders and intoxicate the whole place Right, I don't, I don't have the, the, this Vegas is surviving This whole quarantine No idea If those hotels, thinking about what those hotels Must cost to run A day Per day Electric bill Yeah What about the mortgage on those places, you know, That they owe the banks here? Do you see time, did you have the auto-police Said you from Times Square from, was it? TGIFs Yeah One of the chain restaurants in Times Square Right There income is down 93% since Oh Marko They used to do, they're doing $2,500 a day And they used to do 30, 35,000 a day And it probably cost them like A kangaroo day just to survive there Because with the rents Some of the hotels in Times Square They converting to apartments Are they really, wow? Yeah, cut to them Yeah Maybe you can get in there and grab some cheapies I know Well, we'll call it a pseudo-polombo Ha ha ha I think the governor of Florida is opening everything up Because he wants everyone move it here I can't, you know, I know my real estate friend Gwen here is telling you the people are buying houses Chris I'm sure Side unseen Just on video tours they're seeing I'm like, it's crazy People want to get into, you're like, where you are Yeah Right where I am, I'm talking about, yeah I mean, I would consider your quote out in the country Right? I mean, David's not on top of each other Well, just where I'm, yeah, but you know what? What I am is like kind of like an anomaly Even in my area The house is a closer, most of the house I'm just happy to live in a little kind of, you know, private community But most people don't have as much property as I have So my goal is to, I'm like, you know, I'm a real estate I want the whole block, you know I want the game for the street Yeah What my sister, I got to get my sister across the street I got to get you, I got to find a big lot for you Also to move down to Yeah, I may have to text us keep going out That's right Because you're going to be a Donald Trump paid 750, you see that I, yeah, 750 bucks don't know Yeah, I'm worried about even main With the nature of each percent, stating, come to act You know, people always ask me this And I'm not that a debt on it But how would, how do, very wealthy people get away with Not paying tax because they have a lot of right-offs Is that with the promise? I mean, that's what they do it They have a pencil with a huge eraser on it No, I know, but what is if they have like a lot of businesses that are losing money So it comes off the ducks from there What they're required to pay I think, I think the thing with him is that He had a billion dollar loss in 1990, a billion And you can carry that forward for five years, right? No, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's about 20 years Oh, I didn't know that Real estate might be 20, it might be in contismal until the To the billion dollars is used up Wow So he has a loss of a billion And then he has income of a billion He ends up paying zero Oh, I said, no, that makes sense But I think it's more to it than that Who knows what's, but I could say I did see the 750 And that is a lot though, you know, I mean, that's probably hurt 750 bucks I know, I'm not making it, you're joke Hey, so this is paying something, right? Yeah But he did take a big cut in salary But he money became president, right? And he said he, and he doesn't take the money from the president, right? He doesn't take a salary He gives it to Donald Jr. I think Oh, he doesn't repeat The old Jr is a big bodybuilding fan from where he's in there Yeah, you know, he watches the show Oh, gosh Yeah, better be nice What did you hear that from? I know people who know He's a little less comfortable show, as I guess He weren't, he trains, he trains, yeah, and he's a bodybuilder He said him is in many products, he if he used I should, if I can get it and dress on him I should send him a little care package Why didn't he send it and carry the white on, so get there Well, Donald doesn't, Donald doesn't work out Because he says he doesn't want to lose any energy, right? Yeah, he doesn't He's getting serious He's conserving energy Yeah Well, for someone who's age, he's got a lot of energy He does I hope I have a chance I think though he's, you know, they always said that Teddy Roosevelt was very manic He, but you know how like some people are a what they called by polar, which is be manic And then they can go into the press or stage in the romantic Yeah Suppose he said he Roosevelt was the only truly manic person And that's why they said he was so, you know, but he, he got so much done The guy never slept, he was just completely manic I don't think Donald's quite as bad as that, but I think he's got a lot of just energy You know, just, yeah He likes what he does He wakes, he can't wake the wake up and then, you know, it started sort of speed He may pop some add-on on those I don't know, when there's, all right, let's talk about some stuff Did you see Lee priest is, um, I'm taking a lot of ribbon Because he has a go-fund me campaign up Yeah, for what? Well, he wants to, he's looking to fund his, um, he needs to get some surgery Hey, look at his eyes Just another COVID related, the last COVID thing I'm going to say I just got off the go-fund me page Because music venues talk about being no business whatsoever at all, period Oh, no concerns, you mean? Yeah, so I was donating to my local different music venues No, that's nice, yeah Maybe you can donate to Lee priest, the neck and operation and stem cell treatment What's he, what's he, how much he's trying to raise? 100 grand y'all see, which is about 69,000 US Because he says he's got to go out of country, he's got to get the operation, he's got to get stem cells Which are very expensive, and then he's good, then then it's going to cost him so much to do the show And get prepared, see if he and I'll just throw it all in If they're, because the fans are always saying they want to see him on stage He said, well, if they want to see me on stage, let him fund it, five bucks a fan And, you know, and he'll be able to do the show Which is he pretty so far? Yeah, but three grand, but I, it's funny because a lot of people completely going off And so I did a little, I did a little interview with him last night Just to, you know, get people riled up And people just, they're like out, so I'm most able to don't care But a lot of people just outrage, that he would, how dare he drive around a mozzarella And then try to raise money, you know, well, don't donate money then That's what I said, you know, with Lee, the guy, well, with Keras Oh, I didn't know he drives mozzarella, I think he's going to go find me He's broke, like the music places of broke His whole thing, his whole thing is that he's like, well, if I'm going to, you know, Let's like Trump raised in money or Biden raising money, you know, for his good Re-election campaign. I mean, they have a lot of money themselves, why do they need to raise money? Because they don't want to spend their own money, you know, people want to see him Like the Daytona money. If you want to see Lee, pre-skip back on stage, you know, And have to get his neck fixed so he can, he can compete, you know, with the symmetrical body because he's got like some nerve damage on one side And you got to be got to fork over a few bucks and I think enough people Lovely priest, I'm sure black been probably donated to $1,000 So, to the fund. How long is he, so he has three grand out of sixty nine grand, how long is he, As a man to the three? I don't know, I guess he'll run his long as he's got it. He's only been doing it a couple days. He's up to twenty eight hundred bucks now, twenty eight seventeen. Well, you know, that's good publicity that you've had a lot. Yeah. Good publicity. Nick Trigili is going nuts like on this whole thing. Like so I, which Rich Lee loves, you know, the fact loves to rip a, you know, Rip Nick Trigili stuff. Why would Nick Trigili say? No, he's outranged it. He's going to do a whole podcast on it, And at least like, you know, making fun of him and everything like that. You know, breaking his balls a little bit. So anyway, if you want to donate to the lead priest, to neck and operation and stem cell treatment fund, and you can go on and go Fund me and click on that. I get, I get no proceeds. He did say he's going to have me coach him now. If he gets the, the operation. I know, but he, that's why he's going to use me, just to get people mad at him. I don't know. He wants me to be part of team priest. He would prefer that you, that you train him actually, you know, but I just cut so. That's true. You'd like to work with me. I bet you could probably do a good job. Well, because he's older. So, you know, you, you got Sean Rotten's older. They're about the same age. Come all's 50, so if you're, you, you, you, you, you may be you're going to be the old man. You're, you old man. Did you, hey, you know what, I heard that, um, Birdle Fox died. Did you hear that? No, I did. And so I'm talking to that. I don't know if it's true or not. I've been trying to look it up. Keep asking you to get Rick Wayne on the show. Asked him, he, he was, he had me in hard. What did he say? No, he's like, I don't know. It's like it was complicated, you know. That's him. He's complicated. But, you know, when you do the interview with him, you'll say, you know, it was worth it. No, I want to, I, I, I talked about what he went back and forth in a little bit. I'm sorry. Nothing against, nothing against no one who thinks they are been around the sport for a long time. Yeah. I'm quite a Joe leader. I don't think anyone knows the inside of the school. And anyone knows the inside with, you know, Arnold, Franco and John, Generation, and as much as Rick Wayne. No, I know. I want to get him on. I've been, I've been reaching out. Rick Wayne for people who don't know, was an unbelievable bodybuilder, phenomenal physique, who ended up being the editor and chief of muscle build of what was muscle fitness. And people don't even know what that is, right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Which would bring me back. Did Rick Wayne know the brutal talk? Well, you, why you saying it? There I think that from the same kind of book from saying, Richard, believe. Oh, really? Oh, so that's the connection. Yeah. And Rick was Joe's right, right, right here, man. And then he wanted, and one day he said, okay, no more, no more nothing can be with five building. There's Rick Wayne right there for those of you don't know. And the 60s, as I'm looks like Jose Raymond's out. Yeah. Or Bill Graham. Looks like he looked like Bill Graham. Yeah. Yeah, he, he, him and I went back at Facebook a few times and I, I, I, I, I get so distracted. I got to keep on top of these guys. You know, sometimes he's older guys with it with the technology. Or not says good, you know, with the internet connections. And it's a little more difficult to make it happen. But I'll do it. Now, our friend over there at my sugar daddy, you know, that website. My sugar daddy still controlling. That's the name of YouTube channel. He put up another video last week. He had the video of me doing the black bean impressions. This week he had me doing, NASA impressions. So let me see if I could figure out how to put that up. I want to put it up with the, with the voice. You know, you're, your NASA impression and your black man, if all your impressions, so the best when you're completely and utterly exhausted. Yeah. So, the only the best when we're literally ready to policy. I know. I think I had a show to you. Okay. I think I can do it now. Hold on. All right. I even look like NASA there a little bit. Sure. Let's let me play this thing. This is worth playing the whole thing. It's pretty, I even left. Sometimes I get embarrassed by this thing, but I actually thought I did pretty good. So, a story in the eight did poison me because he was worried that I was coming for his title. I think I was poisoned at the 97 Olympia where I should have brought home the first place trophy. Many people in the tens, you've, you've, a jumbo, a jumbo, you've, you've told me that yourself. Yes, yes, that I should have won. But I think that the, I think the Dorian has poisoned me, yes. NASA, you know, why would Dorian pour poison you? He won the show. Yes, that, that, that, that, that's very involved. I, I cannot go into it right now, but I believe that to be true. Training is always good enough. Season with the closer come to a contest. The less you feel good, actually while you're working out because you're low carbs. The tired, you're going to three times on a belly base of the gym. So the closer come to show them my exhaustive attack, basically get. Yes, it's exciting though, isn't it? I would say it's exciting if you finish while if you don't finish while it's not exciting. Oh, yeah, that's. Can you depress and you still think Ronnie's the guy to beat? Um, I'm your friend. Um, no, all guys are the top six last year. Um, very good guys and all the top six guys from us here in the previous year. Could have won once or twice the, the Olympia before. It's, uh, not only Ronnie, Kevin is very good. Sean is very good. Flex, there's not competing this year. It's also very good. Also Chris, come here. Thank you. And, uh, for sure, I think I can switch you with the right. So I really like it, the specific day. Well, thanks very much for talking to us and now I'll leave you two fans. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, dude, you look very good. Uh, yes, yes. And I would go to the bathroom and if I was hanging out with some girl, he would like try to, you know, give him his room key and he'd be like, Oh, I have no stress of body. And, uh, I don't know why you were with that guy. I speak eight languages and, you know, he is a drug monster. And if you watch me out on us now, I thank you my friend and I say, Good night. That's awesome, buddy. Oh, my God, do you can't make this stuff off this is good stuff? I believe that, uh, Anyway, that's my tribute to NASA. Yes, thank you very much. Yeah, that was a good question. Yeah, yes. Chris, I think that it would be good for you to work with the, the majitly priest because he, He needs all the help you can get. Maybe you can get the Sean Ray to lend him the, the lifts that he wears in his shoes so that he looks taller at the press conference. Lee, Lee might do well with that. But if he decides to do the, to 12 division, Maybe he could be the midget champion. I think that he probably has, you know, I call him armzilla because he only has arms, but You know, That was the most politically correct to NASA probably ever was. Oh, yeah, yeah, that was even picked the bad one. You know, usually he's insulting to the women interviewers. Well, I'm just he's just throw a second one under the bus lightly. Yeah, he's, he's not the most politically correct person. Let's talk about, um, I don't know, what do we want to talk about? Well, I wanted to just mention there was, there was a, there was a pro show. This past weekend and like Tahoe, there was a bikini pro show that was won by. Actually, you know, Ashley caught us to loss the show. She was she's been in almost every show this year. Can he see Sam's all one that show. He's pulper picture. Everyone says we don't cover the women anymore. I want to at least give them some sort of do. Who's everyone? There we go. I'm stalling here. Dave, see my radio to be on me. Yeah, what about that? I found out today that you know, I've ready to just worry about it. I can only imagine why. For during the, I don't know, Mr. the radio. I know. And that makes of 1918. They are meant to heat up apartment building so hot that you can leave all the windows open all winter. Wow, really. So I thought they were to kill the bed bugs maybe back then. So that things could, you know, air could circulate and it could still be like 75 degrees in the apartment. Huh, interesting. People make one of my radio behind me. That's, well, yeah, I mean, you have an old house. Like, you have one of your house built originally. I mean, 18 something something something something something. Yeah, I mean, my father would call that a classic. It is a classic. This girl lives the winter. Casey Sample. Yeah. Crazy. How many people need this spend? That's it. She had the TV Girls so good nowadays compared to what they were when they first started. That is off the hook. She said, I would call them. Your beard. What does it call them? Be your barrel. Yes, I'm kind of named like the. The, the duty to listen. She looks like somebody grow. Yeah, it's I mean, the bikini of these types of bikini girls are really really impressive. I love the physics actually. I didn't like it when it first started because it was really like a hot body contest now. It's Really athletic you know And Ashley she beat Ashley caught once I've pulled that picture and she was impressive too She's always impressive. She's the three-time Olympic Olympic Olympic a chave and the you know what the finding crisis When she won the Olympia I didn't like her physique. I thought that they were given her gifts because I didn't really she didn't really have a lot of You didn't like it. You was Like that she didn't have enough Leanness and muscle right right she was she was athletic but she had no like like her body just look like she had been training for six months, you know Now she's got a killer body Good sessions I mean, but she's got she's you see her also she's but watch her Instagram She's got she's a very entertaining person. She's got a great personality. I've been interviewed before and She I just love her personality. So For her to lose I mean that this was like an Olympic a lineup here. They had in the Tahoe And she's been doing the old Milo Sarsha. She's been doing every show Yeah Which you know that's hard to date to diet you're around like that. It's crazy Well, there's no bulk and face or keep me that hard. Well, I mean, but still for women Now you know women they don't stay lean all year round. That's so that's so That's so easy Ben body goes bulk up and then they love the eat Yes, ohm home route how many how many guys do you work with? I'm hungry. I'm hungry That's part of the game you know hungry How long are you like what are you so hungry for you? This is what you do for a living. I said don't worry 100 shouldn't matter you It's a pretend you're in jail You were in jail right if you were in jail you would be the hunger wouldn't be so important you want to get out of jail You don't really important Border states was this past week as well and say a go States man that shows me going over years. I've been trying to find picture the winner the guy was from India One the immense physique Who won trial time? Chawan I want to see pictures. I don't see I looked on NPC news. I don't think they have the pictures up yet Yeah, they all know that That's I mean That might was that the first that was that the first Indian ever to win immense physique over overall? I mean, sure Prussia For India Maybe I know what's that guy's name the Justin words with a mid-roy. I don't think you want to show them On you spin second and two twelve shows. I know he just see I don't think you want to show though He switched did he switch right or he's still in class right or is he doing two twelve I don't know that's a good question. I think I don't think he's worked with dust in anymore is he? He loves oh me. Are you you tell me that right me and love yeah Yeah, they don't have to pick them up the pictures up on NPC news yet I'll have to look next week. I'll try to get them up to show you guys But congratulations you're going through the Olympian. That's got to be exciting, right? It's amazing you got over here from India Then that other than happen to notians It's funny isn't it funny how like Pakistan and India they're like basically the same country right? I mean they're right next to each other. I mean the same people basically just you know split by religion and if you're in Pakistan There's no way just into the US What? Yeah, but I mean it did this they're basically living the same region but they like the Indian Indians can fly here anytime They want and then then the Pakistanis that are on the know fly West to right Crazy so We got Chicago coming up in a couple weeks it looks like it's gonna shape it up to be a pretty good lineup How are you and you know it's in that land all right? Yeah, no, they moved it yeah Smart they should actually hold every show in Florida now there's no restrictions You know like we said earlier for me. I don't have a pretty lineup on it No, I don't know who's gonna be exactly in the show, but I know that there's a lot of you have you hiters I know Justin Rodriguez is doing that show which he's gonna be one of the favorites A key mole is doing correct. Yeah, yeah Yeah I He's doing it Yeah, I was gonna ask you that now I don't know why Randy wouldn't do the That Al-A-Cante that Al-Cante Spain show because that's right, you know Top three qualify and I mean he's in Europe already and I mean he's close to your bereadish say Well, you're gonna see me during Chicago with air one of the two I mean he's got it right he's got to do something I also have to that right or is the show in Romania and November It's at a possibility to qualify to the left Is that an open show? I believe there's an open-end Well, I believe Thank I see they're holding the Dubai muscle shell again. That's good news for the The Gimmons give him some pro cards. Remember I went through that a couple years ago He loved it That's why you did the joke in Coleman and spirit. Yeah, yeah, I'd love to go back there again at some point Dubai is pretty open. I think I don't think there's any restrictions of or I don't know if there's many restrictions over there I'm not sure why you know I did I told you the yeah, I told you they they called me tested me right before the my colonoscopy I didn't talk about my colonoscopy How to go good? I'm clear. I got nothing no polyps nothing Fiber lies sales with public crash. You know what I was worried about that to be honest with you, but I I said to myself You know I knew I had no cancer. I said there's no way I know I first I don't like you that There's no cancer a lot of my life. That's I don't know what that But I sit to myself look you know what I have an eating doing fiber for 25 years I've been taking my fiber lies for my for 10 years that it's been around and I had the cable you know Eating well and taking probiotics and you know I really take care of my my That gesture system okay, so I said if I have polyps, you know, there's a potential because my father had him my sister had him It runs in the family. I said but I believe and I didn't want to jinx myself I believe that I'll be clean I said because I think that I Do things the right way and I and I truly believe that your immune system is designed To knock out number not only cancer cells because we have a natural immunity against cancer We have these natural killer cells in our immune system But they're also designed to take out cells that are growing even that are not cancers like like a Polypathy because Pob's you lead Pob's they'll turn into cancer Okay, so that's why they you do a colonoscopy they clip them out and then there's no problem But you know they start out like that Now What happens is if you have a lot of stagnation in your colon because it's not the food is not moving through fast enough And it's just kind of hanging out there because you're not eating enough fiber in your diet You call in is getting weak What happens is the the environment and they get very acidic and the immune system that normally functions well in there is can't function It's like a dirty fish tank The fish don't thrive very well in a dirty fish tank because the water is just filthy and they just they can't They can't excrete waste properly out of their body because there's too much waste in the water already So that's it that's kind of like an analogy to what goes on the colon so you want it you want to constantly keep changing the water So to speak you want to keep moving stuff through and when you do that your immune system functions the way it's supposed to an acclaimed stuff off So This was a true statement from the the doctor he actually said to me after and I actually remembered this even though I was on purple Which is a wonderful which is a wonderful drug It's embedded by a real anesthesiologist not by a guy in your and your bedroom like Mike Jackson's guy did He said to me he goes yeah, you I got to tell you this is the cleanest colon I've seen in The last 10 years I've been doing this I said I'll really I said that that's a compliment I should have just I told him I said I use I make a fiber something to go as well You should your sales should be through the roof after this call asked me is I don't need to see back pretend years. I said So who was it so bad and I did it in a hospital because you know I got my defibrillator So because of that they got it they got to do these tests when they knocked out in a hospital Which which actually it took a little longer because of all the but I actually liked the better because I felt like I was in a much more comfortable environment When you got knocked out was out like a vacation from the kids Yeah, yeah, definitely it was it was absolutely it was it was You know and here's the whole thing people make a big deal with this colonoscopy the whole procedure took 12 minutes Gross, that's the whole test 12 minutes It took of I had a prepapher the whole day before that I had a like drink this Go lightly solution it's like it's like four liters it's over a gallon of this stuff You got a drink eight ounces every 10 or 15 minutes between four and six p.m And then you got to do the other four two liters between 10 and 12 p. 12 12 a.m. You know, and you can't have any solid food all day and you got to drink I was going crazy I was so hungry all day and I was I just wanted to eat something but I I stuck to the thing I was eating a lot of jello Sugar free to you know my problem is that my colorically I was probably really love but I what I did was I mixed Like like a Gatorated light into that go lightly so I put four liters of Gatorated there because I think you know what I know myself If I don't replenish my electrolytes I'm gonna get I'm gonna start cramping and stuff like that you know I'm gonna pull like a What's his name who cramps all the time let's say I Yeah, the one that we're pulled pull the look so I gulp down the first dose and I realized that I had it in a shaker cup which was actually 16 ounces So I down 16 ounces to start with and they say go they say take it easy on the first couple doses because you know you can get crampy from it So I got a little weird I thought a little weird right after but I don't know if it was just like a lot But you're not my wife say she's like what are you doing? That's like double the amount you're supposed to drink I'm like I and I must have I probably drank it seriously in about three seconds I didn't even hasten and support them. I think this is gonna be easy. I could do this all day long So after about an hour of doing these every 20 minutes, you know doses Then you start having to go to the bathroom the first couple times a little is a little uncomfortable But now some people get nauseous some people get like really crampy I think because I kind of use five on a regular basis. I didn't have that much in me. So and I had many anything all day So I get the first you know a couple poops were a little you know more explosive I guess it's kind of like diarrhea and that's nothing gross anyone out and then You take like I don't like I'm reprieved from six to ten at p.m. But then I fell asleep in my door in his room so I didn't start to 11 p.m. So I was behind so Chris So I think I had to play catch up, right? So I started started doing a little bit more than I should have But at this point I have nothing left to me. So I'm doing it. I'm basically pooping out whatever I'm drinking, you know It's just going right through me So by like 12 30 25 I actually finished my Therapy of the drinking. I was saying and I was just I was slamming these things that literally I was like there's no way this is going to defeat me because I know some people get they just can't handle it You know I'm like this is this is a joke come on The drink yeah because think about it's a lot of liquid you know and it doesn't taste it doesn't taste terrible doesn't taste great Taste it like I said I didn't even taste it I just poured it down. I didn't if you sat there and you know Some people sit there and they try to sip this stuff you can't do that you had it's like with my Firmalent shit you can't try to drink it like it's like freaking vodka more titty you got to just go up it down Some people don't have that ability get it in a some gag maybe they want to throw up you know So I had no problem that I got it down I did this One sitting so I was I was working I was working I was in the office right here. I was working Until one the two in the morning actually answering emails so I got the stuff down I went to the bathroom every 10 15 minutes you know Relieve myself. I went sleep. I've got about three hours of sleep. I woke up the next morning with the You know I'm at the hospital So Yeah, I encourage everyone. Have you got a call mask me? Or not you got to go get what you got to do you know I because you get 10 years after that if you clear They don't they don't want to see if it's 10 years it's worth it because you know what Just to put peace of mind they tell people It's supposed to get one into your told me Look at look at George Farron. I mean he had but hit cone cancers So I mean you you don't know I mean he and he said I know it needs claim he's a clean eater I don't know if it's was stress maybe induced by him or what what what happened but you know You don't want to you don't want to find out you have cone cancer by going for it Column us be after you have symptoms of something being wrong So at least if you go ahead of time if you do have a couple of polyps in there You can get them cleaned out and then you can get on my fiber wise product and start doing it the right way see they won't you don't get any more You know that's the key now but seriously I'm not trying to sell you probably I'm just trying to say this certain things that I like to put out there as I'm getting older and you're getting older and we're getting older This certain things you got to start doing and to take care of yourself and I'm learning you know luckily I always knew about fiber And I knew that that that would be something that down the road would be something that would save my call You know just like Not eating a lot of sugar Conchucking your blood sugars is not a bad thing too because you don't want to wait till you have full blown diabetes to start you know Treating so to speak and then taking care of you know issues that you might have if you're running high fasting blood sugars You want to address it now before you burn your pancreas so Likewise if you have a blockage in the coronary artery if you're heart That's why I tell people to give a cardiac CT scan You want to know about that so you can get a steady put in this so you don't drop dead of a heart tag You know these are Very minor things that will enable you to live a much longer and help your life I mean it's not like they're really that inconvenient, you know It's just that people don't want to do it because it's like the whole idea of you know I thought I put I put I should have had a colonoscopy two years ago. I can't put it off The checklist be there. I mean I didn't know you supposed to get colonoscopy after what 50 yeah 50 and if you have if you have a history of Cancer of colon cancer you should do it at 40 really You know it's funny. I have a lot of I have a history my mother's whole side they're all good cancer But no one no one actually died of colon cancer There was liver cancer. There was pancreatic cancer breast cancer The gram of the somehow had lung cancer even though she didn't smoke I don't know but no one had the colon cancer which was good because you know that that can be inherited But my father's side no one had colon cancer but they only get polyps my sister had polyps I thought that pop but they didn't use any but no one do anything about fibers So My father didn't eat terrible. I mean But he didn't really have any He just he would go for colonoscopy. I think twice and they they clipped a couple polyps out But he was older already so I don't know he was probably in his 70s when even then I 40 50s and 60s. I mean what he was There was less terrible things to eat back you want to hear someone complain about a colonoscopy You should have heard my father with the prep that he had a kind of the complaining that he did with the prep I was that's what I was traumatized that's why I didn't want to do this Chris I remember my father complaining about this prep that he had to do and you know shit my brains That's like my father's favorite expression Oh, it can't take this. It's all right. I can't stop going to the bathroom. I'm scrapping my brains out You know that's that's all you we talk about I thought he was getting like you know I thought that they were like I didn't know what they would do until me He was he made it in like it was like like like a week He was doing the straight there was no way they was only one day obviously and then you know my dad doesn't like to get up early the next morning So of course he was stressing about at the home I to he didn't sleep I think I had a drive of there either I drove him or his friend or I don't remember but he was complaining the whole way I remember the morning I don't know if I I think I was I think at one one of the call-offs Because I was still living in his house or maybe my I think I had gotten divorced at that time or separated And I was living there he was complaining nonstop about this super call and Oscar B and then he complained afterwards Chris That they ripped open his asshole Not my words his words that he was you know they they somehow were too rough down there Now you're asleep when they do this but he when he woke up he said he had like I don't know he's bleeding. I don't know what he had So now I'm now I was a nervous wreck and they were gonna maybe I have the same you know Maybe I think it's gonna happen to me. You know, you know, they can they always make you sign this thing that if they Perfect rate you're interested you know that that responsible Related you can send speeding of Colons and all that you can send a son stop for some Paralyze down it with flexlorus. Oh, that's right You know what I tell me Kind of it makes me the address. I'm gonna send full of innocent flex lures and and them at a send a son must Offer some fiber lies to use because I want to make sure flex doesn't get any hemorrhides before the one beer So so I'm petrified so I'm petrified so I'm on the table Chris you know they make you turn I thought they you got to turn over on your stomach that they have you on your son so I'm on my side I got the IV in my arm and they're gonna they have a huge syringe they're gonna have they're gonna pump in all the The propapher like you you ready to go to sleep? I'm like yeah, so they push it into the IV They're like all right you need to go to sleep. I said before I fall asleep I started feeling right before just be gentle down there. I'm thinking my dad now I'm thinking oh I forgot to tell them about my dad and then and he had a bad expert Everything went fine. I have no problems. I know nothing afterwards My father just makes a big he used to make a big deal about everything like this. He would make such a big deal that I I thought everything Every procedure was so dramatic. I told you that I told you about his cat. I don't know if anyone wants to get He had the cataract surgery his cataract is so bad. He I don't think he can't even see he got so he gets the one eye done And then he's complaining Chris for weeks Months that he it he sees I think I told you see it's it looks like there's a the fantasy scene through He's like I had his a grid or I see his a grid because they ruined my eyes. I said you couldn't see before What's the difference? He's like I I said did you get the other eye done? He goes no I'm not going back I kept seeing through a grid. He goes that can't even get decided. I said well, maybe you think through a grid because the other eye is You know It's foggy and this one's read you know you could be screwed up your vision He's like you don't know what you're talking about So finally I guess you went back for another eye exam like two after two years and they told me you got to get the other eye done you got a major cataract So he he finally gives in and get to he castles it like four times and then he finally gets it done And his visions perfect. I said it has the grid because what grid? I said you said you used to see through a grid because I don't know what you're talking about I said you said what are you what are you what are you pulling on me because he kid at this point Maybe he doesn't remember or if he blocked it out I said you told me after the first surgery that you could you was seeing through a grid it look like and that's why you weren't getting the other eye done because you What you thought they they screwed you out It's kind of when you talk to me. Did I said that I said yeah He said well I said I don't say I see fine now. I said well all right Well, that's good. So you know he makes mountains out of mojo. It was my father My phone was the same way did that Was it everything was a big deal Hey, it was a big deal I felt so shoveling this now doing the lead what you what what are our parents make everything such a big deal They ruined they ruined my My mother used to come to his Irish complaint at all me tellyons. She just said it was an ambulance dream I believe it I believe it Believe it So Well, you could have been just that day you'd go into the doctor. He promised would have more hits on that Going to the doctor and now actually the film good Column clenched I should have told all thing you know they send your home with pictures did you know that Oh, well, I can you know my I get I pickas of my colon they actually take with little snapshots Your refrigerator Yeah, it's on my refrigerator. I if it's like you know when you kids bring home like an a an a plus paper You put on the refrigerator and I put my colon on the refrigerator Yeah, they show the different portions the a standing the transverse the descending the sigboyed colon Yeah, and they show all those spots and you can see and then was it did look very clean to me Okay Yeah Yeah, I was looking at an ant one by ant one valiant did a had a great video Who's talking about people who ask them if the dieting is hard and if he's in a hates people who complain about have oh The diet so hard and it was just based on giving relevancy to like you know he was living in like like on the street like eating in soup kitchens He's like that's hard. You know The eating is that eating six meals a day and go through the chimps that hard I thought that was a great Allege Yeah right yeah People think they think everything's so hard like go to jail I think we go to jail for five months. I think that that's way harder than than dining for a you know For 16 week contest diet We got picture answer one did I love his his classic poses he does He may not be mr. Olympia ever but he certainly has a he certainly is a busy Remember that on this show you thought he was gonna be mr. Olympia like three years ago You said I think the sky can be mr. Olympia. I think he's got the talent to do it I don't know if you know, I don't know if it'll accomplish it, but he's got You know he's got a physique that people would look at and say you know I want to look like that and I think that's and them's that's that's better It's got to marketable look you know that's I think people can relate his physique Because they're like wow that's an impressive look I think I could I I like look at Sergio leave a junior two. I say you know that's a that's a physique. I'd be happy with you know I said about Tony Freeman all the time Yeah, how is Tony Freeman? I just mentioned his name with John Roe from today He's got to be like 60 right? He's gonna be mad at me. He's probably like 58 or something but no He's he's the age of somebody he talked about colon you want to get out you want to talk Get someone to talk about colon health Tony Freeman is the guy to get on into the animals He's really into Column health more so than I am. That's for sure Yeah I know I don't know where he's but he's been up to let me see let's look at his Instagram He has a good picture Yeah, that picture I'm not playing with this little yeah, I'm looking at that picture Is that a physique you'd love to have Kill a physique He would wear those he would wear outfits that I'm like holy me. He look like a superhero You know it come up it reminds me of the Aaron Baker used to wear outfits like that, you know Yeah, right? And who did look better in the gym than Aaron Baker? Probably the best gym for C. Yeah It's for you You know probably one of the most underrated by the ones in the FBI Yeah You know they could guys screw it because when he left the I.TV for Vince McMahon's organization You know I'm sure it was making probably way more money there When he came back they they really punished him because he had a physique they can really the other guys really Didn't really have physique that can can do damage he had a physique that can do damage, you know But before he left You know those in question, please things yeah, that's true. Maybe you're right. I don't remember the exacting look at that shot I mean that that's a mr. Olympia shot Tony Freeman he had a front double buy that was mr Olympia worthy for sure With that 29 inch waste, you know you had Did he give me those arms up there? I don't think so you know Chris I think I actually asked him to do it a couple times and he wouldn't do it They weren't Jimmy you had good arms Great by seven He and if you remember he had very good quads Oh crazy watch his legs came down a little you know At the end of his career now, you know, which happens to a lot of old guys, you know, but He had great front quads. He had trouble with the glutes in hand And that's why he's I used to torture him with the with the you know ketogenic diet because He was the only way he could get his glutes tight and dry Manufact I actually had him compete and show that he won when he he wasn't even eating any carbs Chris We'd be going with zero carbs You would just eat that and pro to any good Sometimes you you know he look like he was on like a thousand grams of carbs a day Sometimes you probably cover movement right all the night place Yeah, the only what we would do is we would give him carbs like the day of the show And that was enough that he didn't need a lot to fill himself up he just he walked around so round the ready, you know He was an underrated guy if he didn't tear his peck He would he could he could have been mr. one the two he's in the big guy because he had it he was tall too, you know You had a lot of good shots The year that um Dexter beat Jay that was at 08 You could have made a case for Freeman winning that will be I mean really he looked great That was best effort oh wait He had a lot of the chose and he looked really good in a couple of months and then he was going to write up there One of the shows He was he would win at least a couple shows every year Because if it wasn't like the art of the Olympia it was usually a Freeman one Yeah, it was a Freeman one And he would bamboozle the judges you can I brought him into a couple shows where he was a little off and it didn't matter because he was a great Pozor and presentation and and he just looked good standing in the lineup, you know And so these guys and you can't beat it physically like that that that that that that's what's superior genetics do for you I love you don't realize that Standing front that will once outstanding for lots of friends even as um even as back shots were Side tries up was kill it too You know when you turn the leg like to the front He knew he knew his body too and that that's something that you know You can't really explain to people you have to learn how your body works best and if you do that What you'll find is that you can bring the best at yourself and a lot of people never learn they hey I learned how my body work best It was the end of my career What can you figure out at the end? I figured out I figured out how what poses looked the best for me how to position my body properly Had a pose and I had and I couldn't even really do it the way I wanted to because I had really bad shoulder issues So I was you know it was like two I too little too late. It's like the old saying you know if if I knew now what I knew then you know how much better What I have been you know Oh, here's a good show you'll like this shot He has a shot of his side try set verse shown rod and side try so this this this this goes Sean Ron Mr. Limit this just goes to show you how good Tony side try set pose How's that shot Chris? Yeah, that's not that that's not Sean Ron's best side try so be it but but Freeman had a really good side try She hated like wrote and did it was like it's like almost like it was almost a front pose, right? Because they had both had great abs For a big guy with that much muscle to 60 you know to 65 to be able to blow down on their abs like that That's impressive Usually guys that did that thing they're belly will hang out a little bit when they did it If you remember when Sean really came on in 2012 it was Tony got second to him at the Tampa in the Dallas That's right, right good memory very good memory always there No, I know you were gonna I've been a chosen I can't remember what happens I just told you it was a favorite that's that's why I can remember right? It's a favorite one Yeah What was that 2012 he said 2012 they were filming I remember Ron and said you know they're filming a movie and I just you know with all the bodybuilders I said he would it he said no That was right, it's right that was right before he really had the right one the show tomorrow Which was the Tampa and they were filming everyone What was show except I think they were filming rolly yeah, I think you're right I think you're right I'm sorry Tony should run for like a mayor of like Atlanta or something like that now I think you'd win No, that's what I mean he's a great talker Look at this look at this shot this shot is so good is I actually had a look at I thought it was it might have been morphed It looks so good What about 2008 and the Yeah, yeah, that's that's when I said he looked the best yeah I mean and if he would if you give that if you say that's mr. Olympia does anyone say oh How dare you wins mr. Olympia now what you'd be like yeah of course it is You'd be like of course it is mr. Olympia Yeah, it's Tony We'll get him on the show. I got him. I haven't talked to him at a while so I got to get him on He's always got some new like you know something going on He's one of the years He was good he was good he was good with chose but he took a big jump maybe it was not here No, he was yeah, I had been working with it. I think for two or three years and it was just like a we were building to that and I think that was just you know That was his he just peaked that year that was his best I Mean he was still extremely good nine ten eleven. I mean he had a long career. Oh, yeah because you know it is he He was so good shrugially that he he can you know at a week show who's being Tony framing you're gonna you're gonna give him the win look at this shot Look at that crazy yeah, they did call them they did there was a reason they called them the X man I mean in an X frame you can't beat an X frame and shape, you know Put up a front line That's a good shot Yeah, you guys that had that shot very well, sir You're the wheels he's got wet then these that legs He's very comfortable the shot right yeah, I think they match up really well shots better from behind might be better from behind the Tony was because Sean gets morally morally hard from behind right I mean they both a wide Tiny waste I here's a framing from my spread on this I see but I that is best front monster, but this is I don't think I'll find at this point Yeah, yeah, yeah, he doesn't he's not as lean there, but Anyway, he was good Tony was really impressive and Like I said he his career was not what it could have been because he had that peck injury he missed five years He found a doctor who could repair the peck and it was still it still had a divot it did it wasn't terrible But the fact that he was able to come back and then and then so he had to almost play catch up after five years And he was older at that point so Had he never had the peck injury you know and he would have You know never had to take off that time and he might have been I mean he was a guy I remember Tony back in 94 and Dema I won the national's he was a guy who was always tied up in the top six Right, you know all the top the national shows he was and he wasn't even that big man He was like Michael Jackson man Yeah But it was thin yeah the structure right yeah, you could see it the structure But you didn't know if you'd ever put the muscle on because a lot of guys you know just can't grow like that When he when he won the what did he when the USA the nation's he beat me of the nation's oh my goodness And oh two Man, I felt a lot of people think I should have beat him that year because he wasn't that big that was the area just come back And after the peck tear so he was he just didn't have the muscle yet it was after he won that show that he made the big leaps and And then and and grew after that Well, he would have beat you right but standard we last Easily He wasn't that hard that you know what though I saw him the next day in the gym we were both doing photoshoot for empty and I'm like And he sold out a little bit of like yeah, I mean I'd rather have his physique than my physique Even though I was way hard with any of us I'm like I'd rather had that physique I was looking at him in the gym and I'm just like saying I wouldn't mind having that position That's a good thing to say because a lot of people would just look out of it and say but you know say I killed them now Yeah, I I hated looking at pictures of myself after the next day after the shows I always was like But you know as I was impressed him in person because I was so Cranely hard and that really shows off You have to be there in the front row to see that I think in a physique like mine Whereas the Tony Tony's the kind of guy me can be out of shape you see pictures from the show you like have this guy that lose the show you know And you could see him 24 was back and it felt like they were He just had that round V tape or you know Access McCall the x man I I'm gonna give a nickname the x man Woo Who came up with the x man came up with the x I think like man came up with the x man Unless Lonnie T. Perditt and then and blackened stole it. I don't know He used to be in those crazy ads for jack-o-ax products which are the shot the shotgun product yeah V px Right He did a great tour Yeah, he did a whole tour jack-new jack-new that he but he said them all around the country I don't know if Tony made as much money as he probably should have for that But Tony was was that front man for that product for oh for he saw a lot of shotgun product for Jack I remember that What was shot down like a pretty training it was like yeah, yeah, pre workout like you know Did you by the way did you see the jack-o-ax interview that I didn't I don't think you did You got to watch it. I told you how he he he was telling me how he made 1.2 billion dollars last year 1.2 billion billion with a big yeah with a big That way I was like didn't like to where I was in Florida How much they were in the same amount of money was in the same amount of money, but you know He he's I thought he was gonna they were like an industrial park I thought he was keeping it you know as an industrial park he was gonna like rent it out. I thought it was like an investment No, no, no, no, no, he's building this three big buildings. He's connecting them and like making some crazy He's gonna have the fastest Drink line in the world They can crank out stuff like 4,000 bottles of minerals so I should settle the world and say in amount Sellers the bank problem. Dang it was got From what he told me bang he has an exclusive deal with anhyse approach which is Pepsi you know to distribute It's a crazy amount of money But then he has his own line of the red line still that he exclusively To ship it's himself. He said because the problem with the anhyse approach is that they have very wide distribution Or they're everywhere basically But they're slow so like he likes to he comes out with a new drink flavor every like you know every four weeks And they just can't keep up with that because it takes them a while across this everything and get it into the system So he has his own red line where he can pop out new flavors because he's always making new flavors And then he could insert them directly into his own distribution You know Red line product today the same as it was maybe 10 years ago or day now the rich this is the story your original red line had a fedra I think it or by the now when they banned the fedra He had all these backup stuff the DMM and all the stuff that is banned now was still legal He had a crazy crate he had so many things in red line already like you know You know after your him bay and you had all these things that were super freak like you know Stimulence that when they pull the fedra it didn't really affect the potency of his drink so G and C said was buying Like a million a month from them or something like that in these drinks It was crazy and They couldn't they couldn't they couldn't buy enough from them that kind of thing because everyone lost their a fedra drinks And there was no a fedra people had nothing to use he was the only game in town He said for for good year or two So he really made a lot. I think that's where he made most of his money and that was and he was reinvesting it back into the business Basically building better drink lines because he always did a drink in his bars in house which was smart Now he's got like a facility and I think Atlanta and one out west He's got like three and they's building that new one in Florida He said with these drink you know with these drink companies do Chris is that they a lot of times they They'll make they'll make the bottles in one place and they got a ship A million bottles to a to the bottling plant where they actually bottle of stuff He and Florida is building in this these three humongous buildings that he bought he's gonna make his own bottles Which are gonna save them fortune and then he's gonna bottle it right there So there's no there's no transportation of them so that's that's said you know if you say he said a one penny per bottle He's a that's a huge huge Savings Matter fact he said he got he you know he's been in litigation with red line Every excuse me with red bowl which who we be actually and With the monster he's still fighting them he won't give up He said he will he's the only person who has not succumbed to the monster Matter fact he told the great story about the guy from red bowl called them up And they kind of became friends during the lawsuit he's like he goes how much of jack how much have you spent on this lawsuit already? He's well jacks take how much of you spending goes with 750,000 because this is ridiculous jacks like I spent the same amount on my first He's a well maybe we could so then they went to arbitration And jack really one because what happened was they were red red bowl was saying this guy is you know in order to say Someone's infringing upon you you have to show that there you know that there are not go off in that there Costing you business but jack was actually selling red line for more than red bowl So if you're selling a pride for more and you're and you're and you're making money then You're not trying to undercut the other guy so the judge is like Mr. O'oc is not is not doing anything wrong So jack agreed to change it He wanted it yet at white cap on his bottle some kind of color that look like Red bowl or something like that. I don't even know what it was he had to change the cap color something that that was that that was what his punishment was at the end of that He's always had like the best colors of that Yeah, yeah He's it he's it he's it he's it he's a genius he really is he's a man sciences genius Mr. He He was a science teacher for many years, you know in school so he's not a dummy, you know He's he actually had a good science background most people hold on supplement companies, you know Don't have that kind of a a background in education so he was an educator for years And you just love that you know he talked about how he lived in a store and in the story and in Wherever one piece of That's your pepper pine train because he his wife X wife worked at the gym, right? To go down I used to train at goals in pepper times and I went by his store when he used to live in that's funny You sound so I'm in the store used to the store was unbelievable. Oh, I was all color coordinated He had enormous amount of inventory and I was like what type of stores this? I thought it was like a GSC He had his soul his products right so he said it read yeah Good and you know and here he is now my joke again with you didn't hear he's paying more than seven hundred fifty bucks in time Yeah, yeah, I'm sure he's paying 800 bucks So he He said that when he would order metrics He would order so much of it that he couldn't fit it in the store So he literally had a cell what was on the sidewalk in order for him to be able to And others as soon as he got his order and he added all his customers had a comment and buy their stuff for the month because the The boys he would be able to get get it all in the store that's how much he would order So people metrics couldn't believe it His it's he's been around you know Some of them in owners come and go Yeah, well, they have unproducted and it's you know up and then dead and that's it Yeah, he's had continuous line. What's the name of his brand VPS? He's been around for 30 years yeah, well, he did the original the pro hormones with the with the syringe you remember The computer acts yeah, well, they all they all had a syringe, but you know it's it was what he his idea for was smart because you know if you ever see You know if you give your your young kid like Tylenol comes that little syringe you put it in the top of the bottle You kind of measure it out so you can give them the right amount you squirt in the mouth He did the same thing but he knew that that little that little syringy draw out would would get in people's minds They would think steroid. Oh steroids. Oh, it's supposed to be good stuff right comes in just a wrench I'm gonna ask So we are marketing yeah black room probably Probably I should have come up with that nice house At that time he had the bottle with the shrink wrap around the bottle and the little syringy was on them Yeah, I'll tell you I'll say one thing Jack gave me a lot of compliments like you know for being you know for all those Consumians every day that he he's a very humble guy, you know for and and look the guy is very very wealthy now And he's he's very humble You know the truth to see he would if he was making zero money We continue doing what he does because he really does love it a lot of guys do it because they're business But he just likes what he does I even asked her I said you could sell the company because that I don't want to sell anything I said what if someone came but you know if they offered you a ridiculous amount of money He goes I they already did he goes and I didn't sell to the Anheisen bush, you know, so I said alright well you must enjoy what you're doing because I do you enjoy and love's going to that office every day I too I Said now I remember how I know about the warehouses because I was reading real estate transactions It was big news It was huge news and I said you like that you said you know I go back to where every swam blah blah he paid an enormous enormous amount of money Wait, it's not like 3,5,7 it was like yeah ridiculous for a targeted money yeah I don't think he got it. Does he sell that much product? 1.2 billion Chris last year I think the warehouse one was 17 million the other was 10 or something yeah, and that's chum change fan If he's making them I'm a funny right and he's the only owner of the company he owns it himself No, that's a success story but that just goes to show you if you're smart An you crazy passion about what you do and you take this you know he I would have never Spranked that with all the lawsuits he's got to deal with because you don't want to think Imagine fighting monster and red bull I mean they got big time attorneys, you know They got deeper pockets, but he he wouldn't he doesn't he doesn't he doesn't settle fight that he doesn't care He used to have what bar there was a super well a really good selling bar that he had Wait oh that zero impact bar was delicious Amazing taste I Eight went off of his assembly line I went there to do an interview when Ramana was working there and I literally it looked at Gautuchiro I took off the he took it off the assembly line and handed it to me it was hot still It was amazing and no kid. I know no net carbs in it Yeah, how what would you I don't know he did it I think his problem I think one of the problems was because it was so it was so healthy it was hard to keep the thing from going like it had a A shelf life or was not that long because it was it was too healthy the bar Yes, like you yeah, you did off the assembly line yeah God too many bugs yeah You gotta get a spray you gotta spray I say pretty time of spray Hey, they spray for bugs you don't know that with the bars It's black and was telling you that once what did they spray Bugs they get a kill with bugs. I said you can't put a spray. Yeah, they're certain stuff they can spray you got a spray in the bars Remember that mass bar that blackpin had that like it was like a big touchy roll Leigh any was like used to endorse it It's like this big It's you Mass field that's what it's called mass deal bar You couldn't you couldn't eat the whole bar it was impot I tried and I can eat a lot of food You couldn't do it because you teeth would fall out it was so hard to chew the thing Right it was like eating a huge touchy roll and I believe Lee Hayney ate those bars because you know I used to believe everything you see those ads man Mass fuel bar you want to get big you got to eat this bar and I'm like I got to eat the bar I got to get this mass fuel I will say the diet field bars were amazing though. You remember those And the other thing you would learn right right the diet field bars with terrific Yeah, the diet field bronchers to look I don't know why they'd stop making those bars that that I don't know what what is formula was Those, but they were really good sugar lower carbs high protein Was it was this sugar in them a little bit a little very little yes The diet field were good even the diet field product was good. Remember that the shakes was really good the chocolate And then I was so good with the chocolate right You could make it into a paste Just add water It was like phenomenal. I was supposed to get a piece of the royalty on every It's probably still up this day. I've never got the the paperwork It got lost the mail You were to make a lot of money on the wealthy on that list I mean only 2.5% or Exile on a dollar's month whatever was higher You really and what happened you just didn't want to sign the contract again contract is never gave me never gave me the reports Which was So he actually owes you that money was supposed to get to an a percent of all diet field sales tell or or certain amount of money whatever was higher what I would ask You know what at the sale That's only three bars Chris What happens when you want to get an answer from Steve? Did you see Kai's gloats? Look Lee I'll donate half the proceeds to your To your go find me campaign if you can collect them I 2.5% the black man owes me a bull die of fuel sales This subject What did you have to try to You have to try to speak this team about that Oh everything Steve you know You owe money to Victor he's he's called me up and he said the check has him said Did you see Kai's gloats Let me show you that this Kai and let me show this pair of an out picture Steve you got to pay Victor look at what the deal is glued to that little little Unbinable killer look at the glue. It's look at the strength look at the Deshia Haitian take the eyepiece look That's his notorious like change something Really You know So yeah, I don't know what to announce NASA did Steve black whenever oh you any money No I don't do business with Jewish businessman Because I know that they did not pay you NASA but he paid other people yes, but I stuck with the I said but NASA you you you you work for Joe weater Yes, but he was not really Jewish. He was Jewish but he was not Jewish What does that mean NASA Means he paid me I think he liked the fact that I spoke eight languages He I got if I would speak to him and and German he would give me a it would give me an extra hundred dollars on my paycheck What why is that NASA? I do not know I do I don't know Joe loved NASA Did Long time now NASA he did NASA definitely got Did well with the leader We don't like the freaky yeah, he knew NASA's sole product to he was a freak you know Yeah, I mean I mean look what it took him to get Ronnie I mean remember Ronnie was on the contract with metrics and then Joe he didn't want to leave because Ronnie was so loyal to Tick Scott Colleen and weater had a like throw a lot of money at him I think to get him believe Sure and Ronnie didn't know the politics Ryan didn't realize that if you work for weater You had a very good chance of winning the Olympia You know I think Ronnie signed the the contract like at the Olympia or something that at the 90th Olympia Right before preaching I think he signed them, yeah, he's got it for sign I don't because I think that I don't know if they were trying to get Chad Contract to like Ronnie was trying to get like his whole family a contract like at the same time Well, me I got to get my Vicki had to get a contract and it's mother had to get a contract Yes, right No, she did no it's I know someone who negotiate that contract from You know who negotiate that contract from or was it involved in that contract? Let me see if I'm blocking his name I don't know why and I talked them all the time He's the guy with who does the Oh The Bulgarian training what the hell's this name you know Emerald Delzic It's a very good friend with Joe weater a lot of good friends Joe said you got to get Ronnie for me and so the Emerc negotiate that and that's when Ronnie kept telling Emerc He's like I got to get Vicki contract too and he's a Emerc would go back the weater You got to give Vicki he didn't even know who Vicki was Joe, of course, she won the international or something like that and she's the top of FEMA money But oh, wait, she You got to give Vicki a contract all right. We'll give Vicki a contract. Well, you got that Chad needs a contract and and and Tim needs a contract Everyone needs to everyone that Ronnie was involved with you to the contract I think we did gave old contracts, don't wait just to get Ronnie to sign on All right, we got a wrap up. It's too We rock we're off on a tangent here, but I think To take home message With the whole show is If you guys want to see Lee pre-spec on stage go donate to his go fund me can't stop breaking his balls No, you know, I would love I would love to see as a fan of this where I would love to see Lee back on stage I don't know if it's possible even with the surgery that they're they're saying that he needs for his net You know to release the nerve that's being pinched off at his neck But I wouldn't you love to see him back on stage again? Um, not really because no You know, it's always Comebacks aren't really that good for people Yeah, because we always You know, we we we expect then we think like yeah, you can come back and come back and then you see And whoever that may be and you say oh, yeah, they're not really like they used to be right That's sure You know previous self Never know Oh, I'd like to see him with your pain Yeah, I don't know how much pain he said I just think he can't win in trains. He can't feel the muscle Because it's not activating properly because you know, he's good that love the nerve If need be It's a scary shirt look anything going there around you spine, you know, and they have to like play around with those nerves, you know that Scary look what happened to Ronnie The thing that sucks is that lead it happened in a car accident it even happened, you know from the gym All right guys Let's wrap this thing up until next week guys remember with heavy muscle radio Hurts good night everyone

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Votes, there's 30-year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Friday September 4th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Hey, say in life, it's not about the destination, it's about the journey, but for Terrence Ruff in the next four months are about a little bit of both. For all of you this week, Terrence went on the record to let his fans know that he started prepped for this year's Olympia where he figures to be right there in the hunt for a top 10 finish. One of the things that will be noticeably different for Terrence over the next few months will be the way he pays attention to his weight, because for the first time in his career he'll be bumping up against the new weight limit for classic physique. But on the flip side, a bigger better version of Terrence should place well on the Olympia stage, especially when you consider that we won't have guys like Keon Pearson, George Peterson and stand along with this year. So Ruff Diesel is at the top of his game, he might be a lock to secure a top three finish. One of the other big names starting their Olympia prepped this week is the raining and defending two time Olympia champ, Sheneek Rand. He also has a lot riding on this year's competition. For Sheneek, there are two factors that play here. One, she's the defending champion, and that means she has a gigantic target on her back, which isn't anything new, but as they say, heavy in the head that wears the crown. And after two straight years of dominance, no one but her, knows how heavy that load really is. The second is that this year, there's an element of history on the line, because securing another win would put her one-rung behind Juliana Melancharrney, as the all-time winning establishment in the division. If there's anything that 2020's taught us, it's that nothing in this crazy world is certain. So if she wants to avoid the 2020 curse that already managed to claim so many victims, now would be the time to put the pedal to the floor. We also have a little bit of Olympia news straight from the IFBV Pro League, who announced this week that they had some form of a plan in place to help international athletes move past the various travel restrictions that are still in place across the globe to compete in this year's contest. If you've watched this show at all over the last few months, you've seen probably a dozen or so stories about athletes who couldn't make one of their target dates because of travel cancellations. So this could be a game changer for the William Bonax and Hottie Schuppens of the world who might have otherwise had trouble getting into the country. That being said, so much can change between now and November. I don't think anything is written in stone yet, but at least for now there is some blimmer of hope. So I guess we'll all just have to wait and see how this whole thing plays out. For the most part, I think people tend to get more patient and disciplined with age and patients and discipline are two things that you need in states when it comes to body buildings. Just ask for what obby odd. A few days ago, big host released a new update from his latest venture into the 2020 season where he showed off a shredded 269 pound fresh out of bed. Look, that was better than anything we've seen from him in a while. At least from a distance foe, it looks like he's definitely healthy and back to training like his old self again, which is great news if you're a long time foe at a fan and as long as he could stay locked into this groove, I wouldn't rule the possibility of seeing him on stage sometime between now and the end of the year. Stay tuned. And that does it. If you had another edition of Muscle in the morning, on day polumbal reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Wake up sleepy heads, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning. At this point in the season last year, there weren't too many people talking about Sidney Gillin as a potential figure-learn beer winner. And for reasons that I can't quite seem to understand, it kind of feels like that, again. And though it seems like it's been part of our strategy to keep a low profile since her weekend at the Arnold back in March, over the last few weeks we finally started to see a few signs of life from the figure divisions raining Olivia champion. From the few breadcrumbs that we've seen Gillin drop, it seems like she's right on track to come back and defend her title again. But give it how much of a grind these last 18 months have been. You have to wonder if she's got enough juice left in the tank to show up and deliver another knockout performance. When you get up to the elite level and pretty much anything in life, whether it be sports, business or bodybuilding, irrational confidence can be one of the things that gives someone the extra little push they need to separate themselves from the pack. And as far as I can tell, men's physique superstar Ryan Terry doesn't seem to be lacking much in the confidence department these days. Over the weekend, the Terry camp released a new update 10 weeks out from their latest Olympia 4A will be looking to climb a giant four-time defending champion size mountain that goes by the name Jeremy Bwayne Dia. Truth be told Terry is probably one of only two or three guys who actually has a legitimate shot of knocking off the champ this year if he's still not back to 100%. So it becomes out firing at all cylinders. You've got to think that he's at least got a puncher's chance of scoring the victory. I used to think that the only cool things to come out of Sweden were Vikings. Ikea an absolute vodka, which is the ultimate party starter just for the record. But after the year she's had so far, I think it's probably time to add bikini star in the making, free to pulse into that list. After ripping off five straight top three finishes already this season, the Swedish bomb shell has turned into another intriguing storyline in a division that hasn't had any shortage of drama so far this year. Since she entered the pro league three years ago, we've seen Palson slowly start to come into her own as a top tier athlete. But now that she's starting to demand some of the spotlight, it'll be fun to see what it takes to step up to the next level and develop into the bikini divisions next to lead talent. We are near so far in the classic physique division. With a ton of talented athletes coming out of the woodwork, making the name for themselves at some of these shows, including second year standout, Kenneth Owens. After two straight top eight performances, to start the year at the Arnold Classic and New York pro, the former Junior USA star, seems like he might be getting ready to fire up the engines again. Over the weekend, the Owens can't release a new clip from a recent leg session that gave his fans a chance to catch the sophomore sensation in action. When he's got it all working, Owens has one of those round flowing physiques that feels like it's tailor made for this division. With a few more improvements, this kid feels like someone who has the potential to develop into something dangerous over the next few years. If you haven't seen the New Jurassic World movie yet, you're missing out on one of the most badass man-made dinosaurs of all time. But even the boys out there in Jurassic World would have a hard time trying to grow something in the lab that was his badassest seven-time Olympia champ, Phil Heath. Last week, we saw a King Phil release another short teaser in his quest to make history, which some people think is a foregun conclusion at this point. Even with the big rommies of the world making all sorts of waves, it's still hard to imagine a scenario where anyone comes in who's good enough to knock off Phil at this stage of his career. And borrowing someone coming completely out of left field, I think it all likely would. We'll find ourselves talking about how much longer he wants to keep this run up after number eight is officially in the record books. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

We are the coming stage of the beat. All right. Locked. Here is quite an Olympian. My girlfriend, Christina Voynitz. I'm very proud. Be a accomplishments that's here. Turning pro and qualifying. So how is it? I owe it all to you. All right, we're here with Bethany Wagner and Bethany Wagner. Bethany Wagner. They took the hyphenated off, but I'm sure. Is it okay with just the systeremen? You okay? Yeah, that's I'm competing this weekend. I did the hyphen for two shows and now I'm trying to switch over. Other judges going to know, like I think your name carries a little bit more weight. You are six. Maybe they'll start, you know, they'll call him Guy Wagner. So Guy, tell me how you're feeling. All right, so we finally caught up with Guy. He's done fooling around with PJ. I don't know where they went, but they disappeared for a while. So yeah, anyhow. And that's with your wife told me no cheap meals. No, if I had a cheap meal, it was pretty much a sushi. That's not a micro-vertory cheap meal. No, I actually went to Indian Alperger. That was one of the first things I did when I got here. And I had a chocolate shake and fries and a double cheeseburger. You want to hit that up a little bit later or what? Last time I think about Fried Cheap Mills gives things and I paid. All right, I'm here with tricky Jackson. What up? No, I got to invite to the pro-master worlds in Miami come December to 10th. I'm super stoked about that because I'm going to be on stage with some of the greatest bodybuilders, you know, of the last two or three decades. So that's really cool. And on top of that, they're giving out a nice chuck of money for the best pose award. Yes. So you know, I'm going to be working for that. Lock the LED tonight. Lock if you've ever been a LED to begin with. Lock the LED tonight. Lock the LED channel, man. How nice the same you can be. It would give this is day number two, video number two. But for all you said, didn't see video number one, which is not a you have yet because it hasn't been edited and put up. We're going to do a double release. One or two, we're going to be on the same base and you get bonus for free. Or just finish it up by our lunch. As you can see, you can take those with a little fries with cheeseburger or some onions, plain, big cookie, and the way they're sort of, but the producer is now getting what is considered a quality bodybuilder lunch. I think I read some of the points about if I ate better back or nutrients, my condition would be better. I don't think I'd buy that. But people want more using double cheeseburger to eat out the sauce. I don't know the sauce. So, gain a little weight, huh? It looks like you did it. It's so hard on it. You got to get a pull it in. I got a little bit of water yourself. I actually had this, I had to drop a little water. I got like a delayed reaction. I was like 250, 700. Well yeah, I got to close my hands. Feel better now. I think I'm about 250 now. So I have more comfortable. I didn't go up. I didn't want to do that whole rebound thing. I don't know what it was. I didn't even work out for like a week. I knew they did. I think it was still working out and then adding food that second week and then it was killing me. So you got to go back for the pasta. Yeah, I mean, I ate well. I just ate one. Did you take it? Did you take it? Did you take it? He was going to pass me a try, but that's too cool for me. But not at the season's done. You know me? I know. I know what to find though. So, that's cool, but I'm going to look at the clothes. I don't want to get anything now. It's too busy, but I should have changed her pretty decent. I got in at that, the waist taken it, which is nice. I don't want to go ahead of Barry so they fit pretty good. Lock the lady tonight. Lock if you've ever been a lady to begin with. Lock the lady tonight. Alright, so actually break this down so we don't get lost. I'm going to grab a seat, sign up and go hold up the sofa and set it up. I think George gets arrested for public opinion public. So we're not at that's going to happen, but we may get lost for you. So what would anybody else do on Saturday night? May we end the year? It's when they weather is fighting. We're going to walk the strip, get some food, and see what happens. We saw some storm trip for it's day. They're real. They are real. Do you know what the Mr. Olympia competition is? Do you know what the biggest bodybuilding contest in the world for professional bodybuilding? So make it. Come on, give me a can, huh? Use for a while, I'll go ahead and show. Come on. Come on. Win Vegas and food and alcohol and laziness. You just seen the pool today, it was outrageous. Besides the two girls we were with, we were in the car board. This is the smile we've been troubled with. Like 99% of everyday is spending the same clothes because when you're at the gym you're trading clients. You don't have to wear a suit or anything like that, it's comfortable. So pretty much every time I go on my own stores, I end up buying something. And you end up with a closet full of clothes and you don't know what to wear and it's basically all the same crap. Alright, so if you guys pay attention to what my customer is. Everything you like is Jordan. You can probably write a black guarantee. Write a black guarantee. Did she say that? I don't know that. I don't know why I went to Louisville and I think I'd get stuck with the color. Red and black and white. I mean, it's killing. Like even the t-shirts. If they don't have any stretch to them and they're like regular cotton, I don't buy regular cotton t-shirts. They've got to have stretch or it's got a lay on you. Because maybe just wearing a stupid t-shirt that doesn't fit right. Especially when you start being built a certain way, it's starting to vary. You just want stuff a lay on you. And that's trying to show off putting a super tight t-shirt on. You know, a medium on when you really should be wearing a large or something. Like just to make them so much. They're rather in hang and be flowing. That way you don't look at it. Like, well, I could do this is for educational purposes. I'm okay. So I think Mike just told you that he wears like a size 13 shoe. And he's Italian. He goes to England. It is true. My buddy's with had some water two states. And he's so funny when he had a bigger tank. How much bigger they actually get. They do really size the tank or the environment. So it's kind of crazy to see like a trigger fish. That's like four times the size I've seen. Like my buddies are pouring on the man they got like. They got like, you got a stingray and stuff on. Not float about it. He's swimming. You're gonna be sweating. You're gonna be bad. But it's pretty cool. Lock the LED tonight. Lock the LED to begin with. Lock the LED to begin with. Look, guys, guys. Thanks for your help. Victory Gallup. Well, we're finishing up here. We just got to the Victory Gallup. We're gonna head inside and see what's going on. Maybe we have a couple drinks and eats. And then I think the destination for later tonight is pure. We're at Seasers. This is a maximum party or something going on. One of my buddies from home Chris is actually, I think I got a host which only works over there. So we got to hook up over there and get me head and over there. Finishing out tonight. Not too late because we got the cool party tomorrow. And then we'll check in later after that hit the strip. Lock the LED to begin with. Two tonight. Lock the LED to begin with. Lock the LED to begin with. Lock the LED to begin with. All right, it's day four. We're here in Maraz, at Fielty Burger. We're gonna head some food. And I'm gonna head over to Trudger. We're gonna head some dessert time. I kind of have a sweet tooth. But before this we had a scoby beef burger. So I think a little big signers. Probably beef is amazing. Never had it. So the burger is the great. These are fried Oreos with vanilla ice cream. Doesn't look like a fan, no powdered sugar. I like it's probably going to go down pretty quick. It's pretty easy. So let's see what tastes like. Get a little ice cream. We're talking to each other. We're talking to each other. Considering that all of their shows have acrobatics in it, that it's what they're known for. This was very crazy. This guy was performing on basically what is. We call it the still rings in the Olympics. And he had a cage or kind of a cube that he balanced on his feet. And moved it all around. He was performing strength. You know, acts. And also when he was swinging around the stage, it was couldn't believe that he could actually hold this thing. So this toes and still perform the things that he was doing. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a lady tonight. Locked to be a gentleman. How nice the same you can be.

It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm day polonvo and today is Friday, July 27, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I'm definitely not one of those people who thinks it's cool to demonize pitfalls, but you can't deny the fact that there is something scary about seeing one of those bad boys show their teeth when they get angry. Right now I think it's pretty safe to say that classic physique all-star George Peterson is out there showing his teeth to the rest of the division. After spending most of his off-season laying low, Peterson has really started to up his game over the last few weeks, especially back on Tuesday when we saw his newest update. As far as I can tell, GP3 is dialed in and ready to go for his big showdown on the Olympia stage that set to go down two months from now. And I guess when you've got a bite as strong as this, you don't have to do a whole lot of barking to deliver the message. I'm one of those people who gets fired up whenever I get a chance to see or do something new. Because I think that's the stuff that really makes life exciting. And I'm pretty sure my old buddy, James Hollingshead falls into that same camp too. Few days after making an awesome pro-day view out at the Spain big man weekend championships that UK powerhouse sure doesn't seem like he's wasting any time getting right back into the swing of things. This week we saw the Hollingshead camp release a short clip from a new arm training session as he tries to take full advantage of that previous post show rebound window. Anyone who's followed his journey knows that the progress that this guy has made over the last year or so has been nothing short of awesome. And when you've got all that working like this, I don't see any reason why you don't want to slow things down or let off the gas. I know there are 10 million opinions out there about what exactly constitutes staying in shape during your off season. But if you ask me, I think 212 big man John Jewett seems like he's got the right idea. Those two months after making a strong 7th place debut at the New York pro the former USA champ looks like he's done a nice job of keeping with in striking distance. According to reports, Jewett is still sitting somewhere right around the 240 mark, which is probably dead on for a guy with his size and structure and where he should be at this point in the season. He's still having a herd as to whether or not he's officially closing up shop for the year. But I think he's a guy who could fare pretty well. If he hit one of those small post Olympia shows that we've got coming up in the fourth quarter of the calendar year. But only time will tell where Jewett lands next. The quote the great late Rodney Dangerfield, I don't get no respect and I bet a good chunk of change that raining in defending Bikini Olympia champ and Jelika Tashara is probably feeling a little disrespected right about now, despite the fact that the top rank athlete in the division was electric to start the season. We really haven't heard much chatter on the wire from people giving her the love she deserves as the defending champion. To her credit, all she's done from day one of Role Olympia prepped is show up and put in the work, which is exactly what you'd expect someone in her position to do now that everyone's gunning for her throne. But maybe now that there isn't as much attention on her heading down this home stretch, we'll all get the best version of Angelika Tashara that we've ever seen once the curtain finally drops. I think sometimes it's almost better to be one of those fly under the radar type of guys because it means you can show up every day and do what you do without a million people trying to question and comment on your decisions. And so far this summer, two 12 standout, Calab Blanchard definitely fits the description of an under the radar type of guy. A few weeks removed from putting together the best look of his career, but that second place looked he brought to the Chicago pro the third year pro is still out there plugging away as quiet as ever. At least from the people I've spoken with, Blanchard was one of the few athletes who really caught everyone by surprise with what he did there in the windy city. And he seems like the perfect candidate to slip into a show, like the Phoenix Europe a pro later this year where he could be really dangerous if he shows up spot on. And that does it to get another edition of the Muxhorn the Morning. I'm Dave Holumbo reminding you that the always be sure to your passions and they should follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Happy Independence Day from everyone here at Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday, July 4th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Here we go again with another edition of our Axe Muscles World Famous Recap Wednesday, where we kick off today's program with the only show in town last weekend. This San Jose Pro, in the men's physique division, Super rookie extraordinaire, Kyron Holden, came in and delivered a good old fashioned gut punch to the strong lineup on the way to earning the first of many wins to come in his pro career. Second year pro Anthony Woods came out swinging, but was still forced to settle for a very respectable second place. And rounding out the top three with another solid effort was Olympian Long Wu. And the women's physique division, Antoinette Downey, brooding her best look ever, and crews to an unprecedented win. The run-rout position went to Brazilian import, Evaline Roca, and finishing third was North D'Obranena, who I watch out for this weekend and Vancouver. This weekend at UFC 226, we're about to see two of the greatest heavyweight of all time go at it. When they finally get a chance to step inside the octagon, but a few months from now, all eyes in the bodybuilding world will be glued to the Olympia stage. When Amad Ashkenoni tries to become the man, who managed to step in and stop defending champ, Flex Lewis's date with Destiny. True to form Ashkenoni's been hold up at his home base in oxygen gym. He's been trying to soak up enough of that crew technology to earn himself a place in bodybuilding history. In Rollana City, Ashkenoni is one of probably only two or three guys who even has an outside shot of knocking Flex off the mountain this year. But as my UFC fans know out there already, well it takes us one good punch to change a fight. Steamed Beach Body Season is in full effect. I know a lot of guys out there are probably practicing old school curls for the girls, work out plans every Saturday morning. And if you're one of those guys, it might not be a bad idea to check in and get a few pro tips from rookie classic physics sensation, Steve Lourius. Last weekend, Lourius released a short clip from one of the more recent arm training sessions where we catch the defending Pittsburgh pro champ getting in some quality improvement work. The contest season moves a hundred miles per hour and sometimes it's easy to forget just how good this guy was against one of the stronger lineups we've seen all season. But if he comes back with a few new pounds of quality muscle, the next time around this guy has the potential to do some serious damage and really establish himself as one of the next great talents in the division. I had a conversation earlier this week where someone told me that they thought this year's classic physical Olympia would be the best that we've seen across any division in more than a decade. And if I were a betting man, I think I'd be willing to lay down a few dollars that George Peterson finds a way to make himself a major part of that equation. The second year superstars coming off a rookie season that saw a miss establish themselves as one of the premier talents in the division. And my people close to the source tell me that as of today he's on pace to come in and blow last years third place Olympia look out of the water. For the most part it's been a relatively quiet year for the Peterson camp, but now they're only a little more than two months away from the big dance. We're going to start to see these guys kicking things up into super high gear. When I look back now to when I was 23 years old, I think there's probably like a 99% chance that I didn't have enough common sense to know my ass for my elbows. But thankfully for him, Cody Montgomery doesn't seem like he's having that problem. This week someone inside Team Montgomery leaked a clip from a chest training video that shows the 23 year old star cranking out a few sets of dumbbell presses during his morning workout. By all accounts the CEO of Team Montgomery is in a great place both mentally and physically right now. When you look at the success he's had so far this season is it's hard to see why. At this point we still have yet to hear directly from Cody about whether or not he has another show date circled on the calendar. But if you can slide in under the radar hit one of those smaller events later in the season he has as good a chance as anyone to come away with a victory. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day polonbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro. So it's 30-year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Day of Columbus here with an RX muscle rant. Today's topic, the glycemic index. What is the glycemic index? Well it's an arbitrary, I'm not really arbitrary, I call it arbitrary because it varies a lot. It's a rating system of how much insulin, or how fast a mouth-adventulin will be released in response to a food you eat. Now they rate at 100 white bread or simple sugars, like table sugar, or sucrose, meaning that you get the highest insulin output by taking these foods. That means they digest and get absorbed into the bloodstream. The absolute quickest and the cost of that, they cause the most insulin release. Remember, what is insulin's job? The pancreas releases insulin from the beta cells and responds to elevating blood sugars. So blood sugar rises very fast because you're eating a piece of candy or something that's pure sugar. Your body pumps out the most insulin. Now sometimes because blood sugar rises too fast, your body might overrelease insulin. It's not necessarily a good thing because it can cause a rebound, high-poglicing. That's why sometimes if you're remembering your kidney, you can't eat your old juice stuff right after you have it. You're running around like a maniac and then it'll suddenly get tired. You know, and fall asleep, usually it was in class from the beta, but it's after lunch. So that's a distinct possibility. Also, you have too much insulin. You can obviously store extra calories as fat, which we don't want. So typically, when we're trying to limit our body's ability to destroy body fat, we want to eat lower glycemic carbs. That's why usually in the off-season scenario, I give people lower glycemic carbs so they don't overrelease insulin. Whereas pre-contest if I'm giving them small, tiny amounts of carbs, they're not really worried about overrelease insulin because more than likely they're not going to number one. And I know they're not going to store anything as fat because of the fact that the carbs quantities are small. When you're eating huge quantities of carbs, much more likely that you can store things as fat. But the question really is, when you compare a white potato to a sweet potato, we know the sweet potato has a lower glycemic index because it's got more fiber in it and just by nature it is. Whereas the white potato tends to have the higher glycemic index is there really a difference quantitatively in eating both of these foods. Now if you look at the glycemic index chart, this is why I call it arbitrary because it varies. Remember, all foods have variability because depending on where they're grown and what strain of variety they are, they have different amounts of fiber and slower or faster digesting carbohydrates in them. So not all potatoes are really cool and not all sweet potatoes are equal. But by and far, if you look at the glycemic index of a sweet potato, before you cook and it's like about a 40, 45 which is pretty low on the glycemic index. That's a low glycemic chart. After you cook it it breaks down some of the sugars in it and it tends to bring it glycemic index to up to about 50, 50, 50 sometimes. Whereas a sweet potato kind of starts it like a 65 already on the glycemic chart. And then if you cook it or even instantize it, you know, like you could get mashed potatoes, you know, you know, you even if you make a playing without any butter or milk, they're rapidly, they kind of almost pre-digesting as they made it to a powder. So you don't really have to digest these. You remember the quicker something digest and get into your bloodstream faster and higher glycemic index. So if you look at that, a white potato can go almost up to 80 on the glycemic chart. So it is a faster car but the question is, if you know, if you're designed to die and I give someone say six ounces of sweet potato versus six ounces of white potato, okay, is it going to matter? How about 10 ounces? Let's do 10 ounces of white potato, which is about 45 grams of carbs and 10 ounces of sweet potato, which is a little higher in carbs. It could be around 60 almost, you know, grams of carbs. So we're talking more carbs. Now, if you equate ounces to ounces and you know, one has more carbs than the other. Of course they're not equal. But if you bring them into equality with each other, meaning you take in a little less sweet potato. So you do 10 ounces of potatoes and or, okay, you do about like eight or nine ounces of sweet potato. So we have the carbonypid equal. I didn't do the math on it. So I don't know if that's the. But whatever you have to do to get the carbohydrate content equal, are they quantitatively different in terms of how your body will process them and whether you will lose or gain body fat. And I say the answer is it doesn't matter. I think when you're in a dieted state and you're giving your body a limited amount of resources, meaning that you've, whether you or your coach has figured out, okay, this person needs this many grams of carbs a day. I'm giving them less than that. Okay, whether you get it from a sweet potato or a regular potato, I don't think it really matters. Now, the people who are, if it doesn't, you know, fit your macros would say, well, then you could have a sweet, you could have a pop tart, too. It doesn't matter. Now, I think if you're eating simple sugars, you can get, you can, absolutely, first of all the nutrition, nutritional value, it is not the same. But if you eat simple sugars, you can get a really huge rush of insulin. And I think that's a month's construit things up. But once again, I don't want to get into that whole debate. If, if, if you could eat a pop tart and that's equal to potato, I'm talking about higher glycemic carbs like a sweet potato or like a white potato versus a sweet potato. Does it matter? I say no in a, in a, in a dieting situation, if you're on a limited amount of carbs and you're really, you know, counting, you know, exactly what you're putting into your body and figuring it out, I don't think it really makes a big difference. I actually sometimes like to get people white rice when toward the end of a diet when I'm trying to, you know, if they're getting too flat and I want to, I want to fill them up because what it does is it gets absorbed very quickly. And I can see a change rapidly in their body. So if they said in the past, in the morning, and they're really flat, then I can go back, I can give them a cup of, you know, rice two or three times at the next two or three meals, you know, a cup of rice per meal. And then by the evening, I can see if they filled up. Now, if I use a, a slower glycemic carb like brown rice and they, you know, brown rice because it has high fiber content, you're not really absorbing all the carbs and sometimes it's a slower absorption process. I might not see by two or three hours later if they've actually made it, you know, a difference in my take told the next day before I see that. So I use faster carbs, but I'm not giving large amounts of giving small amounts. Off season, I've noticed though, if I use too many fast acting carbohydrates, simple sugars or, you know, even, you know, white breads or bagels or, you know, white rice, people can get fat easy. Some people who are really sensitive and who overrelease insulin because they're overreleasing insulin and they're eating in the abundance of nutrients. So there was the eating more than their maintenance because we're trying to grow. They will store some of those carbs as fat more, more easily. So in that situation, I would rather go with the sweet potato, I would rather go with the brown rice, I'd rather go with the oatmeal that has lower glycemic carbs, whereas pre-content is because you're not eating as much and you're not overeating what your maintenance level is, you can get away, I think, with eating the faster carbs and not have a problem. Now also, I don't really give carbs usually every day in my diets to people unless they have a super, super fast metabolism. So that's, so usually their glycogen stores are really depleted when I'm working or dieting people down. So those carbs go right into glycogen stores or a regular glycogenation of the liver or the muscles. And so you don't really notice it. Now if your glycogen stores are topped off already, once again because you're eating a lot of carbs, whether it be dieting or not dieting, but if your glycogen stores are almost full and then you eat a large carb meal, some of that's going to not have room to get stored in glycogen and then very smoothly get stored as fat if it doesn't get burned as energy. During a dieting state where you do a lot of cardio, some of it can be burned as energy off season where you kind of conserving calories because you're trying to grow, you could get fat from that. So you have to take this into consideration. So to answer the age of question, what better a sweet potato or a white potato, it depends the circumstance. So you can't, there's no definitive yes or no answer. It really depends how the person's body processes carbohydrates is in an off season versus dieting scenario. Is there an over-bundance of calories versus an under-bundance because you're trying to lose weight. And that's how you make your decision. Also, sometimes people just need variation in their diet. So it's not at the end of the world to throw a white potato when if you're giving people sweet potatoes all day long, just to break it off as well. Alright guys, I hope this helped you. I hope it answered some questions or maybe it just maybe raised more questions and you have to experiment on yourself. On day polonbo, with an Rx muscle rant.

I think we ordered initially about half a dozen T-shirts. I thought who would want to go to the gold scheme T-shirt. I came up to this area which is Oakland and I went to a bar and I collaborated every and there was a band up there called Mr. Clean and something. I said, get yourself a Mr. Clean bottle and make me a drawing of Mr. Clean with a barbell. Here's what happened. I had designed the golds gym logo. In 1973, I'm an African and Zookies Deli with Kim Waller and all. I think Kim's spring might have been there. He gave an artist Rick Dreson a gym member, Mr. Clean bottle. He says, I want the T-shirt to look like this except with a barbell. So Rick made a ball hit man. Looks sort of like Mr. Clean with a lot more muscle. And he put a barbell in the middle of it and a barbell was straight. I said, everything is good Rick. It's said, we're just going to bend the barbell. And that's where the original logo came from that we put on the ghost gym stuff. Mr. Clean will clean your whole house and everything that's in. Mr. Clean, Mr. Clean, Mr. Clean. And sure enough, that goofy old golds gym logo was born. So they printed up all these shirts and they didn't do it. And they sold them all out the first day. Well, slowly we'd get letters from people around the country. Can I buy one of those T-shirts? So they said, we need more. He's choice to print more. And it built from there and then thousands by the time I sold many thousands a month would be sold. And so they started selling more and more and became over the years in large selling lowland world. The way it was set up to promote it, I tell producers if you need a place for gym location. Come on down the gold. You know, use the facility free. Anytime you want to do a TV spot or a movie spot, you go ahead and use it with one restriction. Have to have a golds gym t-shirt across the chest. And then from that point on, that propelled it into the general public. When I talked to Ken Sprig, he remembers that he says, thank you, paid $25 to draw that thing. I said, I don't remember that at all. I never got a dime for it. I just had taken it. It realizes. Welcome back to the history of body building. As you saw in the little preview clip we aired before the show started. We have a documentary coming out on the history of Venice essentially. And the man who made it is here today, Mark Martinez, welcome to the show. Your documentary is called Dream Big, which is a very apt title for this documentary. Considering that a lot of bodybuilders went out to California and made that total room of Jothan, a golds gym, because they had big dreams and they wanted to achieve greatness. The biggest, probably, dream out. The dream were out there was armed Schwarz and Eger. And we know what happened with him. Welcome to the show number one. Number two, tell us about how this whole documentary came about. Well, thank you Dave. And thank you to Ed Conters for setting this up. I appreciate it. I got started on this on the documentary basically, because I was a teenager. I grew up in Southern California. And about the time I became aware of bodybuilding. I was probably freshman in high school. And probably lived about 20 miles away from the original golds gym. And a couple of my buddies and I were looking at the book pumping iron in school. And at that time, you're looking at these photos of these guys. And there's just no reference point form. Especially in the middle 70s, right? You're looking at that. And anyway, I think a couple years later, when I got serious and I had a car, drove out there. And we found out, like, oh, well, the original golds has been turned into a house. The owner can spray, turned it into his house and moved golds to Santa Monica to second street. So that's that was kind of my entry into it. And that was the kind of own that house. I didn't know he lived in that house actually. Is it actual house for a while? Yeah, he did for a bit. He, in fact, it's not, it's not in the movie, but one of the interviews. He said that Eddie, Eddie Giuliani and Roger Coward saved him a lot of construction gas, because Roger knew drywall and you electrical. So they were able to build everything to code. Anyway, can live there for a bit and then sold it. I think it's, I think it's on its third owner now. But when Ken told me that his oldest son, who was a basketball player, played for the University of Oregon and is now a high school administrator, down in Atlanta, Georgia, he said that was my oldest son's bedroom was for Arnold and and according were squatting, because that was son's bedroom. So that's kind of cool. Is it, I think, I thought the city of Venice turned into some kind of national monument. That's nothing, is that not true? Well, it's, it's true in the sense that the sign cannot be, if you, if you've seen photos of it, it's a house that you'll see that golds gym, font, the sign is just still out there. Yeah, I've won half the million times when I was out there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And the entrance, you know, you could see the entrance on the front gate, but it can send even back in those days, everyone entered from the rear, awful specific they would enter in the alleyway behind it. And if you go in the alley behind it, you'll see, you could tell that people live there. Yeah. But anyway. That's funny. I moved the, and they moved the golds to the original location to the Santa Monica, and because they wanted more room on the serving, right? Right, right, can, yeah. Can't said it was probably about two and a half times the size of the original, and it really wasn't even that big either. Yeah. I think, I think the one on second street was about 5,000 square feet. Yeah. And it used to be an automotive repair garage. But it had great skylights, it had great brick walls, and a trust ceiling, and a good place to train. Right. And so when you start researching this and saying, I think I want to make a documentary on the history of this gym, because it's so, I mean, universally known, and there's so much history there, a witty start. I mean, how do you actually get started on a project like that? I don't know, even though I guess, you know, Ed Conner's obviously is a good historian, but you had to go back beyond him even really. Yeah. Well, you know, that was the thing is, I was on the internet, and this had to be like early 2000s, and I'm reading, and you're reading these different things on different websites, and I'm sure we've all had the experience where you're like, that's not what happened. Yeah, that's not true. And one, because I joined when I was 17, and I walked in there, and I was very, very lucky in 1977. I'm 16 out. Yeah. In 1977, and that was the year that pumping iron was released. Right. I think bodybuilding probably just burst into the American mainstream in terms of awareness. It was still so new. Yeah. And can had just organized this crazy Mr. America parade through the street to Santa Monica to promote not only the gym, but the contest, because he promoted that year's AAU, Mr. America at the Santa Monica Civic. Okay. So it was, that's the environment I came into. It's like you walk in. All the stores are there. Right. T local TV stations are coming in constantly to shoot packages for the evening news and interview the guys. And it was just, it fired me up as a kid. And then years later, looking back saying, wait a minute, I was there. I know some of the guys. Right. I can contact him, and it kind of grew from there. What were the main, like, I guess household names over there at the time? Well, when I walked in one, and in the documentary, there's a point where I talk about, of course, there's Arnold and there's Zayne and there's Franco. By that time, those three guys were training at World Gym. But pretty much everyone else was a goal. When I walked in, Robby was there, Bill Grant, some mic mentor, Pete Grimkowski, high level A, you competitive Richard Ball, who was there training for a contest, Larry Gordon, Tony Pierce, and Mani Perry, a lot of people, the name of people from the 70s and 80s remember the mentors there at that point? Yeah, Mike was and then Ray came out later. I think Ray came out late 78. But I think Ray came about the time that I remember about the time Casey had come out. Yeah. Kate, Kate, Barry tour, and Danny Pothier would come out. When he was training for a show, he'd come back out from Rochester. So we were in Joe Weedorwood, walk in, and there'd be a couple of photographers like a guy named Craig Deet, he had, and then he also had to build rentals. And they would do photoshoot, right there. They'd set up the lights and do photoshoot. Was Lou there or was Lou at the World at that point? Lou was at both. And the whole, I mean, the whole goal of Jim World's Jim thing is a documentary. I don't know. Yeah, because Joe Gold is in a live anymore, just to do that one. Yeah, you know, I mean, it's, it's, you're getting any Julia, I didn't know for that one, man. Well, you know, it was funny. I saw Eddie at the file. I was down in Southern California a couple years ago, and I hadn't seen Eddie in years since World Jim. And went over and said hi, and we were talking. But he doesn't, I don't think he really likes to be interviewed. You know, I had him on my radio show years ago. It's great. Oh, he was awesome. Yeah, I don't think he liked, I don't think he does a lot of interviews, but he was really good on that show, you know. Yeah, oh, yeah, he's got great stories. Yeah. It's great, great guy. So yeah, I mean, that's how we started the research. I'm like, you know what, I know, I know I'm still in contact. I'll get one guy to contact other guys. I sent out emails and then got some back, some I didn't. But it was kind of, it's been a long, I just processed. I actually started this as a documentary on the 1977 Mr. America parade. So, you know, the guys that were in the parade that were at goals were like, Bill Grant, Ken Waller, Rudy Hermesio, who was Sylvester Stallone's bodyguard. And was a teenage Mr. America. Yeah, Rudy Hermesio. Okay. If you see, if if you Google him, you'll see him in Stallone. It's still long, it's giving him the trophy at the 78 goals classic. Rudy, but I got that. But I got that. Hermocio, H-E-R. And he was a bodyguard, okay. Yeah, and he also worked for Larry Flint as well. Howard, huh? Okay. And he was training people at Jim, like the race car driver Danny Sullivan, a couple of actors from Little House on the prairie at the time. I mean, that was the way that the Jim was, but that's kind of how I did my research. It's like, wait a minute, I was there. Right. I made it in a kid, but I knew the guys. And so, kind of group, from I think interviewing five guys to eventually, 16, 16 people about seven hours of interviews called down to about 90 minutes. Who was the most informative of all the people you interviewed? Well, I think it depends on what subject, but I would say, I would say, um, three guys, John Baylick. Yeah. Good. Charles Gaines, who wrote, stay hungry and pumping iron. Right. And Ken Spray. And one, because with Ken, you learn the chain of ownership of goals that a lot of people don't know. Give us that chain of ownership. Well, yeah, well, you know, everyone knows, you know, the name of the Jim is Gold's Jim. So, Joe Gold has built Gold's Jim in 65 and sold it in 1970. And a lot of guys, you know, it's hard for people today to realize, I mean, I know Gold is, it's still a large brand. They're still, what, over 500 locations around the world. But back then, um, there was no money in it. And, uh, Ken Spray said, I think Joe got tired of just like, running the Jim and not making any money. So he was looking for a buyer. And then, um, there were two guys in the Jim, but Danets and Dave Sacks. Mm-hm. And, uh, but Danets was an antique dealer. Dave Sacks was an engineer and was also a Jim member. And they bought it from Joe. Oh, I didn't even know that. I thought it went right to, you know, what's his name? Ken. Ken, yeah, I know. Like, that was one thing I found out about. How much did they sell it for? Did you find that up? You know, I know that Ken, Ken bought it from Dave and But, um, and he said he had to come up with $50,000. That's a lot. That's a lot. Yeah, back then it was, but what, what, um, he said what, um, Well, but Danets did when he bought the, the Jim from Joe was he bought, there was an empty lot next to the Jim on one side. And then there was a house on the other side. So, but Danets bought three lots. So, when Ken bought the Jim from him, um, he bought those three lots. So, it's like, okay, I bought the Jim and I bought, whatever reputation was at the Jim. I mean, it's hard for people to believe by 1972 and Ken bought it. Goals hadn't promoted a contest. They still were really known outside of people about body building magazines. Right. So, he almost three plots a land. Um, $50,000 is super mortgages. And, um, but Danets was desperate. He had some antique sprang-coat on me, but had some antique that were in the port of L.A., on a ship and he had no money to get them off. And that was his business. So, he's like, I have to sell the Jim to get the antique. Oh, my God. Yeah, they were going to sell the Jim anyway because they weren't making money either. Right. And, uh, I think, um, Ken said they came to me pretty much as a last resort. Like, hey, maybe this guy's got some cash. We can get the money for it. That's a lot of money back then. Yeah. Well, you know, um, Ken had a, uh, uh, production company. And he said we did everything from the O'Leo Marjorie commercials. Who religious programs to, Pornographic film. Oh, really? That's funny. Oh, yeah. It was on the, it was on the sound stage. And he said it was kind of funny because he said I'm not going to be shooting a blue movie on a Saturday night. And then, you know, we strike the set and then Sunday, we'd have a local preacher doing his doing his. And he's like so, and Ken, um, uh, Ken also had done, like, a lot of the guys, some modeling. Some, some modeling that was, Like, do you know, like, do you like stuff, you know, right? For certain magazines, it went not, but he said he, he got connected with a lot of people and Hollywood a lot of film directors whatnot. So he said all of a sudden, he was, I kind of had some leverage. Like, it's like, if they liked me, they would invest. Right. So, yeah. So I think that's kind of how it came about. And he just marketed the gym. I think something that Dan was, yeah, could. What do you think Joe sold it to the original guys for? Do you think, uh, you know, I think it was 50,000. Oh, so they didn't make any money on it. I, I, I, they stayed in the money back at Yatsha. Yeah. And, and, and only because John Bailey can mention that was the amount the Joe gold had mentioned to John because he wanted to sell it to John and John's, like, I can't come up with the money at the time. Right. But Joe, Joe had incorporated it. So he had shares in it for what that was worth. Yeah. But it was, it was pretty on the cheek. Bailey, like, if Bailey, when he got into Hollywood, that man, that would have been a, you know, a score for him. And he probably like banging his head against the table to get the money for that thing, you know. Oh, I know. I know. I mean, you, I mean, Bailey was a great interview because he mentioned his, his, his ideas for the Iron Man Jim's years later when when he owned the magazine. Right. But he, you know, he had ideas, but I don't know if that was in hindsight after what he solid happened with colds or not, but I enjoyed John's interviews. Just so knowledgeable on such a great guy. And he's a very good historian. You remember everything? Yes. I don't, I don't think I would be able to come up with all that information. I don't know if he's going to interview the him before it's really good. Yeah. He's got like an idetic mind, you know, I'm telling you like a story about Dick Tyler in 1964, then he'll tell you about some story in 1989 or something. It was just amazing. So, all right. So we got the, the chain of command went from Joe to them to now. They said the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, now how did he decide to finally solve the Jim? Yeah. Well, I'm 10. And in those seven years, uh, games of Butler come out to Chronicle and write the book pumping iron, um, shoot the movie a year or two later. And so it got really, really famous under under Ken's ownership, right? But his, his wife at the time, Marion, um, had gotten really sick with cancer. Oh. And, and this was in about 1978. And he said at that point, he had a lot of violence in the fire at the Jim. And he basically had, um, taken control of amateur bodybuilding with the AAU and gift raptured to the leaders because they wanted the AAU under the IFPB banner, right? Which eventually, I guess became the MPC. Sure. What he said, he was doing that. He was running the Jim. He had started running in other high end Jim, uh, in North in West Hollywood. And, um, and then he also owned a restaurant as well as real estate holdings. And then his wife gets cancer. So he says at that point, he's, I just had, yeah, too many plates spinning. And, um, his wife was dying Marion, had befriended Pete Grimmowski. She just says, you know, I think Pete would be a really good stewardship for the Jim because he really cares. Yeah. So that's, I think that's when Pete recruited, uh, Tim and Ed. And it was a fourth guy for a while that dropped out early. But that's kind of how the change of ownership went. I thought Ed was the guy who kind of got everyone else. But it seems like it was, it was Pete that actually recruited Ed, huh? Right. Right. Interesting. Yeah. What did they pay for that Jim from, at that time? You know, I think it was, I think they paid, uh, it wasn't a whole lot. And I think one again, because Cam was, he didn't need the money. But I think it was about Tim, Kimber, if you've spoken to Tim or Pete, they verified. I want to say it was like 125,000 or 150,000. But, but can had maintained ownership of some of the licensing fees on merchandise. Uh, at first. I think he eventually relinquished that. Okay. But that was, that was, uh, the, it wasn't, it wasn't a whole lot. And can actually, um, was approached by another buyer group that offered way more than that. Like, can't it said it was over 10 times what a cow keep. But can't like, one, I don't need the money. And they're like, we're going to sue you because sue me of what? It's my property. You can't do it too well. You know, they, they wanted it. But, uh, it went to the right hand. For sure. Yeah. Well, you knew that the bodyables would protect it. So now, when did they decide to move goals? Was that after the purchase? Um, yes. And again, this, I think, um, I had a really, really great interview with Pete, uh, Grimm Kowski that I think I have about two hours of pee. That I have to call, I've called it down to like maybe four minutes. Oh, my God. But there is so much and the movement of goals from second street back to Venice. Yeah. Probably has a little bit to do with the whole world gym, gold, gym war. Because Ken Spray was offered the building that gold was in on second street. Yeah. The guy that owned that building. There was a, uh, a Delhi next to it. And then on the other side of goals was pussycat theater. Yeah. And, um, and, um, but the guy hole at the guy owned the entire, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Billed it. And Ken's like, um, you know, I'm, I'm out of the real estate game. I'm out of, I, I've got other things on my plate. Well, Robert Blake bought that building. Oh, uh, right up the actor right. Oh, right up. So Robert Blake, um, bought the building. And, uh, Pete says, you know what? He goes, I know that that Robert was chemming up with Arnold and he was showing up over at World Gym, even though he was training at Vince's and the valley. Yeah. And he says about that time, we started getting a lot of holes in our roof and a lot of leaks. No way. And all of a sudden he goes, it goes, he owns a building. And all of a sudden our rent quadruple. Oh, and he said, yeah. So he says we, we didn't want to cast dispersions, but it was very, very suspicious that we, he goes, we started sustaining a lot of water damage and other buildings in the same or other businesses and same building weren't. And we were. And so, um, they locked out. I think Pete went over to that building on Hampton. Yeah. And, um, you know, at that time, and it's kind of revered to that, but in a different way. It was kind of an war zone. And, uh, but it was cheap. Like, I already read a lot of games around there, right? Exactly. Exactly. A lot, a lot, yeah. A lot of gang activity in that part of Venice. And, um, Pete somehow had, uh, connections with Ruth Gellantre who was an L.A. County supervisor. And she also owned property in that section of L.A. and in the Venice section of L.A. So he got a really, really good sweetheart deal. And so they were able to get out of second street, um, over to Hampton and dirt cheap. And, uh, it's a good story to know that. And it's interesting, Robert Blake was the guy who was accused of killing his wife, too. Yeah, exactly. Years later. Yeah, years later. And he somehow got off. So it doesn't, you know, it might not be that shocking of a story to, to buy into that, that there was some sabotage at that point. But, uh, because Joe Gold did not like the, you know, if you trained at World at Gold Gym and didn't come to World Gym where he opened his gym, he didn't talk to it, right? I mean, from a leaf priest kind of insinuated that to me, you know. Yeah, it was, it was a long, it was a long standing, um, it's odd, I had to kind of, I had to kind of, um, can you still see me? Yeah, yep. Okay, because it just said my internet was unstable. I was just going to apologize for that. But, um, there were guys that were Joe Gold, Loyalists and guys that were Gold Gym, Ken Spray Loyalists. And I kind of had to, when I'm interviewing these guys, you know, because I belong to both Jins. Yeah. Once Ken sold Golds, I joined World and I joined World. But Ken Spray could beat Joe Gold into lawsuits. And so there was a lot, a lot of bad blood. Um, Joe. Over the lawsuits, over. The lawsuits were, um, you know, Joe, Joe wanted back in the gym business. And he offered Ken, he offered money to Ken in like 76 for the gym. And it was a lowball offer. And Ken says, you know, no, um, no, I'm doing well. Thank you. And Ken said, the only reason I did change the name was out is just too lazy. Because I could have changed it to Silver's gym or Ken's gym or gym gym. Yeah. He goes it in really mad, right? Just kept it on it. But anyway, so Joe wanted to build a gym. And part of the non-compete clause in the original sale was Joe could open up another gym. He can't use his name. Right. But you, you can't use your name. And you can't open it up within a certain distance. Oh, okay. Well, Joe, Ken says I see Joe break round on Main Street and Santa Monica, the less than a mile and a half for my gym, which is way inside. And he's already break. He was, I let them finish the building and then I suit him. And so he goes, I had Joe go dead to rights because there was no way he could open up a gym because but I looked across the table, the guy loves the gym. That's, it's like, yeah. I just made, I told him I said, look, we can coexist. Yeah. It's going to be a great gym. We'll put forth some other restrictions. You can advertise, right? Right. And you can't have photos to be in this gym in any magazine for two years. Joe, like, sure, they hand-shake their, the lawyer side off. No food or does that happen. All of a sudden, their show photos, the world gym showing up in muscle digest. That, um, what I guess what they did was they set up a ladder and took pictures through the window. Um, you know, but Ken's like, well, here we go again. It's like, right to my face. So there's so, so much bad blood that started with that that a lot of people don't know. I didn't know. But Ken said, you know what? After that, it's like, you know what? If fine, you know, we're both doing fine. Um, but so that was interesting. Yeah, I was just, I don't know. I don't know. Sorry, who told you that story? Well, I've heard it. John Baylick, Ken, Rick Trace. I mean, it was, it was one of those things too that I think because, um, you know, we all make a lot of it for our friends, right? You know, um, you know, people we know and they might do something. We'll go, oh, you know, I probably wouldn't have done that, but you're my friend. And I'm with you. And I think they kind of stuck like Franco and Rick, like, yeah, Joe, that probably wasn't too cool, but you are a guy. Yeah. But there were a lot of guys that went back and forth. There were guys that lived in both worlds, Plats, Lou. Yeah. Quite a few guys could go back and forth to both gyms. And Joe was okay with Lou going back and forth. Yeah. Yeah. You know, he loved Lou. Like, you know, Lou was just great publicity and for some reason. I don't know. Maybe because he was called Arnold guy. Yeah. Well, aren't, but Arnold never went to golf, right? No, Arnold. Yeah. After, um, after that lawsuit in 76 and, and that was the, um, he's, we're getting the lawyer talk here. I don't know if this is too interesting or not. No, I think it's very interesting because I didn't know. Okay. But Arnold, um, right about the time education of a bodybuilder and come out, you know, in the book, I believe he had said that Gold's gym no longer exists and now it is world gym. And then, yeah, if you look at the first edition, or he had said that, well, he also said going from Gold's to world as I going from an outhouse to a penthouse. Oh, wow. And he, he also repeated that on the Johnny Carson Show and the Murphy's Show. Oh, my God. And, um, and then Bobby Schreiber, who is Maria Schreiber's brother, you know, he married Maria, and Bobby was writing for the L.A. Carol Examiner, which was her herst newspaper in Los Angeles. Yeah. And, and, and all of a sudden, the world, all these articles in L.A. Carol Examiner, shady dealings and Gold's gym is both gym and front for, just Gold's, just, you know, and so Ken says I called up my lawyers that this is it. Just we're going to town, you know, and they slat he goes, we slap the lawsuit on Arnold for slander and liable. Oh, wow. Really. And, um, and he goes, and we also sued Gold's Gulf Western Paramount, which owned Paramount studios, which was investing in Arnold's career at that time. And, um, Arnold got to testify on behalf of Arnold, and he was a part of the party's elder and Joe Weeder. Joe Weeder testified on behalf of Ken and already, was kind of like a hostile witness. He didn't want to testify against anyone. And, already, that's just I don't want to get involved, right? Um, but, um, anyway, I took a lot of Joe Weeder action testified theoretically against Arnold in the sense, right? Right. Right. And, and it was, it was a lot going on because Arnold's contract with Joe was, uh, expiring. Of course, he'd already retired, right? It was like 1977. He was never coming back. No. And, um, but he was chumming up with muscle digest. It was a smaller publication. Yeah. Published down in Southern California, but Arnold was trying to use them for leverage. And Joe felt kind of hurt. But then, you know, I think it's funny, because I have the deposition papers. Can gave him to me. Yeah. Um, but it's pretty interesting. But anyways, the, um, the lawsuit to back off, um, I don't know if Gulf West Trinit said, you know what? We're not going to win this. Let's kind of fold our tents. And it kind of just went away. But that's, that's a lot of the world gym goals gym, bad blood. Do they have to pay anything to, can? You know, for, for what? I think the lawsuit was still going on. Peacrum Calves, he said he dropped the lawsuit because he did and the stomach for it. Got it. And by that time, I think Ken's wife had died. Uh-uh. Um, if you look at the, if you look at the, if you look at the deposition, I don't think that Gulf Western would have won that. I think Ken would have because, um, just because of what was imprint and what was said, you know, so. So when Ed and Pete and Tim took over goals, um, obviously moved it to the new location, which was way bigger. Um, yeah. What was the, what changed? Because it looked like that's when gold kind of like took off into orbit, so to speak. Yeah, you know, um, I was a member there for a little bit. And, um, I think one, the space was larger. Uh, they eventually opened up a few, a few more days in that building on Hampton. Right. Um, you can probably get like Tim or Ed to talk about it because that you want one, that was their gym. They owned it. They knew what they did. But it, it, it, one, I think the magazines, you know, it was like body building became huge, right? Everyone was doing it. Um, and I think the magazines, when when people would look at the magazines and see these guys training there, um, that everyone wanted to go there. And, and it exploded. I think, um, you know, Ed had mentioned this that, uh, the logo of goals, um, was over the window, so that when the photos were taken inside the gym, he would all see the goals logo. Yeah. And so it just kind of reinforcing it and branding it. And, um, at that time too, let's, it was before the internet. Um, and people had to go to one location. They hadn't started licensing those gyms yet. Right. Um, and it was still a destination. So I, I think that's what, what did it, you know. I think the size of the gym helped tremendously. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And Joggle was very, you know, he didn't play music. He, you know, he was very restricted in what you could do. And you couldn't do there. So I think a lot of people didn't feel comfortable, maybe, in that gym, you know, you're right. So obviously, goals became the place that they wanted people in there. And totally got the whole marketing aspect of it. I mean, if you were a bodybuilder, you trained there for free. They gave you free clothing. They wanted you to wear the clothes. They, it was a very welcome environment. At least I remember in the early 90s when I went there, you know. So I think that was really what made the gym so welcoming to the masses, you know. Oh, yeah. You know, yeah. You mentioned that when you said, um, the clothing and the branding and and two, I, I noticed that not only a personality shift, but an age difference between world and gold because a lot of the world guys were probably the original Joe gold guys from back in the middle 60s. Right. Because I've ever seen a lot of guys that to me were old back then. Yeah. They're probably the age I am now. And they stuck with Joe through those years. But you're right. It's like, you know, peak room, Calstukits. And we gave way a lot of, he called it activity. Yeah. And by activity, you know, free gym memberships the clothing. He says that they became walking, you know, walking, it advertised for our business. Yeah. But also Pete, you know, I told Pete, I said, you know, not a lot of people would do that. And I go, you, I think Pete comes from an abundance mindset. Mm-hmm. You know, he's just like, everyone can be successful. And, um, he's, uh, Yeah. Are you okay? Now I'm good. I'm just, oh, my, my producer. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You know, you're just giving away gym memberships and, and, and clothing sweatsuits, um, paying, paying guys' ways to compete, you know, feeding them. And, um, and yeah, Yaki, like you said, it was just a way, way, way more welcoming environment for, for young guys. What was the most, um, I guess monumental thing that you kind of, you learned while doing this documentary. Like, what was something like you said, holy, Mac, I didn't even really realize this is, this is, this is, like, this is something like that people are going to see, wow, when they, when they watch this documentary. Yeah, um, got, um, in terms of the documentary, the content, I think it would be the history of the ownership of gold, because like you, uh, you know, when I joined gold, can't own it. I didn't even know about gannets and sacks in between. Mm-hmm. And, uh, unless you do a deep dive on that, right. You, you wouldn't, you, you wouldn't know. And I, I think that's it. I also think the backstory of the book pumping, the iron, the album, and it's, uh, Charles Gaines to get that thing published. You got turned down by, I think, three different publishing companies, right, um, before he finally got that, uh, in print. And, um, those are two things that are huge that we don't realize that those things don't happen. If gold's Jim doesn't stay open, then the book pumping iron never gets written. If that book never gets published, a movie never gets made. We never, you know, sure. So many things hindered on those. So I think, I think those are the two, the two biggest. Mm-hmm. Do you think that you see or saying basically the pumping iron put gold, Jim on the map is really one of them out to do? Yeah, I think so. I mean, one because of Arnold, right. I think one, I think, um, a lot. Charles Gaines just said, we just, he was the first time I met Arnold. Um, I turned to George Butler and go, this, this guy's going to be a star. He goes, and this was like 1972, when they met at some little tiny contest in the East Coast, because there's just something about this guy, man. He's just think it was in, uh, he was, we should do a book on him. So I think that's kind of how pumping iron came about. Nice. You know, I mean, Well, I mean, dream big, it looks like a really, I thought you sent me about it. I think I'd worth it about a six minute or a 12 minute clip for something like that. I watched. Yeah. I was completely engrossed. I forgot. I was a clip. I was watching. I was also in the stuff. I'm like, I wanted to see the rest of it. You know, I was so engaged in it. So I know you spent a lot of time. You labored a lot. I know you're still trying to raise the rest of the money to kind of finish the project and get it into some of these film festivals. I think it's going to do really well. What your projection in terms of life when you think this thing might actually hit where people can actually, you know, watch it somewhere. Well, I have to get it submitted to the Venice Film Festival in California by Middleson, Timber. And if it's accepted, uh, the festival was October 1st through 3rd. Right. So my hope there is that it gets some recognition and hopefully gets picked up for some sort of distribution. So it'd be after that. The plan B, let's just say it gets no recognition, then I will probably do itself self upload to like iTunes, if the meow. Yeah. Amazon. I think it will get well. What's the length of the film? It is, it is about an hour and 20 minutes. Oh, good. It's starting to finish, not counting credits. So and and I had to cut a lot of stuff out. I mean, it just, you know, it looks like a like a like a blooper reel. That will, you know, or direct this guy as soon as. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's, there's some really good stuff. I want to see it all. I want to see all the footage. I want to watch all the raw footage, too. That's a great. You probably make another whole movie from the raw footage you have. Yeah. Yeah. Probably. Just from the green caskies interview from what you're telling me. You know. What, what an amazing character. I mean, just, you know, he's, it's, it's funny. I just think he's almost like the epitome, you know, a guy that flew out from Florida. You know, he was, he left raw chesters and Florida flies out with less than 70 bucks in his pocket. It's sleeping under the period and Dale burgers. You know, and he goes, I didn't people were laughing at me because I knew they're making fun. I mean, he's like, you really got it. Sleeps under the pier. You know, and, you know, two years later, he was in a position to buy gold and then a couple years after that, he had license it to a few hundred locations. So, you talk about a seat of the pants, believe in yourself, kind of guy. Yeah. He peed it. You know. Hey, he envisioned it and he made it happen. That's, that's really what it amounts to. I mean, it's phenomenal. Now, you are trying to raise somebody to finish this film off. What's the go fund me account if people want to donate to this? Yeah. I sent a link. It is, is go fund me. They can check it on Facebook. If they do. I want to put it up on the screen. So where can I answer this? Okay. What's the name of the go fund me account? What is it under? It's under, uh, more important. It's go, uh, dream big documentary, more important. We'll pull that up. And um, and what are you looking to raise? Well, what I'm looking to raise, uh, my initial ask was about 30, 30,000. Right. The, you know, insurance is the most important. We almost have that covered. What is that? What exactly is that for? Well, it's, uh, air is an omissions insurance. And so when, um, when you write a book or, uh, do a movie. And you put it out there for public consumption. Um, there are people that might take offense. Um, although this movie, there's, there's all heroes in this movie. There's no villains. Yeah. So there's really little exposure. But you still, uh, in terms of also stuff that had to purchase, there's a B-roll footage from, um, producers library and on ball films and getting images. And all these other places itself stock footage and photos. Um, I have to have to pay for. I just don't, um, well, so I have to protect yourself, uh, indemnity against, uh, anyone who might be in a photo that takes offense to it or something. And it's just, it's, it's, you know, what you have to do in the legal world. And, and so that's, um, uh, that's the air, the air is an omissions insurance. There's color correction, professional color correction and sound mixing. And then, uh, film festival fees. So, um, and you're fun to be solving yourself pretty much from your pocket. Yeah, pretty much. I had a life coach named Mike Murphy. He's living in Columbia now. He runs a, uh, a cancer foundation, uh, for women who don't have funds. And he's putting a lot of his money towards that. So he, he helped get me started, but it's been pretty much mostly me since then. And, um, um, I could enter it into the film festival with the best color correction I can do in the best sound mixing. I can do, um, and hope for the best, um, would prefer someone who professionally does that to be able to, uh, Yeah, sure. I'm kind of giving one to you. Yeah, totally. Yeah. Well, good luck with the rest of the project. I am, I am, for everyone out there who's watching. If you want to see this movie, go donate a few bucks to Mark's, uh, fund. We put it up on the screen because, you know, the history, well, we got as a history about it. A lot of people know nothing about the history of our sport about the gyms and gold gym and Venice. This is, this is great. I can't wait to watch the whole thing to be honest with you. It was really captivating what I did watch. I know a lot of the people in it. I know Bill Grand very well and Bill's in real character as well. So, yeah, you didn't get Lee on Brown in the movie, did you? No, I didn't. Yeah. That was fun. Oh, I know. Yeah, an original character from the book Pumping Iron, too. Yeah. Yeah. Well, good luck. You'll keep us updated when the movie is ready to come out. So we can tell our audience. And like I said, great job with this and I really enjoyed the interview today. Learn a lot of. Well, thank you. Thank you. I did as well, Dave. Thank you very much. I appreciate having this form. So, thanks again. And guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of the history of bodybuilding. I'm Dave Palumba with Mark Martinez. We'll see you next time.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIDX Road, there's 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the Ocar Hot Tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Polumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in this Species Nutrition line of products we use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. When you're asleep, they're just getting started. John, Dave Polumbo, after hours. Welcome back to After-Hours. Once again, I'm Dave Polumbo joined by my co-hosting crime John Romano, and John, it's funny. I have a very good dear client of mine, Phil Klohari's an IFVV pro. I just play fourth at the Tampa Pro, and Ron Harris contacted him from Muscle Development to doing interview. Ron has to do pre-interviews with these guys because he doesn't follow really anything that's going on, so he doesn't know what's going on. During the pre-interview, he's like, well, who trains you and he's like, Dave Polumbo does my diet and he's like, oh, we can't talk about him. Can you believe Blackwyn is still censoring the guests? That's the way they can talk about it and I talk about it. Oh my god, yeah, of course I can believe it. You know, we haven't let go of him. He's not going to let go of us. Yeah, we can't fit it. But I mean, we do it because we have an endless comedic value to him. He's still the freaking guy who can't fit it. Now we're talking about Dave Polumbo. Ron, take the editing. Ron just doesn't want to have to re-enate the interview. That's all. Like, God forbid Blackwyn actually listens to it, you know? Exactly. Or imagine if you did his diet trained and took your supplements and he lived with you. Yeah, he does. Yeah, he does. What? We're taking a talk about it. Right. Well, I said, yeah, you're interviewing the person except you're really not asking him about how they actually had success in their prep because you're not allowed to talk about certain aspects of their life. So I said, what's the purpose of doing the interview then? What? Talk about something else. I don't know. It makes something up. You're not going to talk about sport. We need to write. I just imagine how tormented he must be in his head. How just absolutely conflicted and tormented. Yeah. I would bet that in his deep darkest places, he is in agony. Yeah. Well, he is. Yeah, of course. He's got all this money. He's got all this money. And he could buy all the glutes in the world with it. He could, we wear it a smoke and jacket every day in a freaking tower. 10,000. He could buy a tie land or something. Yeah. And he knows it. But he can't do it. And the thing is, when he eventually dies, probably at 120 years old because he'll live forever because he's so healthy. You know, God bless him. I hope he does. You know, it's going to happen. Jordan when he gets his, his son when he gets his inheritance will spend it. We'll be spending like he's like Donald Trump, you know. The money will be, but healthy spending the way Steve wants to spend, you know. Right. Well, except we'll be spending it on marijuana and skateboarding. Oh, whatever he's interested. But I'm saying, he'll enjoy his life now, you know. Oh, yeah, no. He won't be tormented. Blackman's torment. Yeah. He's absolutely tormented. He is, he, it's like, it's like you feel like this pile of cash right here, you know, 300,000 dollars. And you wanted to buy this and you wanted this Ferrari in the worst. But you, you can't spend, yeah. You can't do it. You have the money. You have his right there. And you can't buy the Ferrari. That's right. So he, he's, he's an agony to court. I mean, what, what do you think he thinks about the David Pecker, you know, being a let go from MMI there? Oh, that's a victory for him. Yeah, I would think so, right? Oh, absolutely. That's, that's a, I beat him, you know. Maybe now he can retire, you know, maybe now he can, you know, he can let go, because he's outlasted everybody else gone. He's, he's the, he's the last ship in the Armada that hasn't sunk yet, you know. Well, let me look at Iron Man's gun. Muscle mag is gun, flex is gun, Muscle, they're all gone. He, he, he actually won, I don't know what he won. And he won the booby prize, but, uh, maybe he's the stupidest person to keep printing a magazine. That's about the only thing I could think of, I guess. It's like you live in this neighborhood, okay? And Thursday night you take out the trash, right? And, and you hate to look of trash cans in front of the house. So use the guide of weights to the last possible minute before the garbage man comes to put his trash can even if he's got to wake up at 330 in the morning and do it. So, so that as soon as the trash can is empty, he can put it back and he doesn't have to deal with the trash can in front of him. It matters that much, you know, that he's the last magazine standing. It's like, it's exactly like it's, you're the only house in the block that doesn't have the garbage can out. There you go. That's how it works. That's a good metaphor. I got it, bitch, and we can play them at something you see this. This is, you know what this is, John? No. It is one of those little bleach tabs that you drop into your toilet wall. Ah, yeah, it's okay. You actually put it into tank of the toilet wall so that you, right. The water stays, I don't disinfect it, is that what it's supposed to be? Is it a blue one? Do you like the blue color? I do like the blue one. This happens if you're a white one. Just for disinfection purposes or everything smells nice. They don't tell you something about these. These things disintegrate the internal components of the toilet wall. Now, how I know that? Because my toilet wall was running. You've got a non stop. And when the toilet, when you have a water system on your house, a very expensive one that has a 500 gallon storage tank, and you make our own water and you cute, you alkalineize it and it has stored. And then you go to turn the water on in the morning to brush your teeth and you got no water. And you say, why don't I have any water? You sound like I'm selling my father. And it turns out that this stupid tab disintegrated the toilet in my office here, which then made it run all night, which depleted my tank. I didn't believe it, but it's the truth. So my gut, my plumber comes, who was always at my house for some reason. He's, by the way, uses species nutrition supplements. I wish I could pay him in species supplements, because every time he comes across me, 120 bucks. And he's like, I have a change in eternal guts. Are you using any kind of drop in the huge tab? So I'm like, I had the fact I am. I said, I'm a, we like keeping clean here. He's like, well, it's eating away a corroded away the internal components of the toilet ball. I said, well, why do they sell these things then? No, no, this goes in the tank. Oh, it goes in the tank. But it's the, it's rubber, it's rubber, it's. I think it's a conspiracy. I think the plumber of America have designed this tab purposely to disintegrate the internal components of the ball. So they have more work. That's my, that's my conspiracy theory for the day. It's an interesting theory. But there is evidence to prove that this, this, this, this does kill the COVID-19 virus. I guess this, this, this, this. So you have what does it. This, this, this, this, this, this, this, this. The other thing that's asking me today is I have these one guys. Okay, they come. Actually, to law and woman. So first, one, the first part I've ever seen, uh, there was a female that, that does one service. You know, not that does anything wrong, that she does a great job. But they like to come early or early or early or early week, John. So I have, you know, I have the little dogs, the multi, and the, and the, the, and the Yorkie. And they don't really do anything, but they're alert. They're alert dogs. They hear noise they bark. So they come in at seven in the morning. They do in my lawn. Brrrrrr. And then the dogs have got on crazy, of course, because they, they think someone's, breaking into the house. Oh, what? Since when did they start doing the lawns at seven in the morning? Is this, is this a freaking new thing? Well, then let me come at night and do it. When the sun goes down. I don't want to hear it in the morning. Tell them. Do you speak Spanish? Tell them. No, you know, I need, I need, I think, I'm hiring a groundskeeper. We bought the property across the street for my house. What's cool? Any, they have a guy there who does all the, the grounds. And I'm thinking, you know what, if I'm going to, if he does their grounds across the street, I might as well have to do all my properties. You know, I'll just hire him, you know, he's already full time with that guy across the street. But I need to speak a word to English. They got for Google Translate, which I got to tell you is pretty amazing. I can help you. I know. I need a John Romano brush up less than in Spanish. I'm going to do the same thing. We, you know, with, with the, the rain has been so wet this summer, the growth. Everything is grown like, I can't, there's no way I can keep up with this. I'm hiring a crew. Oh, yeah, you got, you can't do it yourself. The whole bank of the river is just freaking over a king and see the water. It's like, overgrown. It's not like you're admitting the feat. You're just saying, you know what? I have better uses of my time than getting out there and, and mowing, that's that you can't do it. Of course you can do it. I could do it too if I really wanted to. Well, who wants to spend three hours a day, you know, mowing the lawn and cutting stuff? I mean, I don't know if some people get put, put pleasure out of that. I have, I get pleasure out of other things that I'd rather be doing. So I don't mind paying someone to do it. I fall into that category wanting to do everything myself. Yeah, because it just kills me to pay somebody for something that I can do. Right, but think about how much more money you're making, being productive, doing something else, like doing this shower. Nice. And you know what it's, I argue with my wife, but this I got at least for the front of the house. I want to get a weekly landscape. Right. Okay, do the edging, do the weeds, the paniest stuff. Yeah. The all pan and the ash shit that's, but mindless. Not that it's, I'm looking for somebody stupid. I'm just talking about my mind is going to mind or moan or moan or long. I'm thinking about shit and then I'm going to run over my foot. But you can't be able to empty my ankle. So, so, so, so, and just, just every time I go into the, to the tool shed, I get the trim around the fucking thing that the line is off. I can't, I spend so much time digging around. Wasting, wasting time. I know. So I can do the edging and I change the blade and then I go in the belt is broken on the track. I got a little bit of a bad, you know, I got a fix. I got it, I got to go get gas, I got to move back. You oiled it, I got the blow, I got it in the net. And all of this shit breaks and who's got a fix it. So, you know, my life doesn't understand that. That is maintenance and all of this shit. It's time. Right. And if you just paid a guy 40 bucks a week to come and just mold the freaking lawn of season and blow it in the bone, done. Yeah. I don't have to worry about any of this. And then you can do the fun stuff. I like the plant, like the trees and fruit trees and I do my tomatoes. I don't want to do the stuff I don't enjoy doing. I don't want to have to do the maintenance work. That's not, and once again, if it was 20 years ago and I didn't have anything to do in my biggest, you know, the conundrum was should I go tanning first or should I eat my McDonald's meal first, so go to the gym. Then it's a different story, but now I got too much going on. And you know what, yard work in the summertime sucks because of the bugs, man. You get those nuts flying around your head. That right there, the kids just do not endure 30 minutes of nuts is worth 40 bucks a week to me. That's right there. Yeah. So, I'm very, very cool. And you know what? Yeah, please. And it's a thousand degree. Florida, I thought the summers were the same in Florida, New York. I go outside and do some just some planting and you know, I'm not really even exerting myself. And I come in a dripping sweat. I feel like I need it. I get it laid out. I'm so exhausted. The sun just drains the life out of you. And as my wife always points out, I always do it like noon with the worst possible time. Because that's what I have available. You know, it's the humidity. You're many. Yeah. I don't even know. I don't even know. It doesn't feel that bad when I'm out there. It's after what's when I come in. I hit my head. It sucks. It sucks the energy out here. I think we're just all, that's really what it is. But it really, I remember being a carpenter. You know, back at Framer back when I was, you know, the 1920 years old, you know, slinging a hammer out into Sunald. I didn't bother me. Because I was doing it every day. I used to it. Now, you know, you go out and you do it now when it's. I haven't done that in, you know, five years. I haven't exerting myself. That matter, you know. It's the human body is so weird. If you could do something like over here, you do it like this. You're lifting this thing off or carrying it over here. You do it every day. You have no problem. If you alter that by on the canics of that movement, one degree. Yeah. But it's your sore, your beat up. Everything's different. That's why you have to change up the workouts, John. That's what you know. You're bodybuilding. You're working different muscle groups. All right. One more bitch you're playing. So I, so when I first moved here, we had, there was no internet in this community. It's like a spread out community. So no one, none of the neighbors wanted to rally with me and get together and get these people to install a high fiber optic line. So I finally found one company, Century-Link business. Luckily, I have my business on my property, I have a separate building. I got them to run a line and run it a mile long to my house. Well, I thought they would have charged me a fortune. But they just snuck it into the bill. So I never choice. I was paying 1100 dollars a month for internet. 1100. And I played off the business. Obviously, I worked muscle with species, but it's ridiculous. I had no choice. I had no choice. And I know what they did. They amortized the cost of the install over three years. So three years is passed already. So my neighbor comes up to me and she's like, oh, I got high speed. Because when they ran my line, they ran another line there for the neighbor. So basically, I paid for all the neighbors to be able to get internet. But they're just now, they just, it took them about two or three years to realize that they can do that. Because then originally they're like, oh, it's fast enough. Fast enough, it was DSL John. It was like the, it was like, remember the dial-up when you used to do AOL when you were when it first came out in the 90s and you had the moment it would go, B, B, B, B, B. And that was the speed it had. You couldn't download a picture. That's how slow it was. That's what we had to do this. So my neighbor comes out to say, oh, the internet's great and how's your internet? I'm like, oh, what's your speed? Well, you know, I pay for 100, 100, 100, max, up 100, max down, which is a good speed. If you have the live stream and somebody that, he's been in 450. No, she's getting 950. 950 up and down. So what do you pay for that? She's like $65 a month. And like, what? What? $65 a month? So I don't believe her. I think they lied to me. I call up century like, that not the business, the other one, because they don't communicate obviously. Right. She's like, oh, you can hook you up, because I'm, of course you can hook me up, because I'm the hook up, right? It's already, it goes to the edge of my property. That's as far as the line goes. She's like $65 a month. I so have what's speed am I going to get? She's like $950 up and down. I said, you know I'm paying 1100, they don't know anything, because they don't, business doesn't talk to residential. So also my dogs are barking again this morning. This is yesterday was that was the long ago. Another this morning was the long guys. So I fall back asleep after the long guys leave. Eight o'clock, the dogs are barking again. So it's not the end of my front door. It's century like we're here to install the line. I say, you know, it's supposed to come full Thursday. He's like, well, we got to run the line and the people will hook it up on Thursday. I said, well, I already got a line. The like you have a line already. I said, yeah, I know like the five rest that I have fiber. He's a will let me see it. I said, we can't see it. It's in a conduit. I said, you got to come into my building. So I think I'm in the building. I showed you, we got fiber here. I said, does anyone talk to anyone at your company over there? Does anyone know what's anyone's, I never seen a confidence like this in Florida. Any other state, I would live in Pennsylvania when I was in college. It's something about the South John. I think or Florida. I don't know what it is. I think the sun may drain the logic out of people's brains. Yeah. They just, they just move at a very slow pace in the South, you know. And I mean, people, people, tireless cities giving up. We're just talking about it. So I was like, they just, everyone just throws their arms up and they'll want to work. That's what they do. I've had four people. I can put a fence around my property. No one comes back after the first visit. Oh, that's a common complaint everywhere. I'm not going to say it. Who is the head of all this? I sent out all the time and what can my construction company do? Why? When the one that comes back, you say you give me a video. You say you're going to come Tuesday. You come Tuesday. Nobody else comes. Why is that, John? Why would don't people want to work? I think what happens is they bite off more than they can chew. When you work it, when you're a small contractor, you know, you're a one, two, three men show and you're doing all the work yourself. You're working on a job now. You think, oh, I'm going to be done in two weeks. Right. And that's why I'm going to line up another job to take to start when the two weeks is up. But nothing takes two weeks. It takes four. It takes six. And then you can back up the job and then you have the another one in the funnel. And now that one's backed up and they find somebody else to do it. And then you move. So it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's never a system. When you, when you do a, when you do like more than one day stuff, like if you will, you can go in and do a job in a day or two, like a final job or something fast, that's, that's one thing. But when, when you do a protracted jobs, you know, like a fence could take a week, you know. And then, but it, but we can turn into two weeks because of the weather, because of material, because of help, because of COVID, because of you name it. So the hardest thing in the construction business is to accurately plot time and, and make it come true. Let me ask you a question now. If you're a fence company and you, all you do is fences and someone wants to hire you to do a fence. And you got a lot of fence to do and you're going to make a lot of money on the job. Why don't you're going to come back and do the fence? Because it rained three days ago and the other chin and the other fence job got delayed. And now the one you had come in between you and him is now delayed. And then two guys call in six months. Yeah, don't mean six months. I don't care. I'm just telling you on the calendar. But I understand your position because people tell me all the time. Nobody shows up, nobody shows up. But when you're actually, you know, having to deal with this shit, it's, when you got to rely on other people, employees, other people to shop, the weather, tools, not break. And I mean, it's all kinds of shit you got to deal with in that business. It's frustrating to the whole motor because they just wanted them to come back and do the job. You know, I've had guys come at and I've told them other people didn't come back and they're like, oh, we're not like, I never hear from them. They don't even give me like a proposal. It's crazy. I never did that. I always, if I was getting delayed or something, I would contact them or say, look, it's not going to be next week. It's going to be a week after. Or I'll send somebody else to do it if you want. But so I got this, I got this rooster next door to me. It's actually $2 down with the rooster comes into my name as backyard. And it's always, there's a few of them. They're roostering it up. Now the girl, the seven-year-old girl lives in that house with the owner of the roosters, she cleans snakes for me. Like I pair like the clean snakes. She's like, whoa, she cleans snakes. Like she comes to clean the snake tubs for me. Because I have so many snakes. She's like, wait down. No, no, no, no, no. She cleans the tubs out for me. She's like cleaning cages. Okay. She's into all the snakes, everything like that. So she comes in. She's like, you know, we have too many roosters. I said, I know I hear him every freaking morning. I said, they don't stop. She's like, my mom, they're starting to bat the other hands. Because I guess if you have too many roosters, they only want to do his breed all day. Kind of like a bunch of male bodybuilders, you know. And she's like, you know, do you want any of the roosters? I said to the feet to your snakes. Because you know, the big snakes will eat, you know, the leech chickens and roosters. So I'm thinking to myself in my head, like I got this evil devil on one side of the little angel on the other side of the devil's say, they eat them, feed them, get rid of these freaking roosters. You won't have to hear him in the morning anymore. And the other one's like, you can't feed a live rooster. Like in other words, if it was dead already, I wouldn't mind dangling it and give it to the snack. John Scuderry would do it. Yeah. Like I can feed a rat to a snake, no problem. So you got like a giant like boa constrictor in a cage, you're going to throw a rooster in there. Yeah, I mean, the bird is popping. We're happening, wrap it around, strangling, swallow it. Right. Well, and Logan would love to walk. Oh, I know. It would be a great video. But I always feel bad for the rooster. So I said, I can't. If you want to kill the rooster, bring it over. I'll feed it to the snake. I said, so. Yeah. Oh, you got a video. I don't want to see that. I thought I wanted to know rats are smarter than roosters. They probably are. Yeah. The rat hurt the snake. You got to be careful. Yeah, those snakes are pretty, you know what? The snakes are stupid in this one sense because if they're in shed or they're going to shed their skin or they're that in the mood to eat because sometimes they just don't want to. They'll let the rat eat them basically. They're dumb like that. But if 99 times out of 100, you put that right in everything is amazing. So it is what it is. It's funny. I love all animals. But you know, sometimes there's like, when things are too big, it becomes like it almost becomes too traumatic for me in my mind. Like a lot of people feed rabbits to the big, the big, the big python's. I'm really. What's the biggest snake that you have in captivity? I have, well, the Burmese python's get pretty big, but I don't feed them a lot so they don't they grow slow. I probably have like a 12, 12 footer, you know. They get pretty sick. They're like about that. I did a video up on my polombos python's Instagram if you on the story. If you go take a look at it, you can see a pretty big one I have. You can swallow one of your kids. Now they can't do that. But I wouldn't leave my kids alone with them, but they're very tame these things. But once again, you know, with kids you don't you can't leave around. That's why I have a separate building. So the kids don't get it. Yeah, but the kids like them. Oh, they love, they love really. Yeah, I mean they're from use by them now. Well, we'll see who as they get older really is attracted to the whole, the whole hobby if any of them who knows. Probably one of my daughters if you know, knowing you know how my life goes. I've just tried to show you some of the states, we took pictures of it. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So it's week number nine that John Ramano has no Mr. Pots cookies. Uh-oh. And of any type variety or anything. You know what the problem is? I get them, but then they're eaten so quickly between the kids, a man, that myself, Tyler, digs into them. And so they're gone like in a week. So it doesn't matter how many of you send me. John, the TN brother once or way. Yeah. Well, so what I did was I made cookies over a week and I put it in the tin. So at least I have a week on. Can you guys hear us? Maybe we should have had a make of myself. You want to see him? Yeah, let me see him. Yes. Oh, we're going to be right. Let me see you talk. Hello. Hello. Can you see? You're there, Greg. We see you. You can hear me, right? Yeah, we hear you, we see you. We're talking about Mr. Jesus cookies. I think what we should do is, I think within the, I would do it for the whole public, but I don't trust anyone to send me stuff. But maybe between you, Greg, myself, John, Mr. G and Jenny, we should all have like a protein cookie bake off, like we should all make our own protein cookies recipe and then like, you know, cross, submit them to each other and then do like a taste test or something like that. Or wherever we're just sending it to me and all face them all. Tyler can taste them all. He's like, he's an objective third party, you know? I would do it. My face is so I had to put my own cookies. I said what you should do is we should do a bake off job. We should have all the whack packers do their own cookies. Yeah, until I get a refill, I'm gonna be doing it myself. Okay. So if anybody walks into my house, Mr. G, and they open the tin and they, oh, these fucking cookies are great. Where do I get them? Well, you gotta get them right here because Mr. G, you don't send me no cookies. So I gotta just, you know, I gotta make, I gotta make my own. It's basically what happened. Oh, those things sugar like high and sugar and everything already. Yeah, they're real cookies, man. Oh, okay. If we do a bake off, it's gotta be a cookie that has protein. You're gonna have to put some- Well, what I do is I mix in some protein powder with the flour. I'll say to some I slice protein, you can put in there and then, and we'll make it that way. Because this way they're all standard. And then you could add your own cookie recipe, too, whatever. Everyone else use the same protein, because otherwise if we don't use the same protein, then it doesn't, then it's cheating. So use the same protein, and then we gotta see what your cookie recipe is. Like Mr. G, we know uses omega-3 eggs and mac and amin' that oil. I don't know what kind of flour, you know, John uses or he might that, but the fucking good I gotta tell you. I'll tell you, Mr. G's peanut butter cookies were really good, and I like the mac and amin' a mac and amin' not white chocolate. Was it white chocolate and then too? Those were really good, too. Those are not white chocolate. I'm dying to try them. Yeah. Oh, good. I like them. I wonder where is Mr. G? I'm surprised he's not mine yet. He said he's bringing someone from down here in the corner, is he? When you roll it right. That day looks like he's, I can't tell what that. George, you hear? He's with the golf course. Hey Dave, what's going on with the gym again? He texted me and he said he was bringing an old rat-pack guy from Vegas on as a guest today. Turn your phone sideways, Mr. G. You know, him and Jimmy go in these golf courses with the phone, with no reception, and then they wonder why they came here us. We came here, then, and I got it. I got it. Exam out. Hey Dave, let me ask you a question. What's with all those guys that you post that are from my, they all fucking look alike? Like that guy you just put up, he's like really jacked to shit. They all look alike. They all look alike. They say all the Italians look alike, too. No, I don't mean look alike in a face. I meant all their builds. Like if you cut their heads off to tomato, all of this thing. The genetic, it's a genetic thing, you know, all middle Eastern guys have the really good abs. You have to notice they have the lined up abs like some ear head. That's because they fuck a group, not eating food. No, I'm not talking about the alineas. I'm talking about how their abs line up. They have that perfectly like that perfect six-packs. They have to do. Yeah, but you really believe that they don't like, they're, that's genetics. I mean, it's got to be. It's a great snake. If I have a snake that has a lot of red in it and I breed everyone and the same, I breed all the red ones together. You get red, you know. If the middle Eastern guys, you know, marry someone from America or someone from Australia, you're gonna see different genetics in there, but as long as they're, you know, they're breeding within, you know, they're country, you know, you're gonna keep a small man. Yeah, but, Paul, yeah. The way I disagree with that is because most guys, you go over in the middle Eastern, you see Middle Eastern men. And they're not naturally jacked. It's different if you see a black dude. You could go down in New York City and see some crack, crack head laying in the corner, fucking, you know. And you say holy shit, look at this guy. You think? Well, the middle Eastern guys are not actually ripped, but when they die it down, they have great physics under there. Nobody's seen that. Nobody's seen that. And American guys just have good genetics. They, they stay lean, you know. What I noticed is the certain nationalities that have different thickness to their skin. I find it Latin people, African Americans, they have very thick skin. You go to like the Dorian types, you know, the northern Europeans, you know, from England, Ireland, and Netherlands, those people, the genders, they're skin gets freaking thin as pain. I'm not even talking about that. I'm talking about their structures. I'm like, you see guys, like, you know, you could see a black dude or some Hispanics. They got no fuck, they could not touch a weight. And they look like they live weights. I had a guy walking my gym after training three months. He never touched a weight. Came into gym, worked out for three months, and won a natural show. Right. I want to go out when you go out to Brazil and you see these Brazilian women with these butts. Because that's not what they have the influence. They take butt in, you know. No, forget about the button. They have butts anyway. That's a genetic trait that's in Brazil, you know. But listen, I'm gonna try to start a fucking racing here. But that's because a lot of them have a little bit of black blood in them, black people have a butt, you know what I mean? Give a black. Black people don't have a butt like the Brazilians. It's part of that. No, that's not that. That gym pulls down its down there. But Brazilians got a Dutch, they got a somewhat... Which give me the master race stereotype or we need them when we need them. No, I'm not trying to race stereotype. No, we're talking truth fear. Right. We're talking legion people have great calves and no butts. That's a well known fact, right? That's sort of the mixture of the blood dough. You could see in Brazilians have a Spain, they have Dutch, they have an Asian and a lot of them. You know what I'm saying? So they've got a lot of little things going on. Right, but when you see an Asian person, Asian people have really good calves, usually and they have no, no glutes. They have very flat butts, right? Yep, warm in. Give it to me. But you're trying to black blood in there to get big calves and big butts now. I was... I was the chicks. I was walking down the street the other day and I'm about a block half a block away. I see a black kid sweeping the sidewalk, right? And I'm looking at this kid and like, Skate looks like he's just won the Mr. Universe. I mean, Mr. America. I mean, he's like tiny ways wide back shredded. His dad's roll out, his cap delts. I'm walking up to this kid. And I was like, get closer. You know, he's a piergy. He's very young. So I go, dude, where do you train? You know what? Because I got to the most hardcore gym in the area. I never seen him. I go, where do you train? Because what do you mean train? Where do you work out? He goes, I don't work out. And I, I could, this kid could have walked off the stage. I'm telling him, he was thin. I mean, it wasn't a big dude, but proportion, structure, condition, the guy looked at a competitor. John and... I was like that. John and the deathplate. I was like that as a kid. I still, my shoulders are still broad now. And I don't even fucking work out. And I haven't done an actual shoulder exercise 10, 2003. I'm just saying, D, I've, in the middle east, if they were so genetically elite, you would see even guys when they take off their shirts, they'd have musculature to them. And I don't believe that they do. I mean, you know, I'm just looking at him. But what's the level of... Kevin Lebroni. Kevin Lebroni was not a big guy before he started to do it. Wait, let me think. But he was a hyper responder. So when he started training, his body just exploded. I mean, Flex Wheeler wasn't a big guy. Look how skinny he was when he started. His body just responded. I'll go to that. But it was a little guy, Ashkenani, or whatever the fuck is named me. I heard that he was at one point when he came out and competed in the Olympic. He looked all super jacked and shit. But he was only training for like five years. Like five years ago, he was like, Randy wasn't training that long. You didn't know what he was doing. Yeah, Randy was like, fuck, three years? Yeah, yeah, what he did. He did a hyper responder. But it's got to be more than that. Because that's why every American guy goes to CoA puts on 20 pounds of fucking muscle. They don't all do that. It's some, there's nothing, there's no drugs coming to play, but it's not drugs. There's a genetic component to everything. I look, I did a concept when a guy last night. He's 82 years old. He started powerlet. He never lifted away. I went to high school in him. Yes, he smoked for 60 years. 60 years of pack a day. He drank alcohol almost every day. He played pool. He was like a guy. He didn't do anything athletically. The guy, when the doctor look at his extra area of his lungs, he said, I can't believe you don't have anything wrong, you'll once. His dad lived to 99 as mother lived to 96. He started powerlething at 77. He's got all these records that he said. The guy looks amazing. He never worked out his whole life. He didn't start to 77 years old. The guy will probably live to 120 because he's got genetics. Nothing but 60 years. He can't do anything. He knows that. He just had 60 years worth of freaking injuries chasing him right now. He's smoking Johnny. He has no damage to his lungs. How do you explain that? He's trying to do his butt. His muscles. I know people look. I have a friend of mine. His mother died a one cancer. She never smoked to cigarette the day in a life. And he's talking to his second. He's talking to his smoke. Andy Kaufman, same thing. And I'm not saying that. I think you're missing a point. I'm saying at least when you again here in New York, you could go down. You see in Times Square, you'll see, you know, homeless black men. And I have no shirts on. I'll be like, do this guy looks like a gazelle. His fucking tiny waist abs, pecs. Every little muscle on the back. You don't see that in the Middle East. I know people are going to say, if I don't do this. I don't know. How many times have you been to the Middle East? I was like, you said it for them. I'm saying. I mean, it's a legit question, Greg, because you're generalizing. I'm sure of your soil like these guys that build the pyramids. You know, when they were building the pyramids, I'm sure they were shredded to with no shirts. Oh, no, where? I bet you, I bet you if you went, I bet you if you went to Dubai and walked around on the beach or not, but you would see it at completely different places. I just don't see it. I see it, Defam. Just don't say, I'm saying to you, these guys are so fucking like the digger from zero to hundred and they either do a hyper respond or is true that they're doing something to quit because every fucking American bodybuilder wants to go. What? What? Look at horse racing. Why? Look at horse racing. Why are the thoroughbreds all the Arabian stallions? Why are they so, why they so much faster than all the other horses? Because the bread for that. Exactly. From 100 years ago, they did. Right, they're, right. I mean, but that's exactly what happened. When you're in a population where you have to, in order to survive, you have to have a certain, you can't have a, you have to be able to eat a little bit of food, but yet still stay lean and active and in a hot population. In Africa, people develop, you know, developed differently than in the Nordic parts of the world where people hold more body fat because body fat in the Nordic parts where it's cold is a survival advantage because otherwise you, if you have no body fat in Finland, you die, you know, back in the other thing. The other thing is that in that part of the world, the religion and the belief system is not very supportive of something like body building. No, what about the fasting, the fasting helps you to lose fat, maybe that's what it is. You know, but what I'm saying is you got, you're making a generalization, you know, I'm not, I'm asking you, is it, I'm not saying that people themselves have seen why is it that everybody goes to Kuwait? It's those guys. I think that's it. Yes, he drugs that, Jai Greg. Yeah, they got, they got a place where they can live, eat, leave your tummy. And that's all they got to look, the best athlete, the best body builder is the one that's going to be able to concentrate the hard. You're a move. If you're a move, that's why big Miami can't one and you structure his life is wake up, eat, train, sleep, wake up, eat, train, sleep. If that's all that you have, you removed everything else, and you got for drugs, everybody's paying your bills, you got you and eat all the, whatever you got, it's all taken here. A lot of American body builders got that here. Oh, Christ. There's a lot of, there's got a lot of, there's got a lot of guys don't work, they don't work here. You know, I mean, a lot of guys don't work, but nothing's provided for them. I'm not studying in Korea, but I'm saying, they're actually, they're like, I think you better. So, he's just going there and subscribe to the, how could you not gain 20 pounds of those? Okay, so you're agreeing with what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying. I'm saying, don't give me that shit that they were born like that. It's, if, how come, if you took big Grammy and you, you started out by saying, why did these guys so wrapped in lean by nature, certain people? You're chasing, you're changing a tune. No, you shouldn't have done that. So when you turn off, they're not. You say, why are they all look the same? They all, everyone and those guys are super jacked. My followers, viewers look the same. I guess, I bet you, people would have said, why the old guys in gold gym, Venice back in the 90s and 80s look the same, right? Come on. Listen, I'm saying, I'm gonna, I'm gonna mafia gangsters look like Christ, listen, you I'm missing one of trying to say, I'm saying you I know why I feel I think it's the fucking gym out there with the drugs and all that shit because if you brought big Rami here and he wasn't able to fucking I'm talking about what is it called tiny ramping yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah if you imagine if you had a run the hustle here do you know if I'm gonna ask him to say Diego from Egypt he didn't get losing his eyes because he was a it was a big fuck but NASA was a big new I believe that NASA was genetically elite I don't think some of these guys are genetically I think the old drugs you know what's wrong on an island and it'll be fucking p.m.e. Herman you're in me look at me I fucking fucking wait I haven't done shit I fucking throw kids off or should go and a doctor an hour after with dumb at the show what I'm saying it to you is that if you have a natural bill I get it you know what I mean but I'm saying I don't think these guys I think I just think the world drugs I don't know you know you see how these guys when they come off look at my staff a moment come off you would never even know if you saw I'm walking in the street you would never know he was even a bodybuilder you know what I mean but yeah but great everyone's using the same drugs though you know that yeah but we don't I don't know about over there you can get of what I hear everything is fucking you know well the difference is Greg it's not illegal there if it's not illegal you can buy it and you don't have to worry about the ramifications of it and there's not going to be a little bit of you know we're not only that but you're getting legit shit that's right over here you're getting a shit to some guy trying that shit's made that's not made no fucking you provide it when you provided your services back in the day I mean you were providing you probably 99% real stuff and that's why guys grew from it right well I got stirriest shit was just a real day yeah I say you guys had the American stuff it was the best stuff I had that stuff too that's why us 90 bodybuilders were jack baby drugs were better that's what we were jacked we were on a big rammy diet yeah you know I mean you know what I had I had guys in Mexico that I had you know put under a similar you know set of circumstances they had very little to do they just had a really trained and eat and dedicate you know it makes a tremendous difference when you remove a lot of those stresses from from an athlete so I don't know you can say necessarily that they all look the same I think that if you put anybody in that situation they would look the same because that's when you just said the same thing when I'm trying to say is it cause they're genetically elite or is it because they're in a fucking gym that's like shoveling fucking juice down the throat in a food bag it's both we listen what you guys got to understand you guys watching this you you you watchers you supporters you fans you know what I'm talking about bro come on you guys got to go to work you got to bust your nut you know Jay Coliver with train taking nap at home make sure his food was done somebody be cook good his food's girl with shave his back his ass you go back to the gym get a second workout in go back home taking nap you know what I mean eat some more food these guys over here they're not fucking it's not like our shit fuck man I got to be back to work they don't work they're idea work it is personal training which really is fucking you selling juice a little bit on the side you know there's not a pro bodybuilder who hasn't made a little babanya you know I just had to make a little babanya had to make a little uh schedule by selling some babanya that's telling you it's a nobody it's just that's the way it works it's a water land these guys ain't they're not fucking bust in their hold you know working jobs and shit like you're Dave it Dave if you had to go back to being a Dave plumber you were in the 90s when you when I knew you had fucking massive you wouldn't you wouldn't you certainly wouldn't fucking you know you wouldn't be able to do hefty shows am I right or wrong I'm feeling very dirty from this conversation I had to put my ass down I just want to say I want to add this one thing it's both it's both you don't take somebody without the good genetics and we know that who do you on okay so I know they're only getting and that is in oxygen gym and quit you're only getting the best that's why they're there I know the Schmodre gym rattle another chance in hell because he's got no calves or nobody for arms or no back or whatever he ain't gonna go to it's not going to quit they're not gonna take them I understand you have to genetics we all know that you know what I'm saying but I'm gonna go Dave if you right now had to get humongous again right let's say God said listen save your kids or your family you have to get humongous again and you know that you could do this Dave I know you don't want to do that to your body and it's just your organs and I'm opening up carbon dioxide gym I'm in high toxic training we do there and it's gonna be a brand new franchise here in the US I'm gonna have all the big ram you will come stay I got the idea from Johnny say I have all this money I'm gonna spend it I'm not going to I'm not giving it to to the kids I'm spending carbon dioxide gym coming into 2021 all right if you had if you had to be humongous again you wouldn't have time to be doing all these shows you have to do it and when I said Jay Kohler used in this example I like Jay it's all the body voters are like that I would not I would not be able to do what I did back in the 90s and early 2000s if I had a family with three kids no no no let's I'm saying if God came down and put a gun you had said listen to say the families life I want you to get you out again if you had to do it you wouldn't be able to do all these shows and do all the trainings you're doing all that stuff because you'd have to do a lot more focus absolutely sure right am I right wrong yeah absolutely I wouldn't want to do it it would be distracting to me right well you wouldn't be able you know you wouldn't have time because you got to go to the gym in the morning right didn't you got to get your food you got to take a nap you got to come back what I would do is if it was if this if it was this we create this little fantasy scenario I would stop doing as many shows I would do one rant a day I would do one thing a day on a video camera I'd upload to YouTube and that would be it I couldn't I wouldn't want to focus on anything else but that but you also wouldn't be able to put the time in you have to do one or the other you wouldn't be able to do to you'd be sitting here going off fuck I got to you to meal you'd be in the mail where you're talking yeah being a gym fucking I feel like I just need you know as he's on the Instagram eating his food yeah I think there's I think there's an element of time gone by you know life is a lot more complicated now than it was 30 years ago you're right you know I mean 30 years ago in Venice you could get an apartment for you in a place to live for 200 bucks a month and you spend another 200 bucks a month on food and you could make your whole nut work at a door somewhere so you know it's not like that today that's another that that and back then I mean what guys were training you know six hours a day Greg you know I was one of them but the thing is those guys back then there were doing a lot of the game for me get some guy with a lot of scuttle right and you don't give a shit here make sure you go to the gym today right 30 minutes opposing to them you know probably naked in these guys we're you know get a nice little paycheck there right when people listen I don't mean I don't mean it this your god or anything but Arnold Schwarzenegger always talks about how he laid breczen he did one job one you know what I'm saying you'd be that dude Arnold Schwarzenegger you really believed that he him and fucking Franco went around building houses no that's new old you know chimney in a wall I think that's all it that's all he ever built and I didn't tell you something that fucking guy okay I won $1,000 for the Mr Olympian so how did he survive he told me what he said they used to go to with these pool parties if these rich guys houses up in the middle of that shit and he said you know Arnold would disappear into the house with the guy you know a half hour later he'd come out with you know 500 bucks you know I know some I know some of the guys that used to fucking give him the money they're dead now but I'm just a gold man back there you remember this guy named Gabe no a grace shit he was a he was the sea is the sin he used to facts people pictures of Arnold Lacy rich Lacy rich I know the name I think he's the facts pictures are Arnold to everybody you know like like out of pool make it or yeah I've seen I've seen the one pitch we've I think we all seen that one pitcher and he ended up getting remembered he was they found them dead of an insulin over those oh yeah it's just like the fucking when he ran for a governor and shit they were fucking people were like kind of getting you know because there's a lot of people his pictures were circular I know a guy was out there with wage Bennett and he said he was going oh I don't want to say his name on the side I know Dave you're friends with him and he's saying how we opened up a draw at the guys house over there in England and it would pitch his a Tom Platts and chaps you know what I mean and they're hanging out and all this stuff and it wasn't these guys we don't know this is for sure this is Greg's opinion I don't know what he and this is true I'm thoroughly Greg's opinion you're not from you it I did it once I did it once I didn't get naked but what I did was I blew thoughts in this guy's ass I did this show what did you do what did you do this this guy I don't another body brother who I'm really close with okay he was my buddy he called me said you want to make some money and he had this rich guy okay and it was it was Andrew Chrisbow who was a famous art dealer and he was in prison once for murder and the guy paid me with a check tool which is really crazy yeah this master and I did this I did this show for generation and we went into this room right I get over there in the master and it's a great deal with the police had on his fucking clock hanging out and shit and we go on I go in a room and my friend is in there and my friend is doing all this fucked up shit he's hitting him with a fucking paddle and all this right the guy's naked on an ex like this this and his ass is facing us so when I had to do right was the master tells me okay he goes you got a fucking I'm gonna give it his darker it's a darker and he looks syringes they're long dark like this and he would put a lighter to it like this make it cherry red and I would blow it this it would it would write into the guys ass and the guy would scream it was crazy and then he'd go you got to do it yet and I would do another and I was starting to sweat you know I mean I was like getting nervous because but you could actually smell the stuff like there was like burnt you could smell this skin was burning and shit it was the most fucked up thing but he loved it the guy was getting on on the master with him now what hello with the mystery question what what did they do you there for to do that it doesn't seem like it was like I said they had a bodybuilding they were because we were even a master was flowing me a master you know they were they had a fetish for big mosquitos when you know I'm giving you the fucking name of the guys they was Andrew Chris Boll. And how much did you make for that from throwing blow and darts up his ass? Three 300 bucks not a lot. Well you know they were hot darts you know maybe if they were cold darts you would have been 500. This was back in like 1990 my just had a kid you know I mean I was moving to gym I was kind of needed some skyddle and my I close friend I'll tell you to his office sit to be broke you want to make a couple bucks come with me you know what I mean and that's how they have what what's that yeah it was in the ass of him but I got an article on him right here Chris Bob. Are you f***ing he went to prison looking to kill the guy during that SNM a guy named Wayne LaGaro she killed them and he went to prison for it. Andrew Chris Bob. Yeah Andrew Chris Bob. Yeah. He's got to be like fucking 80 now who's old when I did it and he had a master to master like something you see right now I'm a fucking movie he had chap saw this fucking cock was hanging down just trapped across here a baseball like a like a leather fucking pre-spaceball type at Studge and it should look just a big handlebar must have he's only one time murder suspect that's it he looked like Freddie Mercury. Studge is going to make sure this guy has been in killer awaits parole ruling after fire to kill murder. Yeah and he was prolly he this is after I met him after. A various you see the story after after that murder he was because he became he used to be like a supposedly a dom now he's in submissive dude he was fucking they were calling me master J. O'Connor shit I don't want to take anything away from Mr. Did you see these things Greg and we're pointing up oh you can't I'm okay. No I can't see him. I think that's him that's an entry Chris Bob. It is an art dealer I will think is fucking he he it was on the corner of 14 street and 11 to have and you he had a bed like art gallery and you walk in there it is like I'm probably I should have fucking house the painting because there was like fucking means of paintings all in like boxes probably worth a fortune. Oh dude he's he's like a fucking billionaire and it like I was 300 fucking dollars. You should have gotten on his payroll you should have been working. You haven't didn't matter dude I I gave them other fucking scars I was hitting them with I shot you can do that all day long man Greg. If you if you didn't use the blog on you'd probably get more money. But the master was making the fucking thing cherry right so not only when the dart it was like a syringe. Did you ever see a guy that looked remotely like Steve Blackburn dressed up as a woman over there? No then I don't like that he can you remember Mr. G and Bob and Spals insisted that they saw a black went outside of studio 54 in the dress when he still had the mustache. Yeah. No I don't believe me. Hey dude I believe. I don't know. I don't know. Yeah. We got a verify a lot of story tell us too so I don't know if I believe anything. Why is it Mr. G talking what the hell are you that George? He's in the corner he's been in the corner all day. I always in Vizwa I don't see him. It just says something. This is Mr. G. This is Mr. G. Yeah I was master G. He was master G. Yeah. Yeah. That was the sickest thing though if you saw that shit the guy had a fucking he was on that. Sure Mr. G is Mr. G. He's Greg so maybe we call you master G from that one. And I shouldn't have said anything. I don't know the president. Oh, so I might have a dip but my partner is just saying his name. F fucking my partner Paul was the guy. And we always talk Paul does everything. What do we know? What are you talking about? Yeah we used to do it. He was the crazy motherfucker. He would do all that shit. I know guys that would do that. You know what dudes are in the same thing. They guys were a level of girls. They're like feats of strength. Right. You know that. But you know what I'm talking about Dave. What if the female body bones going there they lift up. They're lifting parry. Yeah. They're fates. Right? Well the hand it's called the handroomers. They know they do the fucking they're into feats of strength. You know. Put me in a headlock. Make me faint. And it's just the boy there should put it on bar on him. And it got on my face. And it'll wake up. Here's fucking his and not 100 dollars. Do it again. Oh my god. I've been being killed the guy. I actually. Greg is that part we shouldn't do it on the dinner. Living real floor. I'm going to do shins of horror. The wrestling mat. They should put the furniture against the wall and roll out the wrestling mat. Yeah. And then he's guys would come in and you know wrestling. He would like some legs, scissors, a room, you know, and the neck and they pass and they stop it on the. He, he made tell him. We're going to be banging on the bit. But don't let go. That's and they make a safe for it. He's not like banging on the back. Stop it. She won't stop. And he. And you hear this shit, you know, through the wall. He bang smashed the goggles in the floor and then bang it. You know, and he's screaming and shit. And then she's like, you know, she's got a wigs drying up out of the pack patio with the romantic heads and these guys are coming and going. And she's lifting them up throwing them around smashing them legs, scissors, and them in the head all for fun. We knew this one. She was she used to do what she was the lifting carry like Queen. She would have she could lift anyone up. I know a million of those girls probably my friend is the day. T a fannington. She was like six one six two. Did you remember her? Yeah. You remember Chris Luthke? I'm sure Nicole Bass probably did something that too. Cause she was very strong. She did it to me. What time to call Bass? Knuck up from behind me and put me in a headlock and lifted me off the ground. And then threw me on her shoulder. Yeah, I started doing that to Troy more once too. I was like he was like a like a like a dwarf like she threw him up in the air. He threw me. She threw she put me in a fucking headlock. Knuck all bass from behind. I didn't know she was there. And she was fucking around. It'll play around. And did you get excited? And it, no, not at all. I'm not into that shit. But I could give you stories. You know the story. So who is the best lifting carry queen of all time? You know, think the most popular. You know what? Anybody who competed in a woman's extravaganza? All those fucking girls. Yeah, they were all that. Even Tazzy, all the neighborhood fucking. People in the street will be able to give us quite the one that I know. I know, dude, I know stories with chicks with fucking knocking a guy's door to guy with open a door. She fucking crack him in the jaw. And he think his money. He got, she took $1,200 from this guy. And she, he opened up the door. She fucking hit him with a right. She dropped them. You know, he gave it to eat, gave it to $1,200. And she, she leaves. But a time, she told me by the time I made it out to the fucking street to where the car was, he called me back to that was on unbelievable. Come do it again. I'll give you more money. You, you guys know how those schmows are. They're fucking nuts like that. They're crazy. They're obsessed. I'd love to tone names my God in heaven. I used to get a show. When I was with Shelley Beaty, she used to get mail from these guys. His handwritten letters. They were the most pathetic things you have ever read in your entire life. It was a great call. It could have waited for her to go to the freaking mail button, her mailbox and get the mail. They would be money in it. This one guy, this one kid would send cash. You know what he was talking about? He would go on these long rants about cigarettes and alcohol and pornography, you know, and then put in $100, $50. And then it's another guy with a bag and a cellar on the way. I got $1,000. He went up to like $1,500 for a fucking pair of all. Yeah. Fucking son. Oh yeah, John, you could go get a pair under where white dress would it pay off panties and send it in a box and some guy will spit it in your closet. I'm just gonna put it in a day and then I send it. Oh, you got another one I'll pay for it. No, but listen, dude, I got the sickest fucking mail. Dave, I got a show you this. I still got it. Some fucking fan from the Philippines who was a bodybuilder sent me pictures of him with guns and then his girlfriend naked with guns, right? Right. And it did pictures ever of Filipino shoot herself with like heroin and she's off. Dude, I got it. I'll show it to you. Yeah. I still haven't. They said to me like fucking, don't you see how long ago was that? Like fucking 15, 20 years ago, I got that fucking thing. Wow. It's this joke broke. It's sick. There's a lot of sick shit. He sent me a lot of pictures with a lot of crazy shit and with a lot of. Really? But it. And you saved it, too. I saved it because I couldn't believe I fucked up. When I did the movie with Chris Bell, bigger stronger faster, I had a garbage bag full of fucking, now kind of mail. Oh, real? Big black garbage bag and he, they filmed it and he was, he filmed all segmented. I think he put a little piece of it in where they show him reading something about the mail. I'll tell you, I have more than a garbage bag. I had two garbage bags. It was the sickest shit these people. Somebody's dude, I had one more thing. Why would they send it to you? Because they, you know, the ram of freak and I give crazy stores that they think, yo, I got one for you. I got a thing for you. Oh, I said listen to me. I think it for the mags. There's a lot of jail. This one guy said to me a jail. He's freaking out because he's got to stop himself from killing people because this is in jail because they just brought some kid into jail. The kid was like 110 pounds. He was a little twink and he said, he had a shootout with the cops, a cop shot him. And now he has a colostomy bag. And the fucking, and he said, the other inmates were rape and I'm in fucking him in the holes. Oh, I still, hey, you think of fucking Kenya. Chris Bell read that and he goes to me, I can't put this in a movie, but this is the sickest fucking shit I've ever had. They were rape in the sky in the hole with a colostomy bag. Somebody to misty tell you. And it's this kid and yet a cell wants that a kill a kill. I'm going to kill all those rapists for doing it. The context would, would stand somebody and then they fucked the, the stab wound. Really crazy crazy crazy people. Well, I can not sick of that guy there is hell except now they're like, you're running out. It's standing in the wall. It's not something they get a hard on. It's stabbing the guy because for me adrenaline. Yeah, well, it's the dominance. It's the power. But let me tell you something. You live in New York, well, then on a gel number whatever. I just said they let people out. You need to get real people. People are leaving New York by the truckload. But you didn't even get bail here unless you sell steroids. Then you go to the toilet. You're right. You're right. I talked to Rick Collins and he says, there is he goes, they get it. And they go right back out. He goes, it's the biggest problem. The cops are having his dead. So whatever they're doing, they'll be back in 30 minutes. Yeah, but you do this a guy here. Just a fucking guy in New York. They arrested over 100 times for bank robbery. 100 times they let him out. And the same day he'll rob a bank that he got arrested. And they get him again. He's not very good at it if he's getting caught. But no, it's the blusher. It's the blusher in Cuomo. Do Democratic fucking bullshit. All right, no politics. All right, I want to end the show. I want to end the show with, I want to just do a little remembrance. Because Mercury Morris Clareborn, who was, I believe, second place at the 1999 PC Nationals in the Bannerway class, he looked at a little mini flex wheeler. He passed this past week. Maybe you can probably put a picture up from my Instagram. I'm posted one. What he died of, Dave's. You know, he had a stroke 10 years ago evidently. And he was in a wheel chair as a quadriplegic fatteneers from what I from his family wrote on the show. No, you guys do him, right? I know a Charles Clareborn. No, not Charles Claremon. This is Mercury. No, Mercury. No, Mercury. A little guy. Yeah, very, very, very. Right, Dave. He had like a mullet. Yeah, jury throws. What, what do you guys know about him? Can you talk about him? So we could kind of honor him a little bit. He was an off. He was a light boy. He was like a writer. He was legendary in the Cangins in LA. Now, what did he do? Was he like, did he ride fast? I mean, what was he? He was a really smart bike fast in the Cangins, like a GP racer. He was really good. It says, it's a Zuki Honda's to Cadi's. That's what I said. Everything but a Harley. Yeah. Crazy. I wonder why you never competed. He stopped competing. Do you know why John? I don't know. I mean, because he was like a lightweight and stuff. I don't really smell. He was a little bit. He had to, I don't think he had. I think he knew that he'd have to like take a lot more shit. He knew a lot of people were going to do that. He would have been a good class and bodybuilder. Class of the Zuki. Well, look at texture, Jackson. Dexter Jackson started out. He was a lightweight bodybuilder. Banner was Bentley. Banner was. Was he Banner was he actually that low? Uh-huh. 130 or 135 pounds. What he wouldn't, he won the nationals. I thought it was a lightweight. Right? He won the North Americans as a lightweight, but he was, and remember, light heavy weights up to 198 pounds. He was about 184 for that show. That's how good he was. Yeah, but he was worth it. When it before that, when he was quality, when his first contest, he won, it was a Banner. He was Bannerweight. They didn't want to Southern states overall as a middleweight. Right. So, that's the one I think I remember. The Southern states as a middleweight. I know that he was really small, like light. And then look, he had free key genetics. He always had crazy muscle separation and just like, like, he was a fun boy. I remember the way, but I thought it was going to be a lean. Yeah. I remember being like that little Jerry Crowley had to fucking mull it. Like Jerry Crowley. That was Mercury Clairborn. Yeah. Right. And he had to light eyes. But his name was Mercury. That was his nickname. Morris. Morris Clairborn. More okay. Yeah. He was a nice guy. Yeah. Trash tennis. Gold? Yeah. I met him backstage at one of the fuckers shows. Oh. I don't know where he trained. And that I couldn't tell you. But I remember him. He was small. Yeah. A lot of guys, you know, he was 60 years old, you know. So he's probably the same age as you guys. He must have been, you know, contemporaries with you. Oh, how dare you. He was. Well, you know what I mean? We're getting to an age now, guys, where it's not just bodybuilding related deaths anymore. It's actually people die of old age, you know, at 60 years old. Hey. I'm 60. No, I know. But I'm saying we're in good health, luckily. Oh, I know. But they're not. I'm not going to die of that. People have died at 60 years old. I mean, that's that's that's the side. I mean, people get diseases. They have drugs, heart attacks, cancer. Hopefully, our lifestyle now is a healthy lifestyle. It'll prevent us from having to succumb to some of these, you know, chronic the buildative diseases like, you know, the heart disease and stuff like that. But there are normal people that kind of went back to just living normal lives that, you know, we're eating right, we're taking care of themselves. Maybe in the, they succumb to you. That's the genetics. It's genetics. Because you, you know, you could eat shit and live to be a fucking hundred years. Yeah, but I think if you eat right, you train, you exercise, just keep, you know, you take care of yourself. You have a much better chance of living longer without disease. That's the case. My mother ate organ meats in all that shit. She died of pancreas cancer in her six. Wow. Wow. And we don't know if that's what caused it. She might have had a bad G too, that just kind of kicked off. And my mother died of caveat cancer 42. I don't know if you're a mother. Yeah, 42 years old. No way. What? No way. I didn't know your mother. Yeah. Yeah. Same thing with my mother, pancreas cancer. That's crazy when you outlive when your parents, like if your mother came alive today, it'd be older than her. Yeah, old and her. Isn't that crazy? Yeah. It's, I mean, I'm glad I made it. It was a little nerve-wracking. Even my sister, I'm sure, probably up until that age. We were all like, oh, you know, we're going to be, you know, have the same fate. But the truth is that, you know, I live a completely different lifestyle the way I take care of myself and, you know, the supplements. They didn't know anything about nutrition, about eating back then, you know? Right. No, what you mean, a little calling me. All right. Well, let's wrap this thing up. I'm sorry, Mr. G. didn't couldn't join us. And then Jimmy, the bowl may be next week though. They'll kick in. But I, this was a good show. I feel like it was therapy for me because I was like stress-statt. It was too much crazy stuff going on. I went through all my, oh, my aggravation. That's because of my fucking story that blown darts and that's right. That's right. That really did lie. That gave me a smile for the rest of the day. I'll think that, no one can complain about their life. They've got to up the bubble way better than the, uh, Colossity backstory. I'll play that much. So I'll try to envision the darts instead, you know, for the rest of the day. Thanks, guys. I love you guys. I'm Dave Palermo. Here with John Romano. Great Valentino. And of course, Tyler Shore. We'll see you next week. I love you, guys. Love you, guys.

Ok no further ride without posture. Great 3.ively.

那請你一套

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car cocktail. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday July 6th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you follow the financial news, you're here for pastors talking about our current economic situation as being in a bubble that could be on the verge of deflating at any moment. And that's why the savvy investor tries to position themselves to be bubble proof. Almost like what Chonsey Wilson is doing with his Chicago pro-prep. A little birdie told me that last year's junior national champ is planning to make his pro-day viewing classic physique in Chicago a few weeks from now. We're hoping to do his own version of bubble bursting for everyone else in the lineup. Late we've seen a lot of rookies come in and have success from day one in classic. So if Chonsey is one of the next in line, this could be the perfect opportunity to get himself on the map. Right now, there are a lot of fans and athletes who really looking forward to this year's New York pro for a lot of reasons, especially with this year's contest being so important in terms of qualifying for the Olympia. And from what I understand, Milan shot, I guess hoping this year's contest will be one to help them punch his ticket through the big show. A lot was another one of the international athletes who was supposed to compete in Tampa, but couldn't because of travel restrictions. But a few days ago, Milan announced on his social media that he was aiming to compete at the New York pro a few weeks from now if he can manage to get everything in order. But that feels like a big if right now. There are so many variables to account for that's almost impossible to know how these things might look in a few weeks. But if everything does end up falling into place, Milan's someone who could be a dark horse top for contender. Certain professional sports are star-driven leagues. Basketball and football definitely top that list here in America. Even though bodybuilding is in a team sport like they are here, I'd say that it's definitely driven more by individual stars like Hotting Schopen more than either one of those two I just mentioned. But here's the thing about star-driven leagues. Fans actually want to see the stars compete. And that's what drives the economic engine of these things. Even if you're a die-hard fan of your sport, you're still not tuning in to watch the role players. The same way you are if you knew that they were all stars in the lineup. That's why we need guys like Hotting on stage this year. He's a star and that means he's a draw. Someone needs to figure out something here because you can't have a star-driven league without its stars. It just doesn't work that way. And finally, we're ending today's show with some important news about the late Luke Sand though. As some of you may already know, Monday would have been Luke's 30-second birthday. And we reminded of that by the hundreds of posts and messages from Luke's friends and fans all of social media. But for me, and a lot of other people I know, the most impactful words came from a post-made on Luke's Instagram account by his family. In the message Luke's family ended the speculation about his cause of death. It's been swirling around for the last few months by saying Luke ultimately passed away from a heart attack. Even now, sensitive to this subject is, I don't think this is the time or the place to offer up any commentary on this. But I think the best thing we can all say is happy, belated birthday to Luke, who's a great man, a great friend, and a great father. You're truly missed by friend. And that does it. The other edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypal Lumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning! On day polimbo and today is Friday, January 31st, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. People like to say it's not where you start, it's where you finish, which is mostly true. But that doesn't make where Sam pierces starting off his prep for the season, any less impressive. This week, Sam announced on a social media that he was officially 20 weeks out from his season debut. Which should put him, well, on stage sometime in late May or early June, based on a quick look at my calendar. Sam's someone who might not be a household name yet, but he is a really talented bodybuilder. As we've seen so many times in the past, so I wouldn't put it past him to have a strong mid-season run because he's more than capable of making it happen. It can say something crazy, like 90% of the ocean still is yet to be explored. But that being said, I'm pretty sure that even out there in the deep blue mystery, scientists won't be finding anything that looks like Rafa Brandeo anytime soon. Much to everyone's surprise on Tuesday, Rafa dropped a surprise check in via Instagram that managed to stir up some controversy for the next 24 hours. Somehow Rafa managed to emerge as one of the big winners of the offseason this year. But I think the goal coming into this year has to be earning a trip to Vegas because that's what solidifies him as one of the top tier guys. Right now, there are probably less than a handful of athletes who we can look at and say, yep, I expect him to be in the first classic Vizzie call out at the Arnold. And no matter who else you want to toss into the conversation, to me, Steve Lorace has to be near the top of the list. George Peterson was the only one who beat him last year, but George is not competing, which means it's Steve has to come in here as the number one contender. Add that to the fact that he's coming in more rested than at any other point in his career, which makes an even more dangerous. And now you've got the perfect storm. This could be a career changing moment for Steve Lorace, but it's still on him to capitalize on the moment. I'm not sure you guys have seen the new statue in more to-liesy hotby shooting. It's pretty bad asses for our sports monuments go, but early in this week, hotby posted videos to a social media that show a behind-the-scenes look at how the crew constructed the 10-foot piece. Created by a team of local artists. Honestly, outside of Arnold's iconic statue in Columbus, this has immediately become one of the coolest pieces of body, building sculptures that I've ever seen. So if there are any art majors out there, still trying to figure out what they're going to do for their final project this semester, I'm sure we can find some room outside my studio if you're ready to commission a new piece. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the April Lumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

10th and 9th You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lomble Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents every muscle What a deal What jazzy Welcome to another episode of heavy muscle Radio on Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito on this July 16th 2018 evening and Chris This is a late one for us we're recording very late but better late than never We have to wait till everyone goes to sleep and disappears from our house Thanks It's like we've broadcasted from out of space It's something it's so late It's like mission impossible Bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb Kids are gone to bed We're gonna do it We're gonna do it We're gonna do it You're kidding That's kind of like I got like a high tension wire and it sounds room It's a dip toe I don't like the worst Leaving the room quietly I make a lot of noise I bang into things But if you If you make like I'm I creek in the floor board See wake up Is that you? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You try not to move, right? You try not to move a breathe, don't breathe. What you breath, what you breath deep. Say, how do you guys become, how do you all<|tr|> become bank robbers? It's incredible. What was the skill sneaking out of babies' room? Yes, when they're, you know, you try not to wake them up. Right? Right? You don't even move, and you'll stay in a frozen spot for like six minutes, right? Oh, just did not have to go lay back down and wait for a sleep again. Absolutely. Yep. Yeah. Unbelievable. So, yeah, we had a, it was pretty fair. I wouldn't say a super quiet weekend in the pro bodybuilding world, but we had a quiet weekend. We had that one show in Portugal. I didn't even know the show was taking place. The Portugal Pro. Yep. And, uh, how do you shoot? And, came out of nowhere. You know, he's, he's, he's, he's the guy like we don't know where he's going to compete next because he's, he's got to get a visa to go compete in different places and it's very hard for Iranians to go anywhere. I mean, I think I thought Canada was easy, but evidently from what I understand, it's not easy to go to Canada for more people telling me it's just as hard as the United States. So, hiding went to a Portugal and he cleaned up there one straight first, being a very good, Nick was volia. I don't know if you, uh, they both look good, but Nick was, issue is the structure, right? He's, he's, he's, looks like somebody hit him on the head a little bit with a hammer. So it like, I don't know, something's off. There's nothing really off with the structure, um, but he doesn't have tremendous flow. He's a little like heavy and ass heavy. Uh, take it the funny, um, what does he do? What does he do? Yeah, he's got freaky muscle, which people are going to love. Um, but he got, you know, he's, he's, he's, put it this way. He was freaky last year, not as freaky as this year. And I said, someone sent me a picture and they said, have you ever seen so much muscle on a little short guy and I said, well, it's not that impressive and they like, oh, you're such an idiot, nice to walk listen. He's going to be competing in North Carolina. He's either going to win it and go straight into the Olympian B top three. This is a prediction date. How close is this? Or he's going to North Carolina against, uh, Craig Richardson and who's the other guy of two, 12. He's now open guy. He's really killer for the Z from Slovenia. So, you know, when you went up against the, I know he's talking about. So I said, he's either going to get first this weekend in North, uh, North Carolina. And he's going to write his hype train into the top three. You'll be this year. This was last year. Or more than likely, he's going to run up against like a Craig Richardson and then the sky will be Craig. Craig was second the sky was for us. I forget his name. Come on. He loved him. Dave the size was he where we stuck in the jumbo at the North Carolina, to 12 last year. Oh, you know, you know, I know you talked about Nicholas Nick Vail over the guy's name was third. I said, or he's going to end up third place because he's going to go up against people with a lot better flow, a lot better structure and surprisingly, when they say next to him, they're going to look like they have as much muscleism. And that's exactly the way it went down. He got very Craig at second and deservingly the guy who won the New York pro last year. Oh, no, no, no. He got seconded to New York for after that. The guy won the North Carolina, the North Carolina. I can't believe you can't remember. Yeah, I moved up to the open. I know what his name is. I, I don't have it like a like a mental moment right now. Google it somewhere. You're supposed to come up with these on me. Come on. The listeners want to know who was the guy besides Craig Richardson, who beat him last year. It was perfect because the kid had the super X frame, the white guy from Slovenia. And, and, you know, he went up against Craig's crazy frame when Craig's in shape and Craig was in tremendous conditions. He went to the show. Yeah, we went shot at him. So it was me lawn, then Craig and then Nicholas. So the knock, the only knock on neck is not the muscle, not the density, not the hardness. It's a way it all flows together with the backs of little shallow for the legs and the legs, something's a little short. I think he arms maybe. Right, but you remember he had like he had some Jimmy that muscle groups there. Yeah, the skateboard showed the last year. Right, right. Yeah, that's the skateboard. It was a skateboard. And he got the skim off and the shoulders. The skateboard. That's right. That was the excuse, right? They said, you and you fell off the skateboard. But a choppy, just ate him. I mean, choppy looked phenomenal. He's really, it's a shame this guy can't go to the Olympia because there's these issues. I'm really kind of pissed off about it actually. I mean, this was just 1,000 percent all-time best. He's a freak. His waist is a little thick, but he's so big. It doesn't even matter really. Yeah, no, he was more conditioned here. He was just Denny's been and he just, I think, you know, it's always who he's been next, or two, but I think he was just better than he's been here. He's also a professional. I don't even know, this sounds like, you know, like a story you listen to, like, in 1960s, like the guy, you know, can't get to the United States for whatever reason, because this is some cognizant nation. And you know, and you look back 20 years later and you're like, why didn't they let this guy come to the US to compete? He was the top level athlete in the world. Well, the present had an issue with Obama who signed up. You know, some people were there. Trump Trump. Yeah, well, one of the world met a man. I know, but, you know, is that the reason? Isn't Trump preventing, like, somebody's trying to force? Right. There should be a way to, like, you know, appeal this thing, you know, just doesn't make sense to me. You know, they shouldn't let it talk to your athletes in this country. At least let him in. You don't have to let his family in if you don't want to, but let the guy can come compete, you know, what the hell I mean, I can't even believe it. It's ridiculous. It should be a way to, like, you know, have, like, some kind of a professional athlete's option. Well, it should be like, you're a big attorney. You know, how like, they have, they have the United Nations ambassadors who come here. It should be the same thing. They should have, like, some kind of, like, a special, you know, exception. I am, look, I don't want any terrorists in the country. And I understand what Trump's trying to do. I don't necessarily agree with the way he's going about it, but I understand. So I support that because I don't want terrorists in the country. But you can't just, you gotta have exceptions to the rule, because there are certain people that are in a different class. They're not in the political arena. They're in the athletic arena. Well, the whole thing is, uh, political. I wonder if there was, like, a guy who was, like, a real, like, top-notch, like, music. You can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can come from Saudi to to to the US. Right. All the hijackers in 2001 were from Saudi. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But how do you chop me and, you know, can't come and, you know, I help two, 12 guys and, you know what, I'm so terrible. Good. Stay there. Better for me. Right. In other words, let them come to God's sake. It's, it's ludicrous, really. Why can't he come to compete? You would think to the Olympic if he, maybe, like, you think on Ronald's would get involved, at least, too. You know, you, you just, you know what, you would think someone. You think of Ronald making a, made a call to Trump that he couldn't make up. No, because they hate each other for God's sake. Oh, that's right. They do it for guys. I got that idea. That's probably it. The Bible doll. Then you just see Trump recently live at the Bible, though. Well, you know, the, the, the, am I on, so you're like, I'm sure they like, I'm sure Trump has some kind of relationship with him, right? Well, he's, the Trump was telling, am I. Did you see that? Trump was telling, am I what headlines to write against Hillary's help when running into the election? All right, so they have a relationship. They have a relationship. Like, yes, so it, it's a relationship. I mean, you can't write this stuff. Yeah. So crazy. No, they have a good relationship. So, they, they get a Chris. And then they would do, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, And, A. M. I would do the catch and kill stories on Trump's, like, hook or girlfriend. You know, they would pay, the, they, they, they, they pay the playboy girl to be a consultant for the magazine, And they, they, she told her like, in exchange for never writing the story that she had never been with them for her. And that's not even stormy Daniels. That's the other girl. Is that, is that they got by the whole film? The playboy boy, but, but, yeah. Yeah. The playboy boy, but, he goes, you know? And the, well, you're, never, never dull, Never at all moments. It was a side we get talking about that we get more. It's a side we get a little bit. It's a very good. He looked very good and he's not going to be in the Olympia because all the hijackers were from Iran. I mean, oops Saudi Arabia. Yeah, he has a good one for you. I mean, what a good one. Who wins on the Olympia stage? How do you shoot in a flex Lewis? I'll say how do you just to be totally controversial with this off flex Lewis. Do you believe that he could challenge him? I mean, does he question? Well, did he challenge him in Korea? Some people would say he beat him, yeah. Okay, is he improved here than in Korea? Yeah, I have to say yes. Yeah, this is, yeah. I mean, my point being is this. He is beyond, beyond, worthy to be at on stage. Let me say this. Let me ask you this, Dave. Who's better? Him or Oscar Nani? Oh, he destroys Oscar Nani. And destroy him. Yeah. End of story. Oh, I don't think Oscar Nani ever challenged flex Lewis though. So I don't, that's not necessarily a good analogy. I mean, we did Oscar Nani beat the Jose Raymond for that point last year or the April March. It's got no legs. No. He's got, you know, muffin duck arms and delts. I'll tell you what, I'm looking at some of the video of Voliad, you know, posing against. He's phenomenal too. He's really good. Yeah, I got this. Very perfect. This might have been better than two to wilds. We had all year. Right. Mendus, but I mean, not to a tremendous. I'm going to do way. Voliad. He has like a B version of, he's like that. He's like the, not the B, but not the A version of like a, he's like a leap priest type. Yeah, I see it. I see it. Big legs, big arms, torso is a little long. Asciss, glutes a little bit too big. But, but I guess if you have straight glutes like his, it doesn't matter. And then the back is a little weak on the back double enough. So with over blown legs that it looks a little funny. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Very good, very good analogy. As soon as you said that, I saw it. Great side chess pose man. What? The two of them. I want you to think I'm a crack pot Dave. But I will say one thing, I think the Voliad still has some issues with the delts. They're not, they're better than they were. They don't have the, they don't have the, they don't have the, they don't have the. They don't have the, they still look mildly suspicious. Small this this Cartesian. That's a, we should, we should find out from all the internet warriors, but they shot in that. I'm liable. Unbelievable. What else? Well, let's see what else was going on that show. They had a, The bikini. Oh, they had a third. It's one of the had hotty and then they had, you know, Nicholas. And then it was like, guys, we really didn't know. They didn't look bad, but they obviously was not. No, just here. I call them European peeled guys. Angel Frost from Spain was third, fourth was Zorin Colesz. Excuse me. Colewski from Macedonia. Manuel kind of dillus from Spain was fifth. These are guys, I saw the pictures. They, they look like a gamma trees compared to these other guys. Because let's face it. These two guys can definitely be taught five at the Olympia, you know. Unfortunately, Nicholas will might be there, but unfortunately, Heidi won't be there. Yeah. There was immense physique. And then, in Portugal here this past weekend, David A. Mazzalari wins from Italy. And then there was a figure, pro division. Zorin, Doran from Italy. Italy cleaned up here, huh? And there was a bikini, a lot of myla. Nasa Nova from Ukraine one. So we're going to see a lot of people in the Olympia that we don't really, we've never heard of. And in women's physique is only four women. Here's a good, this is a good chance for women's physique, women to get in the Olympia education and no one took advantage of it. Lanka, Farina Cobra, for Ren Cucova, for Ren Cucova. Sounds like a tennis player. He wins from the Czech Republic. So congratulations. See Tim Gardner was out there. Tim Gardner's all over the place. I don't know how he does it. I got it. I'd have it. I'd have it. I'd be divorced and have it. And then I'd be divorced and have it. I'd like to see these international shows. To me, it really shows that there's interest around the world. I think this is great. Before there was every show in the United States, I like to see these international shows. Even if the lives are not as strong. If I was a competitor nowadays, Chris, I'll be honest to you. If I was competing nowadays and I was a pro, I would go and do these international shows. Just to say what I know it's more expensive. But a lot of times you can negotiate deals and hook things up with spots. Just to say, hey, I'll look at us. I'll say that you're both the whole weekend. Because usually they have to expose with these things. And I would go do these shows. I think you guys out there who are pros should take advantage. Especially if you're good. This should have been a show that more Americans were in. I think they missed the boat by not doing this show. Especially the first year you do it because this is when you get the biggest advantage. You know, over these people because no one shows up. But I would be doing travel. I like to travel. I know it's a pain in the estimate of dieting and stuff like that to have to get you stuff up together. But at that point, if you think about a course at the end of the diet, what do you really have to do with that point? If you're in shape, you're in shape. You pack your food and you go. Yeah, did I ever tell you a Gustavo Padel? You got to get Gustavo on something. You get the full story of Gustavo. I, it's a regards to travel and to shows. He, the first time he turned for a week on, I don't know how he gets a profile card. Maybe he won the Puerto Rico. He probably won the South American Championship some of these things. Yeah, South American. And it's such a small world. I, I got up the Boston, but, did, go down. I went down the Boston to see Jay in a snowy, like December. We're going to see this contest. And Richard Jones won. Remember Richard Jones? He was a Sean Ray knockout. Of course. If Nicholas would, whatever this kid would, the big legs is like, Lee Priest, then, then, what's the kid's name I just mentioned? Look like the Sean Ray look, the Sean Ray look alike. We're Sean, Sean, John. Richard Jones. Richard Jones. We saw like, so we're fucking in St. Pete. I don't know. We can't take it. We're just like our parents. Yeah. Richard Jones wins a show. And low behold, I never knew he beat at that show was Gustavo Badell. I talked to Gustavo years later and Gustavo could not believe I was at that show. Yeah, me and Jay went to see it. It was the show. It was like a show in New England by the guy. Oh, there you go. You used to guess post for the guy down in Washington. Oh, Jimmy Dakota's. Jim, no, no, there was another one. There was another guy. He actually had a heart attack in die. Oh, Gregco? Gregco? Yeah, Lenny Greco. Not Lenny Greco, I think there was something else. Yeah, Jimmy Greco. So anyways, I, he is later, I mean Gustavo. And I, so I forgot to build this time because I never really noticed him. And then once in 2000 on the tour, he got like 18th place. And I was staring at this guy backstage and I was like, oh, this guy's really good. And he'd keep on getting like 18th place. I'm thinking, why is he still not placing, you know, I was there with Jay over in Europe. And I was like, why is he not placing like, you know, 10th or 7th or 9th? I mean, that's where he should have placed. And he'd be like 18th, 18th, 18th, 18th. Well, years later, I told him that. And he said, well, you should have seen like two years later. He said, he got his pro card and he called up Wayne Demilier and he said, I want to compete. Wayne gave him the list of shows where they were and they were like, you know, 15 shows in 18 days in Europe. Right. When they have the European tours in Europe. And Gustavo would take like the Gobus on the train because he had no money. He would literally take the train to every single stop. And I said, how'd you do on the tour? He said, I got dead last and every show. He said, but I was making an impact. I was getting some experience. Right. So he had good stage. He had good stage presence. It's good stuff. Right. He'd run in the challenge round twice. Who don't he be a boost of them? He worked all year on which poses. He was like on a game show. That was like a game show. He's trying to get $20,000 per minute or something. He, you know, a fairly few. They would sell, you know, he out thought everyone would have it. I believe because he won that challenge round. You easily two years or so because he could beat someone on something. He could always beat Ronnie at the side try seven. Then he could beat the other guys in the other poses. So you only had to beat Mr. Lippie once, you know. He knew the pose he had to beat him in. Yes. It was such a, what a crazy file. I got to get Dorian on Dorian used to judge that. I got to get Dorian on the talk. But they just, Olympia's on it. We had like, Samir and Zayn on the panel. Which is the worst thing. These are all guys that like, why don't like that physique? I don't like his physique, you know. What someone else we said is this, they said, All the Mr. Olympias will vote for us. It's a physique that looked just like that. Yeah. Samir would want the guy with balance, right? Zayn would want the vacuum in the small ways. So Haney would want someone with the front, Ladd spread in a three quarter back pose. You know, Dorian would want total grain in his. Right. You know, common would want a freak. Larry Scott would want someone with big biceps. Frank O. Columbo would want someone with a peeled chest and peeled most muscular. Anyway, who's under five foot sex, yeah? Yeah. Yeah, definitely would be biased against like a gunter. It likely priest. Yeah, he likely priest. So we're gunned all day long. Well, I don't know. I don't think well, see that. And we only have the people's chance this year. You know, I, it's funny. I had him. I don't know if you saw the part one, but part two will be this week. I interviewed Dan Solomon. He was in a came coral, ironically enough. So that's how my son Danny says, oh, you just don't do it in that video show. We're on like, we're number one and we're on time. So I'd Dan, you used to be number one. Yeah. Like when you say pay you $85,000 an episode. We were talking about that. How, yeah, he's to have a, he's not the radio station. Yeah, because black men stop competing with me. I said, I got you those those years. He's like, they can get a raise in like 10 minutes. Hey, Steve. Dave offered me a, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, if it'd be 100 grand a month. I can't get 140. The true story that you know what, Dan came to me and wanted, he must have, ultimately, got a theater. And I was, you know what, I was just thinking about starting up muscle in the morning. That was my original brain child. And I said, you know what? Yeah, was in Miami, Dave, he came to you. Yeah, I said, Dan, you know what? I didn't trust Dan, but go ahead. I still, I don't even trust Dan now, but now I'm just kidding. The Dan has nothing to lose now, but back then I didn't trust him. And he, by his own admission, was always trying to sabotage, you know, to get to get the scoop on everyone. And I said, you know what, Dan? If you do the radio show on mine, or ex muscle, you know, channel, I said, I also want you to do part of your deal with me. It's going to be doing a show that I have created called muscle in the morning. It had never been at you. I'm going to, we're going to build you a little studio and you have a little backdrop in your house and you're going to record it. You'll send it for it every day to my, you know, video guy. And we're going to edit together because I think it'd be good at that. And that's my original intention was to end the du muscle in the morning. And so when we couldn't, when he really was just getting me to give him a bid so that then he can tell black man I'm willing to pay this and then black man would outbid it. And because he didn't really want to work back then. Yeah, he's like, when in real estate, you go look at something. They said, we got a contract coming in. Like, oh, I'm sure you do. Yeah, right. Exactly. So, so that's how that, that's how that happened. And then I just started muscleing morning and I said, fuck it, I'll just do myself. And that's how it started. So, thank you, Dan, for pushing me to do muscleing. And I'm sure you'll thank me for all the money you put in your pocket for those. Whatever it was, two, three years, the black man paid you for doing nothing, basically. Have you got to have a radio show? I'm going to have a radio show. Yeah, because he got excited about how it's turned black man. Right? Now he was excited that he didn't have a radio show and he didn't want me to get both the radio. She was not that it would have mattered. I don't even know why at the time I thought it was important, but I thought it was important at the time. And it was probably just to take it away from black man. It was stupid. I'm glad I didn't want to be the paydand all that money. Although, I think if he, I think we would have got sponsors at the time, if I had brought Dan on. But who knows? Back to the, the Pro schedule this past weekend, Len the Murray had a pro show in North Park, Virginia, and she had immense physique show, one by Greg Brandt, Congratulations. And the big pro bikini was won by Ashley Janell, Colorado, and Jack one Fuchs won the women's body building. A lot of women's body, but they have an awful lot of women's body building pro shows for a division that doesn't exist anymore. Right? I don't want to be a division. Paracelts are a second in a body, a papas, Switzerland, however. How last name is now is third. So yeah, the wings of strength people doing great. They're freaking, they're showing killing it. They've got a huge lineups of people. They're going to have their world championships, the rising Phoenix, coming up in September, giving away more prize money than all the women's divisions of the Olympia. Yeah. Who's better than them? Women's body building is doing great. I would do women's body building now. Women's physique competitor. By the way, did you hear Julie Adam Malikorni retired? No, I didn't know. She won't be doing the Olympia, big news. That actually is big news. I wonder why. I wonder if it's because she just, I got to, you know, I got to go to the show. I hate speculating, because you know what I'm going to speculate now, and she's going to come on this show and say, no, no, no, this is the reason. I want to have a family or something like that. Yeah, yeah, I know you're going to say that. I mean, I know you've done a set of things. I would like to have one. I don't know if that's the reason. I got to reach out to her. Well, just have a come over and put your son to bed so that you can do the radio show earlier. I wonder if anything to do with the rise and the rise of the Shini Grant star, you know, on the rise and after winning the Arnold, she's going to be a little bit of a success. I would have seen the battle that went to you. I would say, well, you know what, I would, I would, Shini Grant is off the hook, but but or and, Julie and Melcarni is as well, and she's, if she puts her mind to something, you know her, she's, she's, she's, she's sort of I believe crazy in a good way. Yeah. But, but I'm sure Shini gets as well, you know, sort of five, really crazy. You know, I mean, they take a very, very serious, it'd be a battle of the ages. Sure. It'd be like a J versus Ronnie type thing. Yeah, but we're not going to say it, obviously, because she's not doing the show. I'd like to see Candace Lewis, crossover from Fierre into, where I see Z. Last show, man. She was talk about being off the hook. She's so dangerous, it's ridiculous. I think she can, I think she can challenge Shini. She's a little bigger now, but I think she can challenge her for sure. She's great to be able to think about that. I'd love to see her head a couple poses against Shini backstage, you know, especially if they both win the Olympia. That would be crazy. All right, anyway, so, Linda had the, the Linda congratulations to Sun to the Cure Pro show. It seems to be growing every year. They keep adding new divisions. And, you know, it's, it's great. It's great that they have a way for former competitors to actually make a living. You know, as promoters, and the shows have the trends and not the competitors in the mob. See, I'm sure that I know the Linda show had an amateur division. The probably was packed to the health. So, a great job, you know. Great job. Great job. See what else I have in my little list of stuff to talk about. What's going on with this Steve Lourious? You know, let's, let's remind people what's going, let the whole Steve Lourious story. Steve Lourious originally worked with you. He claims to three weeks, you claim for six weeks. Then we saw him go over to my friend Justin there in it in New York, who he claims he went over there because Justin lives local to him. And we saw Lourry, and Lourry has been to talk about, by a, an enormous amount of people that has been like the air of air to the, classic physique Olympia throne. He's got the small ways to vacuum the whole thing. He wins Pittsburgh. Pretty easily. Or I am clean. But by one point, by one point. Some people say easily, but other people, divine Wilson would question that. Well, I mean the judges would question it. Yeah, he won by a point. Yeah. And he, the following, or two weeks later, he, instead of doing New York again, doing New York against divine Wilson again, who was second in Pittsburgh, he decides to do the two, 12 division because a friend of his is doing the open. Oh, it's doing the classic. That was the story, at least. And you predicted on the show that he was going to get destroyed. So like predicted, I was taking my predictions back to fill he's not shouldn't have been left muscle tech, or go ahead. You said he will be destroyed because he couldn't stand X for these two, 12 guys. And turns out you were right. He was like out of the top 10. I said that and I said his friend would be destroyed. And the, uh, we wasn't competing against in his position. Yeah, I'm hitting do well. And that other few. And a very weak class do. So I mean, New York pro was, New York pro did not have, uh, excuse me, New York pro did not have Reagan, divine and what names, my goodness. And the, and the freak from Germany, the classic, who was a guy from Germany? Look, I can't remember anyone's name. Wasn't divine in New York pro, but it wasn't. Yes, so my point was, I said that lineup, which I met was in, radically different than, you know, the top three in New York, which was like those are three, those three guys could win. Right, a Mitch is sort of second behind what's his name, visors, what's my, what's my, what's my, my gosh. He's got, he's got weaknesses from head to toe. Yeah, yeah, he's, he's not the greatest either, but I mean, he's got a, he's got a great one. I mean, it made hard. Yeah, true, true. So let's get back to Steve. So Steve Lawrence, did, did any disappeared? And, uh, no one heard from a nail, he pops up and he's, uh, he's, all of a sudden, Neil Hill is training him. And, that's an air and special to it. I can, of course, of course it is because it's season right. Yeah, but it came before you even, how's that? But, um, he seems to be, I guess, but I guess Justin, who's his former coach is upset. I'm not upset, but he's, I guess he's, I guess he's, well, because he bent on him, dude. Well, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he seems to be giving all the credit to like, uh, Neil Hill, who's a great trainer, by the way. But I, I just, you know, Neil has a work with this guy, you know, for any shows yet. Credit to one. As like the greatest coach of all time, I mean, you know, it's, you know, let's face the guy, the guy he did win Pittsburgh, you know, with Justin helping him. So, true. I don't, you know, we never heard any, any. So you, you did predict that he was not, he, you might have had a few screws loose, I don't know. Well, I, I, I, I predicted that, um, I predicted immediately off, um, I did, I did not predict that he would leave Justin and Hartley. You did, you did predict that. I didn't say it on the show just because it, you know, it probably wasn't the place yet. Why not the guy, switch coaches so frequently. How could it be the coach? How could the coach be that bad if he won the Pittsburgh first of all? First of all, first of all, a lot of these, this is what happens. You, you quote coach someone and a lot, a lot of these guys talk to each other, right? And then a lot of these other coaches, whoever these are, I don't mean everybody, but a lot of, quote, these other coaches follow the money and Instagram and then like, you know, jerk them off all day long. But that's that meal, that's not meal, he'll start. No, I know, but I, but that's why I said that's an air, special idea. So, I mean, Aaron's panicky over there that he's panicky, Laura's, and he's, you know, not in the lobby. Right. Well, he isn't, he's not, oh, he's not doing the Olympic or is he doing the Olympic? Of course he's not doing the Olympic, not yet, at least. Or he wasn't, I don't know. Well, he said he wasn't doing it, but, you know, maybe with Neil, well, that is definitely not doing it because that talk about head case. I mean, you either are, you're not. Right, we'll find out, I guess. So what was the, what was the question and how we answered? Why did guys keep leaving coaches, especially when they have the results of them? You've had a guy leave, you too. And I've had people leave me too, and they were winning shots. I mean, I've had, and I don't bother me. No, I know it's a lot of it, but it's like they think the grass is green, it's a place off, they're missing it. Well, that's what I'm saying. First, they follow by other coaches on their Instagram, who, you know, raking grounds will post up a picture, and, you know, Justin is there to like comment on every picture, a post is called, troll in the guy. So if you've got for a bit the guy, like, doesn't want to share of their, they have to say, you know, if you need any help. Got you. And they do it like this because people are fucking certifiably nuts after they don't want to show. You're right. And they'll do this. You know, you pecks could have been a little fuller. Why does it this? You know, if you would just a little drier and a little fuller, they'll say, look at someone's cell that I coach. If you had that condition, be like me saying, you know, look at, you know, rodents legs, I'll give you a leg workout. I don't even know what the hell he does for legs, and I don't care. They look good. Just get the fat on water off on them. You know what I mean? You say, well, look at what I did for the water carriers condition. Right. I mean, that's what people do. It's a sale. It's just, so that's what people are crazy after shows. And it's susceptible to any advice. And I know that Dave, because well known people, email me all the time, with other coaches after shows, who may say, what do you think I said? I think you look great. Because it's a worst time to give, it's totally disingenuous to give advice to somebody coming off a loss after a show, because they're just searching, grasping it's draws. God, blackmanship, pay us for to do the show. I'm going to say a dance all the time. It shows better than anyone of dance. So I'll get him back to show. Get him back to Dan. Get him back to Dan. Get him back to the show. So it's true. Get him back to Dan. So Dan was in the... No, we talked about Steve. What do you mean? Well, forget Steve. You already gave him the answer to the question. I forgot. I was originally talking about Dan Solomon though. So Dan Solomon was in town in Cape Coral. He's from Florida, obviously, he's from the other coast. And he was over. He was like, Dave, I'm going to be in Cape Corals. That way you live, I said, yeah, I live in Cape Corals. I'm going to come by. So I said, come by. We'll do an interview. So I got him, came by the studio, met my kids, whatever. And we were bullshit. And I'm like, yeah, let's go into the studio and let's record something. We recorded an hour. So we did two parts. And we talked about anything. We talked about everything. But we talked about the people's champ. Well, you know, words that they're going to be doing. And what is thoughts on it were. And we talked about, you know, with Kai Green come back. They compete. And why he should come back and compete. You know, the timing is right now. And, you know, it would be great for the sport and great for the show. And we talked about some other controversy. I talked about why, you know, how ridiculous and he agreed with me, which is amazing. How ridiculous these exclusive contracts they still have are. We're like, fill he can't come on my show or can't go on his show. Whatever it is because, you know, they got some kind of like exclusivity that they don't even use, you know, any more. It's, it's, it's outlived its purpose in other words. There's no magazines anymore. There's no, there's no even flex magazine anymore. So I don't know what, why they won't let fill, you know, going other shows and promote the Olympia. I think that, and I even brought up the point, and Dan, I'm agreed with me. I believe that Phil would be a more liked champion. Oh, I was a little, if he was able, because he's actually like, if you watch an interview with him, I've seen interviews on other talk shows with him. And the guy is pretty entertaining, you know, he's, he might not, you know, like his physique, but, or you might not like his attitude, but he's actually an entertain. He's got very insightful as well spoken. Well, I don't know if he's entertaining, but I know this. He's won the Olympia a lot of times. And for every person, you know, I know he's got this reputation that people don't like him, but he's got a massive fan base. And the reason why people don't like him is they don't really know him. Imagine if I, if I'm like, well, that's part of the game. I mean, I'm agreeing with you. If you can only do one interview a year, and, you know, you say one thing that's controversial, people can say, what an idiot. He said this. Well, I mean, everyone says something, you know, quote, stupid, I do all the time. Who's ever in whose interview do I mean, actually asked him about his upbringing? And then how he, you know, I mean, what we know is we shot a few fucking baskets at the University of Colorado there, you know, and played basketball. I mean, that's the only thing I know, I don't really. I want to know, you know, everything about him. And so, you know, it's kind of foolish for them not to let their Mr. Olympia, the guy who represents our sport, you know, the guy who, you know, is in the social media world, you know, dilly downing around that because he can't actually go on anyone's show and actually tell people what he's actually thinking inside. He winds up making posts on Instagram and then people take it the wrong way. And then you can't, you need to sit down and be able to explain yourself to people. It's like, you ever get, you ever get into a texting thing with clients, and they get insulted because they're not really, because you don't really pick up your tone. You might be being sarcastic, maybe you're just being short with them because your kids are driving you crazy. Instead of just picking the freaking phone up and calling you up on the phone and talking to you, which usually completely negates everything that's been done in the attacks. Now they're like, oh, I didn't know you. I thought you were mad at me, right? So it's the same way. Social media can be taken the wrong way because you can't hear the person speaking and the general, you can't tell if someone's being genuine or not. So I just said, Dan, it's just, I can't believe that they're still playing this card. Yeah. What do you say? He's like, you're right. It doesn't really serve, you know, he's misdeculably correct, but he agreed. He did agree with me. He did agree with me that it doesn't serve. It's purpose anymore. It did when there was magazines. I understand it because the magazines wanted to have a scoop. They wanted to get the adjunct people. I want to sell more copies of MD because I have selling, so in my magazine with an exclusive interview, versus Flex magazine per se and vice versa. That makes sense because that's when people read magazine. It was important to have cover lines. But no one reads magazines anymore. And that's not relevant anymore. So, you know, any, why any would company would even spend money on trying to pay someone to be exclusive to them is, is the biggest waste of money in today's, so he's wrapped up with who? Flex? No, he's wrapped up with no one. He's doing the Amazon.com broadcast this year again. No, I mean, I mean, Phil, Phil. Oh, Phil, yeah, I guess he's flex AMI. I guess he's got a contract with them, you know, because they only Olympian, he's Mr. Olympian. I understand that, but, but they're not using him. So let him, they don't care to use them. Right, but take your chance, but take your chance, and put a free conteshered on him. It says, Mr. Olympian, AMI, Flex magazine. Whatever you want to put on. I'll tell you. Send them around the country. You want to, well, that's not going to come to date. I'm not going to happen. Because you'll get a just, you know, nobody's a, I'm not, no, it's not scooping anyone. It's, it's going to promote. Yeah, but unfortunately, you would be scooping because you said him, okay, I'm the lead run interview him too. And then send him over to whoever else wants to interview him. This is, I mean, Dory needs made the rounds easy. You know, popularies from doing all these interviews and all these different media organizations now. It's, it's the biggest mistake I think that, that's out there. It's an antiquated system. It was, it worked. Like I said, I think it was great. And smart, I look, I worked for him. We were trying to scoff up anyone. No. It made sense back then, but not in today's social media, you know, world, it just doesn't, it doesn't make sense anymore. And, you know, I just think that it's killing Phil, he's brand. I think it's killing a lot of guys brands, you know, because they can't get on decksters, one of the most that deck, it's he decks just smart. Dexter goes on his own in Instagram, it does his own like videos. Even though he's exclusive to AM, he can do whatever he wants on his own page, which is, which is also ludicrous, because here you are, they want exclusivity on you, but you can go do your own stuff. Like, I mean, these guys hire their own, video guys, and they start their own channels, which is fine. But in order to promote your own stuff, you need to go on other channels that are popular as well. So that's just my suggestion. Like I said, I, it doesn't matter today. I mean, it's just, I just, you know, Dan and I did a very good interview in the sense that we talked a lot about about a lot of controversial subjects. And we gave a lot of strong opinions, and I think it will be, the first part was well received. I think people will even like the second part, bad luck, because I started getting animated. You know, I started getting into the whole interview thing. At first, I was, I was just interviewing him, and then I became more of a discussion between him and I, as to, you know, what our opinions are on everything. And I told him, I said, look, you know, I said, I had to take a, you know, an approach to how I covered dirt my journalism, and my approach is different than yours is. And I said, you know what the funny thing, Dan, is you could interview Kuy Green, I could interview Kuy Green, you could interview, I could interview you, they'd be two separate interviews. Completely different. And they would vote with you. Just as entertaining, it's a great point. And, you, you've told me yourself, in fact, when I said, I don't Dave, that was a great interview, and you said, you got to see the interview with someone so-and-so-do with them. Yeah. And I just agree with you. You said, no, you're the best. You know what it is because, and Dan, you've... I said, no, go see someone so as interview with them because it's a totally different perspective of their mind. Right. And you have to take that as an interview. Because if I see this five interviews out there on a person, most involved the same, I don't want to do the same interviews ever. So I'm going to be like, all right, well, I get to get to a different angle. That's why when I interview Dorian, I waited for everyone else to interview him first so that I wouldn't ask the same questions essentially. And then I asked him, my set of questions. I said, Dan, what do you mean? I said, well, Dan, you're not going to ask controversial questions if you get filth. So you're going to ask him questions relevant to what's going on in his life and in the world in terms of his bodybuilding world. That's what you are. I said, you're like Larry King. You ask the questions that they're not super controversial. But they're what people want to hear about. I said, that's a gift that you have. You know how to ask questions that people want to know the answers to. I ask questions that people never thought of necessarily, or maybe did think of and thought no one would ask. That's how that's my approach, I take. And because that's also interesting. You know, it's interesting in the different way. You know, it puts the person in a different perspective. It's not them just talking about themselves. It's them having to think about themselves and give answers because it's what makes them tick. And I think that's what also people want. I want to know, what makes filth he's tick? Why is he that's acceptable? That is absolutely 100% demosimportant part. Right. But he's also interesting to know how he came up and shows you one. You want to hear, you want to know everything about the guy. You know, Kigrain same thing. We've heard all the Kigrain. We know Kigrain's, you know, history already. We know what shows he's won already. But what makes Kigrain tick? Remember when he, remember when he did that on a classic that he won? I don't know if it was on 9 or 10. And he fell off the treadmill. He was like, so like, let's start. And remember that he actually fell off the treadmill. And everyone was like, oh, Kai, he's not going to make it to the show. And I want to know what happened. No one ever asked him. Yeah, I wanted, that's a question I would ask if I had Kai and what did that happen? That's what he was working with. Oscar. Remember, there was so much drama around that whole prep. And he looked right and made it to the stage and looked right. I wanted to know what was going on behind the scenes. There was another one. If you remember, he remember when he did that Olympia. He was like, him and Oscar like, sequestered themselves for like six weeks in Vegas. You know, we, we speculated for the full six weeks. We said, dude, we were speculated on the ambient temperature change. With humidity and it was fun. Right. And you remember that. And why am I? Day, way, way, way. Day, you asked me. You asked me, Dave. I remember that prediction. You said, what do you think? I said, it's going to be a disaster day. Are you right? You know why I know that? What? I said, because I saw that video of you made for MD Dave when you went. And I said, only, I know I said, only Rocky can go to Russia and went and train with it in the snowstorms and in the logs and stuff. But you know what, home is where your heart is. Or whatever that saying is. And you have to be most people, especially artists and Kai is an artist. And he didn't even be there environment. And I predicted that. And I said, I predicted everything a week. I said, and pictures will put out posts and videos. He said, it's not going to end well at all. Poor Mike posted up Mike, most in Ella was sent there to videotape that whole six weeks in Vegas. He sent at muscle men sent them that they paid for the whole thing. And he couldn't get, remember he couldn't get Kai out of the hotel room? Kai would be sitting in this hotel. There was like a sweet they were saying. And there was like the main room and then there was the bedroom. And Kai was in the back bedroom and Mike was like, Mike posted on my post and I'll, he all day long was in the regular room. The main room with Oscar. Because Oscar was there in the room with them too. Oscar was cooking food like, like, Oscar was cooking like he was an old Italian grandma, all day long for Kai. Mike's like, is Kai coming out? It's been like six hours already. Doesn't he have to go train? Yeah, well, he might come out in a couple hours. And some Mike was there all day filming like Oscar and the cooking and like, people coming in and out of the place. But no one saw Kai green for like, at all. We don't even know Kai. I want to know what Kai was fucking doing in that back room for so long. And what Kai? Yeah. Can't you? Don't you want to know? Well, I had to guess those for something. I know. And the person had the gym and just like, oh, Kai, green's coming to the gym. Kai, green, Kai, green. And so Kai said I'm going to go into the locker room and come out. You know, he went into the locker room. He didn't say he was going to the locker room and it was midnight. And they're waiting for him, like the owner and his friend to come out. And it was like 130 when he finally came out in the morning. They didn't know if it was a long trip. It was overseas. And they didn't know if he had fallen asleep. If they didn't want to go in and disturb. You know what I mean? But the the identity, I said, why did you guys just go into check on him? Maybe he had fallen asleep. They're like, well, you know, it's Kai. And if Kai threw his hat into this year's Olympia, I mean, talk about Olympia, hype. Oh, god. And I think it would be crazy, right? It would be crazy. Yeah. And you know what I was just saying about how much time this guy really left it to do this, you know? And this might be the year to do it, you know? Who knows? Big deal, you know? Who cares if you don't win? Kai can't lose. If he does the show and he comes to the second or third, it doesn't matter. He'll still be the most popular person there. Well, the fans would go to number one for sure. Because they're not fan things. And he'd love that and hit him, he'd say, you know, you know, what I would say? Well, no, he'd say it's harder to win the fans, but it's easy. I mean, it's easier to win the judges vote because you're the current winner and the same judges and judging you, you're the year and it's the, the garnering the support. Look, let's say they did the show and really and he came in and he came in the second or third. OK, and he deserved it. OK, let's say, you know what? You could win this year, Dave. Who cares? He still would be the most popular guy there. You can win the end of story. No one can. You know what? He could win this year because the line-ups are always, it's important who you stand next to. And I know it's important about Phil, but, you know, he could, if he looked anything like what he's capable of looking like, he could win because he's got the cross-strated quads, which means he'd have the best quads up there. They'd be, you know, not as big as Rami's, but there would just be cross-strated, very few people in that line-up have deep, cross-strated quads. Technically, he could demolish the outshot against Phil and Rami, right? I'm not even mentioning a bone-ac. He could win the back double, arguably, although Phil is, it fills, well, I should walk that one back. Phil's been named Phil too. He's 20, sure. Yeah, it really is. But, you know, I mean, you never know. I agree with you. I think there's only a benefit from doing the show. If I was to love the people that just pay him to do the show, they'd probably already offered him to do it anyway. And they'd tell him to do the show and he wouldn't take it. A lot too. Then he'd try it one more time. Enough. Aaron offered him enough that you would do the show. Yeah, they offered you that money. Aaron, my number is 2075. Oh, my God. So, yeah, I thought Aaron, Aaron had a big announcement. He was going to sign a big name, and I thought it was going to be Kai, and I was wrong. It was actually Brian Shaw. Sign the world's strongest man, Brian Shaw. It's not that big, but go ahead. I guess he figured he's the biggest guy, because it's 450 pounds, but anyway, I don't know the note. I'm going to deviate from bodyboy a little bit, and go to muscle science. Let's say go to my father. Yeah, muscle science, muscle science. So, I don't know if you've seen this new article that you came out. It was another line was how to put it in Google Translate. I wanted my father to send this to me. They found that blood bear, the bear from bloods, especially when they're hibernating in the winter, can make you grow more muscle. Do you know that? Blood. The blood from bears, like in other words, if you take the blood out of these bears, they're finding some protein in there, some kind of factor that can actually prevent muscle weakness and older people and can build muscle. Of course, they apply for weakness and older people and weightless astronauts, but let's face it. The athlete's going to want to use it. They haven't really isolated what it is yet, but they're trying to figure it out. Pretty interesting, right? Because they find why did these bears, when they hibernate, and when they don't lose any muscle? Think about it. Think of the whole went to, they don't even think. They don't lose one gram of muscle. Because they bear. But they have something that's preserving the muscles, but what I'm saying. So they're trying to figure out what it is. So should I be having my cousin, Ocellan, grass fed cows, let's start raising main black bears? That's pretty big. That'll be the newest thing. Everyone's got to find a way to cheat you know that. There are muscle cells evidently swell in size. They can get bigger. I think that's what makes them more antibolic. Because we know for a fact that volume-wise muscle cells tend to be more antibolic and just like dehydrated muscle cells tend to be more catabolic. Imagine that. If they can come up with a pill or something like that, it contains this factor in their blood. It's only produced in the winter, by the way. If you take a bear when it comes up wakes up from hibernation and it's eating normally, doesn't have that in there. So it's adaptive. Something that helps them get through the hibernation. I'm sure someone who will exploit that. It'll be on one of these peptide sites like next week. They'll have to be bare-factor number one or something like that. They'll go out. Unbelievable. So I like you, Sue. You see my underarm that's burnt down. Yeah, I saw that. I saw that he was trying to find Jews, the guy in Burn the Burn Jews, right? Is that what happened? Chris has a kind of an Miami. He sends me to Sardico, but it's this creating lunatic. 70's something you're all was trying to burn down the condo. Because he thought they were Jews in there. Is that what he was trying to do? He'll Jews. Yeah, he lived there. And he poured gasoline down there too. Yeah, he lived there. And he poured gasoline down the trash tubes. Oh, really? He went out and he was doing. Two, he poured two out of another, I think he had 26 other containers of gasoline. Wow. Like if they don't get him out of the country, he sounds like a terrorist to me. Well, he's going to try to kill you so crazy. He thinks you're going to qualify in the 2012 Lempio. He didn't. That was, he didn't have any belongs where my dad is. My dad tried to light his house on fire too, because he thought he was trying to warm up the house. But they, they rest some charge, some with a temp that are shouldn't have been a temp that murder. Well, was he have seen mine or is he was he a guy who was like, he like, he's cemented. Um, I don't know. He's liking his mid 70s. Crazy, though. Yeah. He probably has to mention. You know, it's, dementia is very sad. They went so much fall for today. You know, and he obviously, I told you this, I think I mentioned on the show. He broke his femur and four places. They had to redo that. They had to put his leg back together and they put, he had to redo that hip or placement in that side done 25 years ago. And he's not doing well. He's got the touch in ammonia. He's when old people start falling. And they're, and they're, you know, they have mental, you know, memory issues. It doesn't really go well from, I, my dad at the stage where he's like, you know, I'm done. I'm like, what do you need to do? He's like, I'm done? He's like, I see you're done with life or you're done with the, you know, because you're pissed off that you're in pain. No, life. So, when people give up like that, that's it. It's over. Unfortunately. So, I, you know, I don't know what's going on my dad. My sister's flying down here this is coming weekend. So, I don't know if my tail long. I know everyone always asks about my dad. So, I don't know if my dad's going to make it past this one. I don't think he wants to anymore. I was, you know, I try to give him a little pep talk, but, you know, also, he's very confused because, you know, whenever you get at it, my dad was in undanesthesia for six hours on this surgery. So, he's definitely whacked from that. And he's, he's actually pleasant in the hospital, which is a bad sign also. Everyone's like, you know, we love you, Daddy. So, plus I said, that's that a good sign. I said, I said, when he starts cursing you out and yelling at people, let me know because that's a good sign that my dad's back. So, he could use, maybe I kind of get him some bear blood. I kind of go find some, anyone who knows, I know we'll have some of our viewers out there who are listening to his, probably he has brown bears. Unfortunately, they're not going to hibernation right now. I'm at my dad's going to have to make it to the winter. I can take some bear blood and transfuse it into him. He was, his iron was a lot of money. So, he probably could use a blood transfusion. It's terrible getting old. It is a little depressing. But it happens to the best of us, I guess, right Chris? Well, some people don't make it to the wall. I told my dad that too. I said, I said, I gave it to the overcomes a lot already. I said, there's no reason why you can't keep going. He's like, I don't want to. You know what? When I hear that, I don't even get sad. I kind of like, you know what? Yeah. Maybe he's right. Well, it's not quality life isn't it, after all? Well, it's always about quality of life. We're really, right? I mean, the only reason my dad is really living at this point is to watch his grandkids get a, you know, grow old and get a little older so they can interact with him. I don't know. I think he's going to, he's better off in another place. I don't want to see him suffer. It's hard to say. I'm saying it about it. Father, it's about a parent, you know, to admit that maybe, you know, maybe the living life is not as good as going to the next realm. But you know, I don't want to see my dad suffer. He's suffering and he's not happy. I don't want him to, you know, I don't want to see. No, there's a lot of people try to save people because they, because they can't. In other words, it's bothering them. They don't want to lose their, they don't want the parent to die because it's going to bother them. But you know, if that's what you pair really wants, you know, if my dad is done and he's given up and he's like, all right, you know what? I'm good. Enough life. I want to move on to my next agenda, whatever that is. I'm not against it. I want him to be happy. I don't want him to suffer. And, you know, for people like your dad or my dad losing their memories is worse than, you know, physically handicapping them because that's their whole life was based on their, on their mind, you know, and the things that they said and the things they did, you know, terrible when you can't, you have no control of that anymore. Totally. I mean, someone, there was a, you will mention to, made the comparison with dementia in terms of, you know, like sometimes you ever fall asleep and you wake up and you're like, you know, just like totally lost where you are. Imagine being like that, you know, the time. Four, seven. Yeah, no, it's not a good pleasant to live your life. So, but like you said, a lot of people don't make it. I mean, is it worse to be to die at 40, you know, and I mean, I think that would be worse, you know. Look, as long as my father can kind of drift off to the other world in a very peaceful way, I think that that's the best way to go. And that's how I'd want to go, you know, I don't want to, I don't want to be pathetic, you know, my dad's not pathetic yet, but I don't want him to get to that point. So, we'll see what happens over the next couple of weeks. I'll keep you guys updated. The World Health Organization Chris officially declared bacon as harmful as cigarettes. Did you see the redista? This was last week. That's insane, dude. This should be shot. They're saying, and look, I've said this also too for a while, that processed meats are very course-inogenic to you. I know, what don't that for like, the years that they're course-inogenic, but for God's sake, really, you know, how about this? It's, what would you use, you see, a 10 year old on a corner in the BLT sandwich, just smoking a pack of marbles, which 20 can tell it's worse for them. I mean, or these people are just retarded. But, you know, sorry insulting people, I mean, they just stupid. I mean, really, they say they found, they say, this is the article they say, they say, the World Health Organization says it's claimed that they found sufficient evidence in humans that the consumption of processed meat calories causes colorectal cancer. Meat consists of multiple components, such as heme iron, and meat can also contain chemicals that form during meat processing or cooking. For instance, carcinogenic chemicals that form during meat processing include end-initroso compounds and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, cooking of red meat or processed meat also produces heterocyclic aromatic amines, as well as other chemicals, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which are also found in other foods and in air pollution. Some of these chemicals are known as suspected carcinogens. But despite this knowledge, it is not yet fully understood how cancer risk is increased by red meats or processed meats. So, I mean, if I didn't go to medical school, I probably could have pronounced all those terms. Now, they actually have a chart. This is really funny, Chris. You know, I love what they do to say. They probably spend 10 million miles on this study. They have a chart on bacon's cancer risk. How much bacon you could eat to raise your color-rescilled cancer? Color-reactable cancer. The E2 strips of bacon per day, you only increase your risk 5.9%. However, if you eat 10 strips of bacon per day, you increase your color rate, it percentage to your chance of color-reactable cancer by 9.5%. Now, Aaron, I know that you have, you are in singing me, it's a lot of bacon. I've watched it breakfast for, you better cut back your 10 strips to your two strips or maybe no strips. I don't eat bacon, so I'm not worried to be honest with you. But cured meats are not good for you. We know that it's sad, like you said, if you have a hot dog once in a while, it's not a big deal. But if you're eating it every single day, I guess it could definitely cause problems. I think not using a fiber supplement is going to increase your risk of color-reactable cancer. A lot more than eating a couple strips of bacon in the dough. But they claim it does. Well, how does two pieces of bacon compare to two borrows a day? I don't know. That's the chart I want to see, you're right. You know, that's the chart. And who are the guinea pigs they use? I mean, it's just, it's just, you know what the problem is? They do these retrospective studies. They look at old people who got color-reactable cancer and they say, well, what did you eat? What was your diet? Look, I can't remember what I ate this morning for breakfast. I don't know how these people come up with one thing. I was fucking 25 years. Unless they're just eating the same thing every day. You know, why? You know, two eggs and two pieces of bacon every day, every morning. You know, after I read the article, all of a sudden I got this craving for bacon. I'm like, I want to fucking eat bacon, all of a sudden. I don't know why. I don't even have any pieces of bacon in 28 years. I'm really curious. All of a sudden, I want to have a craving for bacon now. I want to go make some bacon with good eye hop. This is the show three in the morning and we'll get some bacon. So... Well, as long as my dad is ready to leave this mortal plane, maybe I should have me eat a couple pieces of bacon. He might as well, right? Get as much bacon as possible. Did you, did you, did you find the smoke? He did smoke for many years. I thought he was a smokeer. He stopped though. He's not, he hasn't smoked for 20 years, but he bespoke for a long time. He smoked the pipe. He smoked cigarettes. He stopped to cigarette. He started to mess him, smoking the pipe. Yeah, my dad is smoked the pipe. Yeah, if he had to be considered an outspoken probably. Right, he claims he hasn't inhaled. I said, you'd like you to get mouth cancer. He destroyed your gums from it, but this is you're lucky to get. My dad has got a very good constitution, because he obviously has endured a lot of to help issues over the years. But father time beats us all, that's the bottom line. Time is longer than time. Yeah. His father lived in 92, but his father never smoked a drink. So definitely get an extra five or six years at yourself if you don't do that. It was back to quality again. Yeah, yeah. You're right. It's a little quality life. It's really well comes out of it. I always said, you know, who cares if you live longer, but if you're miserable and you're feel terrible while you live longer, it's maybe not a good idea. But that's why I always said, I want to live. Well, I want to live to be old, but I want to be functional. You know, that's the key. You want to be functional. 90 would be great as long as I'm functional to time to 90, a hunch it would be better if I'm functional to a hunch. If I'm disemble, then it's not to me. It's not worth living. You're going to keep, you know what? You got to keep your mind busy all the time. Believe me. You got to keep it all, you know what? You got to keep it busy all the time. You're planning going on. Not that anyone cares about. I did, I produced a very rare bowel to Shrick the Chris. One of the only people to do it. And I think I might be the first person in the entire world to produce this, it's called a crystal bowel. It was a combination of these two babies I bought and it produced, I produced a bunch of them too. And so I am now on the bowel, constrict the breeding, I guess you could say rankings. I've moved up the rankings quite a bit recently with this, with this, the production of this animal that I produced. The real rankings because your radio show is ranked, what was it? 30th or so? I think we're last three with the last three of this show. But yes, so I just, to me that was like, that was like, getting your pro-card, you know? I got my pro-card in reptile breeding. The crazy things we do. It's funny that I always tell people that it's very important to have hobbies outside of bodybuilding. Bodybuilding is my source of income and my job, which I love, because it's always nice to love your job. But then I have to have a hobby. I would say breeding reptiles is my hobby. Even though it could become a good source of income in the future, but it's not right now. So I enjoy doing, Chris likes bodybuilding too. And I know your real estate is really a source of income, but you also love it. And that's important because you have two different passions. So if something goes wrong in mind, you get the other that kind of fold back on. If someone burns down your house because they think you're a Jew, at least, but you can leave them to the radio show and get your depression and frustration that, right? You got the craziest fucking people who live in your buildings. It's unbelievable. Well, that's, that's, I agree with you. You know, there's never a dull moment. What happens if like, so in the lives that burns the building down is what the head of the head and work with insurance? Well, Joe Cherry would have been down there and I mean, it would have been like, you know, right? I mean, but does that like, you know, how like, you know, how if you kill yourself, you don't get like, you don't get like, you don't get like, you're someone's own barge building down your insured. Okay, it doesn't matter. This way you have insurance for, but isn't that considered arson kind of like if you live there? Yeah, but arson is like, if it's not insured, if like, you know, me and you over insure of the building, it mean you own and then we have like a mander of my wife. People who say they don't put up that crazy lunatic that burn the building down because you want to get his fucking insurance money from it. That, you know, crazy things of happened. Yeah, no, it's scary. Thank you. So now, Chris, here's the question. Did they arrested this guy, right? He's probably going to do jail time. I would think. Oh, yeah. Right. Maybe you could pick up the apartment at a good rate. Yeah. You're the as the getting. No, no, I'm sure people are on it like up, right? I would be on it, Chris, you better get to get that right. Come on. Like, why don't rise, stay. What do you think those things? What did he do? You know if his apartment looked good? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe you could pick it up for a song into dance. No, those things are always like curses. Yeah. Right. I don't know. You never know. I'm sure his family's going to want the apartment, but maybe you can bite. Maybe they don't want to take care of it. It probably needs to complete. The guy probably was living like a slotted there. It's probably needs a whole redo. I'm sure. Yeah, but it's a solution for my immediate. Right. That's something that's right up your alley. You like to do stuff like that. I heard our friend, Jose Raymond, just going to check out the area. Oh, yes. I didn't know that. That's good. I'm still there. Wow. The West Coast on my side. In your town. Really? How can we didn't tell me this? Jose, call me. I got a lot of people moving down here. He said Lloyd Dawlar, who he prepped and looked tremendous at that most recent show, wherever was Lloyd, there in your town or in your body. Those right here in my town. Those in front of my eyes on the kid, Carl. And he said, you know, I don't know what he said. He said, you know, that $400,000 house is going to be in 10 years, whatever, a million dollars. That may not be true, but I said, Jose, I said, his reply to has, it only has two things, whether in no taxes. So that alone will always make it a growth area, which means real estate prices will always go up. And who can't you buying a hat? You can spend half the amount of money, or a third of the amount of money you spent wherever he is in Boston there to get the same house. So you saw my house, I think it is. Oh, yeah. I remember more inch, you know, so it's who's better than me. He could sell his house up there and move down here and he'll live like a king. And you know what the funny thing is? I'm getting a lot of people moving down here. My friend Cole, Hansick is down here now. He's working for me. And who else was telling me they wanted to move down here? A couple people told me they wanted to move down here. A key Williams is thinking about moving down here. I'm going to turn the west coast of Southwest Florida into the new Mecca of Bodybuilding. Everyone's going to I want everyone down here. I'll have people, the studios will have TV shows telling you. This is Cape Crawl's the number one growing city and I didn't move here because of that, it just is. It's the number one growing city in the United States. Everywhere you look this house is being put up here. I'm shocked that you haven't been down here yet, scouting out. You know, I'm not shocked. No, well, my, you know, my really you've never met on me that my really good friend in Miami has a builder and he's always maybe we could start a little company, Dave. He's always asked me. It's not like, let's build the house, but you know, he still built these houses in Miami that, you know, they're not like on the west coast. I mean, they've just, they take a lot of money to build and, you know, they sell for a lot of money. So I always say like, you know, what if somebody can't come up with $665,000 per, you know, $222 square foot house. You could put up a 100,000 house you spend in itself or 200 here all day long. That's the thing. Dave, we should, we, yeah, we just, let's make a person out. New hobby. New hobby for me. New hobby. Oh, no, it's going to be a hobby. Joining Chris is hobby. Yeah. I'm trying Chris's. We can call ourselves three, three, uh, three, three mandrels. Three of me, a three, three mandricks. I mean, Chris, see, that was a minute and they pull up a building houses now. We could start a reality show. We could, we could. There would be a reality show. You see the guy with snakes and he's got like a racer show and what? And what are you talking about? The place is lucky not to, the two of us couldn't fucking change a light bulb together. We have to do anything. Like, and no one wanted to work out. I was going to actually, I was embarrassed. I was going to post. I was dead serious. Yeah. I was going to send you a picture. You were on a crack-out. Of a towel bar that I had. And I was proud of myself. Me too. When I just thought my value, I very proud of myself. A towel bar. I can put up do anything I want. Anything I put my mind to. I can do. I just choose not to do it. That's all. So if we have any house builders who want to move to Florida, also, and work for our new three, two weeks. No, we have the guy in Miami. I'm telling you. He's a one-stop. I'm sorry, me up. Sign me up. All right. Well, that's uh, it's getting late. I have still have 600 emails to answer. And uh, you know how that goes. Mondays always a busy day. In the body of all this coming weekend. What do we got up? We get some shows coming this week. Uh, we do. I forget what it is. There's something probably show coming this weekend. I'm going to come and schedule right now. Tell you. I hear Chris doing work in the backdrop. Yeah, I'm just looking at that property slowly. See, Chris is doing his hobby while we're talking. You know, well, you're, you're, it's in addiction, dude. Yeah. Los Angeles championships. Next week. So that's a big one. Pro, oh, it's only pro figure. Nevermind. Thought it was a big one. Kenney show next weekend somewhere. There's a bikini show everywhere. John Lindsay's got one every single weekend. Yep, battle the desert. Pro bikini men's physique. Is it really battle? What's a bikini? Yeah. I want to just a bikini also titled battle. Big man weekend show pro show jackpot 25 thousand dollars men's body building in Spain. I'll accompany Spain. Which weekend? Give me, give me a line up. Of course, if the god forbid they release the line up, you know, I don't know why they can't release the line up, you know, two weeks early. So the Chris and I could handicap it on the show. I have no idea. I'm sure it'll be up. They have this radio show. We unfortunately were, you're quite the radio show today before that. But yeah, no, it's going to be a great show. It looks like it's at the Grand Hotel Bali. And they got a really nice website for it to 25 grand plus to give in our pro cards. Another one of these big European events. I like it. It's a great idea. See if they have any athletes listed here. Yeah, check it out. If I were Heidi Schouppen, I would do the open. How about that? What do you think about that idea? I think it's a good idea. You might get a good idea. Right? 25 grand up for Chris going to beat it. Let's, let's put it this way. Who's who's going to beat him? You know? Well, the guys who, the big, the big names of the Olympia are all qualified right. They're not competing anymore. How would, how would Heidi Schouppen do in the, how would he have done in that show that, um, we're a micro lock and beat Sergio? Oh, man. Um, he be no lower than third. Yeah. By the way, Justin Rodriguez through Sid. Sorry, sorry, I don't know if that's true. You just, I mean, Rodriguez is pissed that I think that Sergio deserves to beat him. I didn't think there was like, yep. Let me see if I can find the email. I'll read it to you. Oh, oh, no. He didn't contact me, but he would contact me. Sid and Sid isn't good. So here it is. Oh, let's hear it. Huh, from Justin Rodriguez, I'm going to read on the air. Because since Justin will come into any interviews with anyone, I don't know why, but I've reached out. We've reached out them before. Hey, Dave, um, I have great respect for you. I see your art special programs every day. So we watch this. That's good. And I know you're a master and body building, but I cannot understand how you can say that Sergio beat me. If you're looking for a pose by pose in Chicago, maybe he won in most, it seems a child next to me, the big winner that day was Michael without a doubt was the best man. So Sergio, if you're listening Justin, think you were a child next to him at the other stage. I don't think that happens to agree with that, but how do you respond to that, Chris? I think Justin's a great buy-bill, though. I think that, put it this way. When I saw him last in New York, what he placed in the New York Pearl? You think I can't remember what I did this morning. I told you that. Well, I just, I mean, I, I think that, you know, I think he's trying to buy a bill that just even that. I don't know. You know, Justin was third behind one. Remember? Yeah. So he's right up there. He's going to be winning pro shows next year. I'm telling you, he's right there. Yeah, no, I mean, he has ability to win. But I think that Sergio is better than I do. Pro shows next year. I think he's, I think when we talked on the show last and reviewed the show, I said that he's improved, you know, every year that he's cope and on the scene, which he's been on the scene very, you know, short period of time, but he's improved. And he's got a good structure. His, his, his issue is just, it's not conditioned and it's not maturity. It is like, it's, it's that density has to like simmer like he's a little bit. Yeah, that's what it's called. It's cool. It's cool. Ah, let me get it out for God's sake. I was going to say if it came with William Cinderl. Yeah. In other words, when a came first came out, people would say like, you got to get peeled. I mean, dude, if he tries to get peeled, he's going to probably have to drop 40. Yeah. And people would be like, what are you talking about? I said, it's going to be really, it's going to take some time because he just got big so fast. And it's the Jacobus syndrome when Jerry was like 18, 19, 20, 21. It just took it to that like, you're 99. You don't even took him a while to let that muscle on that frame. I guess you call it simmer. simmer. It's really good. And just get dense and you can't force that. In other words, you can't force it. That was the example with a came. If you try to force it and say, I'm just going to get peeled to the show when you just put on all that new muscle that first two three years that back time. It's time. It's time. That's all. I agree. So, but I thought, I thought he deserved third place at that show. You know, just like I thought he deserved, you know, roughly what he got in New York. I don't think he's being judged harshly. No, I think he's being judged fairly. Yeah, I do. I love the him and the him and the surgery go out of the. With surgery, he has this whole probably starting up the Instagram war again. I'm sure. That's probably why he said to me. I'll get him on the show. I'm going to show. Who listen? I think he's lazy. That's all. There's no reason for not to come on the show. All right, Chris. Let's wrap this thing up. We're at a time until next week. Remember with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pot tart. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday September 8th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. About 10 years ago there was a once in a lifetime Egyptian exhibit that came to the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia where I saw some of the rarest treasures on Earth up in close and personal. But if I never get a chance to see any of those things again, catching MOTFOTORN action might be the next best thing. A few days ago MOTEL released his first update in the early two months where it looked to me like he might be creeping closer to making a 2020 debut. In MOTEL and pro a few years ago he was one of the rare international amateur athletes who already had a huge following. And I think the intrigue about what his future looks like at the pro level has only gone up since then. And now that we have so much attention on the few Olympia qualifiers that we have left on the ticket, if he does decide to drop it to something between now and October. I think he has a real chance to make a huge impact right from the get go. As of today we're about eight or nine weeks away from the Europa pro in Alacante Spain whether we'll be a ton of Olympia qualifications up for grabs, thanks to our provision from the IFBB that we talked about on one of last week's shows. And a firework betting man, I think about laying down a few dollars on Priscilla Limebacher grabbing one of those open spots in the DeCandy division. Over the weekend Priscilla's team announced that she'd be making her season debut in next month's contest where you have to think that she'll be looking to punch one of the last remaining tickets to the O in December. Traditionally Priscilla's always placed well in European shows and since she's so well rested from not competing all year long, you'd imagine that would be a good case here too. So if she comes in anywhere close to 100% I see her as a lot to place in the top three. We'll be now the economist and not seem to let use his what he calls the Black Swan Theory to describe rare events that occur beyond the normal realm of expectations. According to the teleb, when a Black Swan event does occur, the impact is usually catastrophic. But when we look back at hindsight we probably could have seen a coming if we paid attention to the signs. So if you apply to Leb's theory to what might happen in the classic physique division this year, I think it raises the possibility of a former title holder like Brianna Ansley coming back to her redemption. Think about it. In the brief history of classic physique there's never been a time when someone has lost the title only to come back and win it again later, which makes it beyond the normal realm of expectations. But because he has the championship precedent, if he does win in hindsight it's something we should have seen coming. Add that to the fact that Brianna's nickname is the Black Swan and it all lines up on paper. So four months from now if this ends up being the way it plays out, don't say we didn't warn you. For the most part, boxing powerlifting and strongman don't have a whole lot in common. Over the fact that you can't fake being good at them for too long before your opponents figure out what's going on. But since Hap Thorb your and since already mastered two out of the three, you have to think that it won't be long until he adds the sweet science of Pugilism to his repertoire. A few days ago Thor's team released a new video of him working on his one-two combo and preparation for his upcoming battle with Eddie Hall. Now to his credit, even though his jab looks like it's in slow motion, Thor's definitely dropped a few pounds over the last few months, which has to help with his hand speed and footwork. But word on the street is that Eddie Hall looks like a complete savage in the gym. So we'll have to do a whole lot more than slow walk his way through the two punch combo if you want to avoid getting his butt kicked in front of a huge paper view audience. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Ape Lumball reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

10 and 9 You're not an unworthy who? There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents Every muscle What are you? Watch us! Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on the Pulumbo I'm joined by the technician Chris Asito on August 13, 2018 Evening in the Chris Another big weekend in the bodybuilding world Maybe not so big but we had some pro show Action obviously A lot of people don't realize that From this point on after the Tampa Pro show last week There's no more qualifications for the 2018 Mr. Olympia Everything is now for 2019 So whoever wins things like this past weekend and thus forward Even though it's before the Olympia still don't qualify them for this Olympia Do you like that roller or is that not good? No because I actually gave him Someone I was helping one the classic this week Jason And I thought I thought he was going to the Olympia But I know I'm hearing from him From Jason Low that he's not going to the Olympia till 2019 Now I understand why they're doing it because you know Look they need to have a month to book flights and get everyone old Oh he'll ride his bicycle out there Yeah, but that's why they're making me cut off at a certain point But you know what I don't like it because it used to be exciting back in the day You know remember people would qualify but week before the Olympia Oh yes It's not going to happen anymore It would be the tremendous to like a last minute all the time Yeah it was fun I mean come on I mean there's not that many people that I guess with you know You can have 40 divisions in a show and you know It's become more than just one person qualify Plus now with the point system it screws everything up And they can't figure out who's going to be going and not going So I understand why they do it But it's whatever It's a little lengthy, cool notic But I guess you know it is what it is You know the rules ahead of time and you know Hey look the temperature last qualification So and that's the way it goes So but we'll talk about this shows as past week This is coming in a minute I want to do definitely an hour so that the I will be going to the Olympia This year for sure Redcon one an Aaron segment will be sponsoring our coverage So I will be out there haven't booked a flight or anything yet But we do have a few other best possible answers So you don't want to get too big with the Olympia We do have press passes that's a good sign for us though If you have anything released with speed because you used to have I still have some here that Aaron's like like guy used to send me Wanting and I think blackstone I haven't even case I have to pull an all night Chris right over taking a multi-vitamin in 20 years No I believe they cause skin cancer Yeah I've never seen Chris anything you know Remote we bought I've been taking a vitamin in like you know 20 years I know I just said that and I was obviously pretty accurate and I didn't even realize it So yeah it is what it is I get all the polyphenols I need from the Capyp coffee beans Yeah poly canoix Poly canoix You see you know Sid who works for us obviously suit for Rookie My co-host in a couple shows He will be out of the team let me do but he just he's very excited I have to announce that he has softball team won the world whatever the championship I don't know what to it's so funny I always find the whole softball thing so funny But you know people to get into there these leagues that they do you know these softball Yeah a lot of these leagues also though they'll recruit like these ex You know major league baseball players to play these things too It's like very very competitive Especially in New York and I guess there's like 6,000 leagues Sid's team won the league won the championship so he was all the same They won the league championship for the world series Now whatever the one ever whatever the one I don't know the long I don't championship Whatever it is let me look to see what he said What position does Sid play Chris you asked let me guess let me guess Alright let's first you I don't think you'll guess but let me you go first base No, I thought he would be there what's the the guy of the worst position they put him in right field usually Um well that's the worst player I'm just kidding I didn't think so it was the worst player but let me see how long he sent me this pretty funny No, I think it first base because that needs to mix every play Right right right You know I don't even know what's his capabilities are as an athlete to you No I don't that's why first base you just catch you don't have to do much you just cold the glove up He said we won our softball championship today whatever that means they have leagues on one And they're pretty competitive so I'm sure they they were good so I said so I asked him I said what position do you play I said that's the first question I asked him just you and me think the same because I'm thinking I don't know what Sid plays with position so he said he was originally a short stop He said until I literally lost all athletic abilities because I'm going to back to the gym tomorrow So he reinvented himself as a picture he said oh my what is his slow pitch when you do the mob? I'm sure it is yeah, and he said he said he had the best e-r-a in league history this season So he must have knuckleballs and something a stiffball I think it's I think it's the team playing behind the pitch that really makes the pitch a bad good You know because people hit the ball every single time I would think right? Well if it's I don't know if he's throwing a super slow if you know if if he's throwing if it's not fast pitch softball and it's slow pitch Yeah, and he's throwing a super slow knuckleball That's like a bug spun a you can't even you know it floats in the air. It's like trying to hit a balloon There was a picture who used to pitch like they remember Yeah He had a brother his game was he played for the pod race he paid for the roll of fingers. Was it no? No, it was Famous knuckleball Not a film negro not negro Yeah, he grew or gamewood Perry rather, but not them there was a guy in the through the ball in the air It was a it was a long time ago before I died, you know It was like lobbed up in the air and it would come down and it was very hard to pit I don't remember, I'm sure one of our listeners will remind I don't know. I'm just like knuckleball pitchers. Do you remember Marc Feasier? I should talk to the ball. Yeah the bird, right? Yeah the bird Take out stock to the Call the news, talk to the weights before he get on the Yeah, like weights Yep you you you you you you you you you Yep you you you Recallants posted an article online that some of this guy from Jersey the staff there His license was taken away. For, they said he was indiscriminately prescribing steroids to undercover investigators posing as bodybuilders. He had a Kevin Curtis agreed to surrender his license to practice medicine and surgery. The state attorney general's office said yesterday. Physicians who indiscriminately prescribed dangerous drugs for profit are no better than street corner drug dealers. And we will do everything we can to protect our communities from such danger going into the attorney general. Yeah, parks, so you can get parks like, you know, kill like it's candy cane. Can you believe what they're, they're busting this fucking guys balls because he was legally prescribing antibiotics. You know, not even antibiotics like testosterone replacement. He wasn't like writing like cycles for these guys. He's awaiting sentencing scheduled to November 15th this poor freaking guy. You got a jail. Yeah. When I was in jail, there was a lot of dentists that were in there for oxy cotton prescription writing. Dentists. Because they were all, you know, he was a addict too. So he was selling prescriptions. Oh, yeah, to keep him to pay for his flow. He was giving prescriptions to friends to fill and then they were giving him back the drugs. Yeah. The whole bit crazy. Other doctors that lost their licenses or had their license to revoke the according to the state, they list the, the, the, you're all just to plead guilty and genuine to writing illegal prescriptions for oxy codone. Uh, and then build Medicare and Medicaid for it. Another guy from Kate May. Uh, he was writing oxy codones, annexed an animal. That a medical purpose. He agreed to retire. He was 74 this guy. Another doctor. She was doing hormone replacement in estrogen. They said she didn't comply with regulations. It's so disc, you know what, I'm so happy people always asked me, did you regret not being a doctor? I said, you know what, who the fuck hell needs it? Because I wanted to be a doctor that was on the cutting edge of prescribing things that you know, preventative medicine type stuff. And I would have, they would have been all over me probably. I would have had these guys on my back and they would have been trying to revoke my license and I would have to be fighting them in court. Who the hell wants to be bothered with that man? That's not even fun to be a doctor anymore. You got to, if you, that's what really turned me off to being physician. I got to be honest with you, Chris, all they do is push pills for for for symptoms. And they do nothing for preventative medicine. And you know what, they're all afraid to do anything for preventative medicine because it's not in the book. And if something goes wrong or some guy decides to get into sue them, now they have a freaking lie, now they're fighting like for their life and for their livelihood because you know, they're doing stuff that, you know, is off-label, you know, you know, the best way to put it. Look at the poor whatever his name is, um, a mad, like, remember a Bruce Nathor? Bruce Nathor? He would happen to him. He was one of the guys and you were so guys who had done a lot of the gynecromaccia surgeries. He wasn't a great surgeon, but he was very, you know, forward thinking. He would, he would do surgeries that a lot of the plasticers were going to. And he was making money. He decided why he decided to do this. I don't know. He decided to start doing one more replacement before any moment doing it. Growth hormone testosterone placement. He was a plant, he was a plastic surgeon. And he was prescribing it. And I guess he got caught or they, you know, New York is a pain in the ass. It's very, very, a lot of, you know, strict laws there. They've revoked his license. He knew that to kill his wife. He was very, very well known. Oh, I know. You know, it's funny because my sister was running hair removal clinics. It was lazy hair removal clinics at the time. And they were renting his office space in his office. So I used to do them very well. And Bruce's wife would run the office. It was one of the office managers. And so when they took his license away, the guy was like devastated. He moved to California. And they were trying to personal train people. Imagine going from being a physician to personal training. And I guess they just weren't making any money. And it was going downhill. They killed themselves. I think I think his wife did too. They committed suicide. Oh my goodness. I didn't know that. I didn't know that. I know the name very well because maybe how long goes that's has got. So use the nicest guy too. Yeah, I used to see my shows. Right? They blew their brains out of everything. terrible. All because and I blamed it on the eye blaming on the New York state. I was doing, you know, don't harm to anyone. Wasn't right. Why didn't you just stay with the, uh, I don't know. I don't know. People get people get nuts. Who knows? They mean, it was easy money. If I don't start. Because he was started using it himself. And he, oh, I think he got big after one. Yeah, remember he started believing it. He was very, very, very into the whole longevity. And this was before was a little more accepted to it. Yeah. And he said screw it, man. I'm going to start writing growth on one prescriptions and prescribing. Because I really believe in this. You know, but the medical board doesn't care what you believe. They only care what they believe in. And they took his license away. Yeah, said. But that's, you know, that and that's what these doctors, if I, and that's why, you know, you go to your doctor and you're, these people are cursing their doctor. I can't believe we wouldn't do this. He wouldn't write me the description. They're afraid. You know, they don't want to lose their livelihood. They have to, they have families to support and bills to pay. These, I don't blame them. You know, they spent hundreds of thousands on med school. It took them 10 years before they were able to make any money. After going to school, me and everyone else has been out working for 10 years. And they don't want to lose it. And that's, that's what, that's what medical school and the whole medical association is, is doing to the doctors. It's making them scared to, to, to really be creative and to act, you know, how they really want to. And they're making them into little robots. And so robots don't, don't do anything. They don't do any good for the society. Yeah. The only guys that are really, I think who really shine, I like the orthopedic surgeons and the surgeons because the surgeons kind of have a little bit more carpalonched to, to do creative stuff. If you think about it because they're kind of creating new protocols and something to add for joint replacements and all the other stuff that are doing heart surgeries. But anything outside the box, like in terms of keeping people healthier or, you know, doing stuff that's maybe off label with drug prescriptions, they will eat you alive. And it only takes one person. You can help 6,000 people all who think you're God, you're Jesus Christ. And one person doesn't like, you know, the outcome of something that happened or doesn't like you and they complain through the medical board and you lose your license. Yeah. It's crazy. That's, I should've done a rant, that's my rant. Well, my rant. To preview your game, right? You get more and done this week. Another, another ridiculous study came out about saying there's no benefit from fish oil. No benefit from taking fish oil. How big time it takes you to a substance in 20 years? I can't figure out what to take and what not to take. I don't even understand how these people, you know, it's so irresponsible because you get 6,000. Let's go back to that another 6,000 positive, you know, studies about how fish oil is good for your heart and all this stuff. And I mean, the science is there, obviously. And then you get one study that shows this. And what did you see the study this week about, it said, I think the government put it on and said, we should double our salt and take. I'd been saying that for years. I'm serious, did you see that? No, I didn't. No. There's a study out that said, not we could double our salt, but you can safely and actually it is a benefit too, increase in your sodium. I've been saying that for years. I've been seeing what people are taking from, you know, refining food diets. I've been saying that for years. I think there's nothing wrong with consuming salt. Assuming that you don't have congestive heart failure. Yeah. That was the only caveat. It doesn't cause congestive heart failure. But if you have congestive heart failure, you obviously have problems with water retention. So you're not going to eat a lot of salt. But eating salt, especially for bodybuilds, I've talked, we talked about this. You should be downing tons of sodium so that when you pull it out at the last minute, something actually happens in your body. If you're always restricting sodium, the whole diet, then your sodium sets it, and it's really hard to get rid of excess water at the end. It just makes sense and it's all out of gastroenteralyden. You know how the gastroenterologist's sodium intake in the body. And if you don't have a lot of it, you have you, to high-end gastroenteralybles. And so that's never going to let you get rid of water. If you eat salt all the time, you're all lost, you're going to be loved. I mean, if I had stand-at-fitting on it, we did a great interview. If anyone has caught that interview with stand-at-fitting, it's really, it's really entertaining and informative. And he was saying, you know, he's a big advocate or a vet too. We both agree on that. Just he believes in sodium loading, like before you go to the gym, because that really super hydrates your body. You know, because it'll allow you to hold fluids. Because a lot of times, if you're eating low carbs, it's hard to hold water on your body. Which is, you think is a positive event, but it's really not for athletic performance purposes. You know, because if you're even five or six percent dehydrated, your exercise performance goes down by almost 20 percent. So, you know, hydration is huge. Not totally good. Not totally good, you know, 100 percent right. Anyway, so this stupid, stupid study. They say, well, you can't prove it. The official does anything. So, therefore, it's probably that doesn't warrant you taking it. You've got to prove it. You can't prove it. You can't prove freaking zero benefit. It even says this study. Well, you can't, you can't prove zero benefit or zero risk. But our statistics indicate people just more on. Someone else sent me this thing. He's a study on a bodybuilder who was 60 years old who got a heart enlargement after heavy testosterone, snake hole. And it didn't experiment he was doing with stem cells. The guy was injecting himself with stem cells. I don't even know where he was getting him from. Oh my god. Ridiculous. What are Ridiculous? Frick him. You read the study you'd throw up. I'm not even going to it. The thing he was injecting stem cells. It's a quasi-sauce. What the fuck? First of all, I'd love to know where he was getting all these stem cells from. They're really expensive. And maybe robbed the fucking stem cell way up or something like that. Can you imagine that? Unbelievable. You have the same thing if you inject stem cells into your muscles now that the could possibly increase muscle size. Well, I just sound so like, and it sounds like, I don't know, sounds like one step beyond growth. And why not? I don't think people would do it. I mean, I can't say you think about it if you damage. If you go in train, legs real hard, then you inject stem cells into your legs. Would you grow new muscle? Maybe you would. There you go. I'm giving you guys a freaking, it's going to be my next, I'm going to do a separate video about that. I skip my heart. I'm not sizing. Get his opinion on it. Yeah, let himself. Boston, go and check six million, a million stem cells into your body every day. Think about that. That's the next thing people will be selling. That's what I said. That sounds great. Think about that. I wonder if it's illegal. Are they going to say, well, this is a prescription only. Like, if you decide to grow your own stem cells and make it a little lab in your house, the back room, forget sinful. Just inject stem cells into your arms, right? All day long. Yeah, I'm injecting three CCs of stem cells. You know what's going to happen, Chris? They're going to figure out a way to make them really cheap and grow these things. People have fish tanks in their house. They're going to have a fish tank for stem cells. Meas and animal stem cells. You buy a little bit. You get how you buy seeds. If seed you're lawn, you buy a couple of sample vials of stuff. You put them in this like, broth and a fish tank like in your house. You just breathe these things and then you just bottle them and you start selling them. Well, I'll be sure you have to keep them. Sure, you start selling fake stem cells. Of course, not sure they were. Absolutely. Or dead stem cells. Then after make like a, how I can have the right test, I don't have to have a stem cell. I don't have a stem cell. Step cell. Test kit to make sure the stem cells is still viable. Think about that. Certainly we increase potential to get bigger. Might not be a bad idea. People injecting stem cells, you know, now into their pet, scalp to grow hair. But I haven't seen any evidence yet to prove that it really works. Believe me, I'll be, I'll be going to the stem cell. That's one thing I'll spend my money on. I'll definitely get stem cells injected into my scalp if it grew hair. Forget about it. I mean, you got good hair. You don't care, but that's something I would try. No doubt. I know people that have had stem cells like infused it through an IV into their body. Like thinking that wherever they have a damaged organs, that these stem cells would just migrate to and just start repairing them. It's possible. You know, I guarantee in the future they'll be doing precise like micro injections of stem cells into the various organs and stuff like that, repair, even the brain may be, you know, like, I know they were experimenting with that with Parkinson's patients. We weren't trying to inject stem cells into the substantiate nigra, you know, portion of the brain with the substantiate nigra cells that produce which produce the dopamine. Because that's in Parkinson's, those cells die for some reason. And they can repopulate those, then, you know, they could potentially cure the Parkinson's. I know it wasn't too successful 20 years ago, but I got to believe that we're probably at a much better place now to do that. You know, they can do it in diabetics. They can replace here your beta-pacratics cells. The problem of diabetics is they have an automobile immune disease so that what happens is the immune system destroys the cells after they regenerate. So it's important. You have to keep taking the stem cells or that. Well, they've got to see around a way to suppress the immune system. It's suppressed that one, that one immune cell that happens to be going crazy and destroying the pancreas, you know, the one immune cell. I don't say do that. I think diabetics will be cured. I think we already have to take an allergy to cure it. We just don't know how to stop the immune system. Autoimmune diseases are big in this country, you know, now they've really between rheumatoid arthritis and renaud syndrome and soagreens and, I mean, you see, speaking about all immune and diseases, did you see the company that makes round up with suit for $289 million? What's round up? That's a weak killer I use. Oh, I thought it was the bed bug killer. No round up is said, you won't use round up? Who knows, you think I do it? I don't do anything myself and Cardinal who does it. I don't know what they do. What do they spray for weed? Round up is the great. You spray it on weeds and they die. Oh, they do. And why they having problems with that? I got it. I got it. Apparently it causes cancer. My mother-in-law told me never used round up. Of course it does. What do they expect? It kills fucking all the. Look, they cockroaches have lived since the dinosaurs. We can't get rid of these fucking things. If we find a spray that kills them, don't you think a kid's going to kill everyone? Of course it is. Yeah. But kills a cockroach. You don't want it any way. You're freaking food, you're your kids or anything you're breat. Because guaranteed it will kill you. It might not do it today, but it will do it in five or ten years from now without a doubt. I see also new news that New Jersey talking about outdoors stuff like round up. New Jersey now has flying ticks. Flying ticks. Round up. Fly. Hmm. Do they carry these? They apparently, well the flying tick comes from Asia. Don't they? Don't know. Don't know. That's all the terrible bugs come from Asia. It's pretty. It's the tick from Asia that flies has made it found very attractive. The New Jersey tick. Oh, really? So they cross the cross mating in the little time. But it pairs that the new flying New Jersey tick does not carry diseases like the native tick, the New Jersey. Oh. So what does that mean? Ticks are insane in me now. I mean it used to be like, oh you hear someone get tick or lime disease. No, they're everywhere. Do these new ones, these flying ones carry lime? No, it pairs at the flying, the new flying. Yeah. So off-breed, off spring, what have we called it? The grandchildren. Don't carry disease. Oh, that's good. Maybe that'll be fine. If we ever, I always kid David and say I'm dense here. I always kid and say a kid about flying bed bugs. That would be terrible because then they could grab. Because once I went with the, I went once with the bed bug company and I was like, Dave was like, I was walking through like a minefield or something. A literal like minefield like if you and I were out like a war zone. I didn't get a step on anything. He said, they're not, you know what the guy? He said, what's the matter? I said, I want to get a bed bug. He said they're not Mexican jumping peas. They don't just jump on you. You have to get into a bed or lie on a couch. When I'm in a room, when I think that a house or something, it's invested with anything or if I think I have anything in my house, the itching that starts and soos on my body is not, you could take 40 showers. I couldn't stop pitching. It's crazy. I went to the end of court recently. I wouldn't sit down because I was afraid that it was your fiction court. I was afraid that they might be a dead dog somewhere. Right. Pick them up when they're addicted to tenants. Yeah. Without a death. Let's talk about this San Antonio Pro show. It took place this past weekend. It was a classic physique. You helped the winner. Jason Low. We look good. So consistency. What was he in Tampa? He was second in Tampa. I think. Yeah. He was third in Tampa. Third. Right. And he was, I think he was 11th at the Arnold. And then he got 5th at a show, 4th at a show, 3rd at a show. And then 1 this show. And I told him from running into the Arnold. All you need to do is find the right show and you will absolutely win a minute. In other words, you know, you just picked the right show. Right. I mean, last week in Tampa was a 50 person line up. No, it was really good. Fam to come in third was like a big win. It's win. I think in other shows, they didn't really quite know what to do. I'm not with the Arnold. To me, Jason looks like a bodybuilder. Good bodybuilder. This commissioning is freaking crazy. Yeah, I just said, did I just say like they didn't want to do with them? Yeah. I don't think it's some of the shows. They knew quite what to do with them. Like the last who running into Tampa. So not the Tampa show. Right. But the previous two, like I've looked at pictures and say, Jesus, I think you could have been first. And I think, well, these guys had classical lines too. And taller. And so, you know, I can see where this judge or whatever. You know, I can see where they might have had this guy. He had a B.U. Because I thought in a lot of ways, he looks like a bodybuilder. And you know, if he didn't want to show that she had, he was thinking very much, and moving up to 2012. I think he'd be a good two-to-all guy. I mean, he's really tight. I mean, he's got great legs, crazy conditioning. But so he'll be, he'll be in next year's Olympic. I mean, 2019. He said he didn't make getting it up points, and then we're all because he only did one show. I don't know. He didn't do enough show. I don't know where he landed on the point thing. Is there a point something somewhere where I can see that? Let me look at the point. I'm going to look at the points right now. Where do you find a point thing? I mean, PC name, let's see classic classic classic classic. There ain't no, I'm listed. And then it's physique. I'm here at this classic, see. So it's divine Wilson. Aaron Lennon, all more Batista, David Patrick, and Chen Kang from China. There's actually a tie. I go to a union from Russia too. So I don't know who actually is going. One, two, three, four, five. It's the fifth and sixth person or tied. So I don't know. It's funny. The sixth person, it says Russia. Oh, I've been able to, I see they have all the countries next to. Okay. Crazy. A lot of guys in class, the qualifier, the Olympia, I'll give you that much. Yeah, how many people they total? No, no, no, Ferguson, Brianna, and Sleak, Chris Bumstead, George Peterson, Arash, Danny Hester, Robert Thames, Estatimal, Medi, Lorani, Matteo, deep line. Hi, who, courage, or parah, Danny Union, Hithemel Siddik, Steve Lourius, Peter Duper, reading rhymes, Ellie Shem Sharhar, Terence Ruffin. I'm laughing up, I'm looking at the Brazil, David Har. Classic, just people, you know, the classic, I hope they, I hope they. I know people can say I'm full of crap because I help Reagan and they're going to say he's a bodybuilder, but I'm looking, there's people winning classic shows, not in the US. Who are not plastic in anybody? Yeah. Panacee Pierre, Wesley Visters, Khalid, Chikawi, and then you have the top, those top five guys out. It's going to be a great lineup, I get an issue. It's going to be a really, really good lineup this year. Should be exciting to check this out. I'm excited to see it. I think it's probably the the freshest thing to have that because you never know who's going to win, whereas bodybuilder, he's kind of like tied up, right? Yeah. Let's see who else, bikini was one by Monica Ellis, or you look, I'm still totally right, classic. Jason Lowland's Fabio, Lopes, or Lopez, or second. I don't know much about him. I thought he had really good legs. Good conditioning. It seemed like it was a conditioning show. That's what he said. The best ones in the world. They got a secondless peel too. Nobody wasn't really a classic either. You know what I mean? No. He's not really a small arms. Usually class, the guys have the big arms, but he's shredded his guy. I always tell people, like you never know who's going to show up. Sometimes he shows it are not good. That's why conditioning always trumps everything else. No pun intended on the trump. Jason Martinez third. I don't know much about him. David Boy, fifth. He's not a guy, but shred. Every single person in the top five is shredded. The one, Jones, fifth place. He's got a big scar down this abdomen. Really, you must have some serious surgery. Gotta get the story on that. I like stories. Human interest is really what people get inside of that. That's what people like stories. Tony Davis, guy I helped six boys. You know, I always tell people when you give me a speech if you don't know. You're going to talk about just a story. You know, even if you don't even know what you're talking about. That's the YouTube mantra. I mean, YouTube is successful because people just talk on there. And that's the people like to hear. They like to hear people talking. And in bond wins men's physique, Devon Lindner, second-ash when Lucas III, colleague Courtney fourth, and Jeremy Grant fifth, the Keeney one by Monica Ellis, Amy Landry second, and Taliarichards, Nelly Richards third, Joey Riley fourth, Mia Sanchez fifth, and congratulations to the San Antonio people, all the winners. I've had a lot of masters of that. I don't understand the whole master's thing with these brochures because they don't qualify for anything. I like Gary's thing. I like how Gary holds it. The North American, the masters, world championships. What he does is he charges an application thing. We talked about this before. But you win prize money. So it's kind of like paying into the system. You pay in some application money. It's a game life. But yeah, right, if you win, you get it back. Plus some. So I can't wait. It's just, it's good. It's a good idea. At least it makes it exciting for the masters people. Because otherwise, if you go to a show, you get a trophy as a master's pro. And that kind of boring. Yeah. So, because what it is, let's see what else. Oh, now let's go on this past weekend. Oh, the Brazil shows that were you talking about? Yeah, the guys look a little big for. But that was only, that was amateur. Yeah, you too. But they still look big in the classic. Big, like. Yeah, it was classic physique. You're right. There was classic physique pro. Chen Kang won from China. So good. So hard. Nick Comboura. How come all these Iranian guys can go into every country for the US? Because they don't say death to Brazil. They say death to America. That's true. Yeah, so I made a board of Iranian and other Iranian six second and third. It was a week. It was a very, very, very class. I wonder why no Americans went down. I would have gone down. If I was a, I would have gone down to Brazil. Yeah, people go to Americans haven't taken it all yet. That they can compete at these shows anywhere. I mean, well, when you have, you know what the problem is? They had the San Antonio show the same day. So I mean, it's like, but if I was trying to figure out how to get a qualification. Yeah, I mean, it might be, but who view to like take a trip down there? And sometimes, you know, you don't go down there because the judge is different, you know, and they, they, you know, they judge differently. So I guess, you know, it's a, it's a pretty big financial investment to have to go to Brazil to compete. Yeah. Then, it was equal to one of my Carlos Day, Oliver, from Brazil, pretty much all of the resilience. Edvin, Palmeira, second, and it was the name, right in the third. So it's basically our Indians and Brazilians. They had a pro bikini, Elisra Pesini, where we know the terrific Brazilians bikini competitor. She wins. So this is, I think, a John Lindsay show. John Lindsay muscle contest, Brazil. He's spreadin' out his wings all over the world now. I know Tamarale, good to you, is orchestrating all this, but, hey, you know what? I love it. It's a great idea. Why not? We're sent to be on these people on Brazil and they come up the stage. I don't know. I don't know if anyone's probably interviewing at all. Who has the time? They're too busy, they're, they work to try to get the show over with. Showing the things so long, right? They get, you don't get any of you. You're lucky. You're lucky. We have a show here, you know? Just for those people who have been asking me about when the next, the secrets that becoming a diger, of course is, you're holding it in a Cape Corolla, Florida on October 20th at Saturday, October 20th, you guys have to sign up at Davepalumbo.com. There's limited seating for some reason. I don't know, this is always a busy, this course is always a busy one. The October one. And I've had a lot of million people asking me about it. If don't wait, I'm telling you guys, I know a lot of you out there have been asking me about it. You better sign up because I don't want to hear anyone complaining if I run out of space. Because this one's usually a popular one. I think people don't like to do that to the courses over the summer because they're like, it's a dieting for shows and the vacationing. But then once this full comes around, everyone's like trying to educate themselves and figure out how to make money. Because they spent all their money over the summer, you know? It's tough in this day and age to make a living, you know, for us. It's, you know, it's just... I just want to work. We were talking about that earlier. Well, that, and just think, I mean, it's tough to make a living because things are so expensive. And it's just right into a father of my son's friend's father. He's got a heating and a condition in business. You know, he works 60 hours a week because he's got a lot of kids. 70 hours a week. You know, people say, I work 60, 60, he says, no, no, no. I'm out of the house 70 hours a week at work. Sure. He's got five kids. You know, the funny thing is that you and I probably work more than that. Just because we're in our house, we, we, we, we, we realize we're working that much. But like how we know, right? We don't work that much. It's done thinking, well, I worked like 18 hours a day. So well, how is every day? Seven days a week. What does that add up to the 80 to four hours? Then you just do it all over again the next day. Yeah. Yeah. Well, just one day, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait. It's one day blends into the next day. Yeah, we know it is. I'm like, I'm so happy, like, at three, 30, the morning when I finally answered that last email. And I know as soon as I shut my computer down, I'll have 10 more emails, but it doesn't matter. Like, I've caught up to the day. Yeah. When I finally catch up and do the last email, I'm like, all right, I can go to sleep. Well, there is no real catching up. Yeah. It's like the post office. It's the never stops the mail. So I'll go upstairs now, you know, to get before getting the better going to the bathroom, I'll see the toilet, whatever. And I'll look at my phone, which is the worst thing because now, now I see 10 more emails. Because now I'm like, all right, fuck, let me just get these 10 emails. I can't go to sleep, but conscience is knowing that there's nothing waiting for me. Which there always is because, you know, I help people all the world. Like, I'm sure you do. We're going to sleep there already while they're waking up. So it's never ending. It's never ending work. You know, it's just even when I get to a point that we usually do a lot of recording on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, sometimes Thursdays, or TV recording. So I'm like, don't let that on like, oh, they got it. I get the weekend now. But it never stops. Monday comes in and it's like, shh, it's starting to roll up. And I got to start just thinking, oh, who am I going to get the interview? What do we got to get on the thing? It's like, never stops. It's like, you know, I don't have people, you know, say it helps a little bit, you know, pretty much. I get the, I get a lot of the people myself, we're going to interview for the show. Are they contact me? But I'm always setting up schedules and I have all these little notes all of them. I don't write notes down anymore when paper I have in my phone. All right, this guy had two o'clock, this guy had three o'clock. And of course, I don't remember anything. I don't go back and check it. I'm like, I tell these people, text me in the morning of the interview, or my auntie. Yeah. It's amazing. We get all the interviews. We do it. It really is because, um, you did that. Did you get Henry P. other's week? Yeah, we did. Luckily these people actually want to be interviewed by me. That's a good sign. Yeah. You know, I heard that big Rami's no longer on the contract. Did you know that? No, I didn't know that. Yeah. I thought it was a good. No, with, uh, with, uh, am I? Well, there's no shingles in my animal. Well, they still have some, they still do have some contracts. And it fills that under their contract number. But I know there's a couple of people that still are, but. Rod, you get fill, when you get fill out. I am. I'm working. I'm going to set up a minute of sending, uh, an email and gives my, he, he, he basically wants to see what kind of questions I'm going to ask me to. I don't have a card. It's okay. Sorry. And, uh, what about Rami? What are you, Rami? I was going to tell you. Let me text him right now. Hold on. I'll actually get a live. Tell me what to interview before the, Okay. Hold on. Let's see. And tell me that's nothing to do with body, but I just want to know about, like, fishing and stuff like that. I don't really want to know. I want to know about, like, what do you, when you used to fish back in, in Egypt? Okay. Hold on. It's all right. Kim, Tom, welcome. Tell me what you even talked about to your one bit. Not even a stream. He wants to interview you. The topics about, What, what, what, what are we getting on here? The most, the most popular fish to catch in in Egypt, you know, fishing and fish. I'll just some fishing, it's just favorite topic. I know. I know. And even ask me about it. That's why I got to ask about it. I'm going to do a whole show on the head of catch. He's probably doing cardio. Let's see how long it takes him. See, Ronnie, Ronnie actually has a skill. How many body balls I think it's, say, they actually have a skill. This guy, if body building ended tomorrow from he can go back and he can become a commercial fisherman probably and then make a good living for himself. He's obviously going to be different. He's content. But I'm saying he can, he can feed his family that way. I mean, that's, there's four seconds he hasn't returned. Maybe, maybe he's texting beta. Beta. Priced just text me. Said. Take what's anime. You mean. Well, no, I'll let you know if he responds. Yeah, I'll tell him to tell beta. I know interesting talking about the L.D. or body building or anything. Magic mirror is enough. And I just wanted to talk about fishing with him. That's it. It's all interested in pretty much. You know, I did a rant, you know, day on different testosterone esters. Yeah. Suspension propane and anti-sipping. And I, you know, I basically included. After, to what 30 years of knowing about steroids. Yeah. They're all the same. And there's no difference. Well, testosterone is just having to say. Well, how can we make an absorbent. We have to get up the long ones because the water. Right? Yeah, the difference is that everyone's taking the short acting ones every day or every other day. So it's the same water. It's, it's, it's, it's no water. You know, it's, it's, it's testosterone. It doesn't matter. I mean, I, I don't understand the water. Like, people don't understand that you can get, if you have no fat on your body, then water disappears really easily. You know, when you stop drinking, the energy, the energy, the energy, the direct. So it's just, the whole thing is, if the people just don't know anything about anything, it is, is the problem. And so I want to explain my life. Double-day, because I like it nothing about nothing about that. The problem is that we all were, we're brainwashed. And even today, people brainwashed people that you have to use, like you said, certain esters, it's two times the year. And it's just not, that's just not the case. Because you and I know the one guy, we always know that that one guy from the gym that said they competed on like two, two, C, C's, it testosterone a week. And that was it. They never took another drug. And they looked at a major drug. They were destroying people on stage, you know. Yeah, just I have no money. Just two, C, C's, it testosterone a week, you know. You know, that guy or the guy who took a half an anodrol day, you know, for six weeks before it's shown. He looks like he could win the Olympia. There was a lot of those guys back in the 80s and 90s, you know, there was a lot of it. All the time. It's just, you know, there's a huge genetic component. There's a huge component of how hard are you trained and how do you eat? And the bottom line is that it's not that difficult, guys. It is nothing that complicated. If someone makes it that complicated for you, I remember I was doing, I think I had to get who I was filming. I was filming someone in the supermarket. And we were buying food. And I forgot, I don't want to say I know who was coaching them. I don't want to say because he's going to have a nervous breakdown. I probably can guess I can get it. Yeah, he could. And he was making him eat like white rice at one meal and the next meal he had to do brown rice. And then another meal he had to do, keen one and then he had to go back to white rice. And there was some ridiculous explanations. This was in the same day. It wasn't like, you know, all right, off season. I do brown rice, well, because they're white rice. It was like the same repertoire. Like it was so complicated on my guys. I said this guy. I said, it's just not this complicated. I don't, he's like, yeah, I'm just listening to him because he's telling me what to do. I said he's making complicated because he wants you to think that he's smarter than you are. And he's really not. Let me, can I guess, can I, can I text it to you? Yeah, text it to me. Okay. You know, I'm going to guess it right. It's not the white car and the dry car person. No, I know that. No, I know that. Kristen, I have all these, you know, before the show started. I guess it, you were right. You were right. You're right. Great. But for Chris, I started the show. I was just telling me before we start the show. Well, the time we always talk and my, and my recording program, on the Mac, it records. When we're soon to Skype, it's up. I said, Chris, man, if we ever released the show before the show, it would be way, way more popular. And we'd also be together better. We'll be ban for life from everything. And everyone. They get's not some, not mostly, but all of the, potentially devastating gossip. Like if you want to like blackmail people, people think I have a big, people think I have a big mouth. I don't tell anyone anything. You know, I don't say anything. Listen, the off the record stuff that you hear, that people tell you that you don't call that they text you. They email you. You know what a lot of it is to, because they want you to open up a mouth to and say, of course, because they don't do it. Of course, they want me to spill the beans. I don't say anything because I think it's humorous, but I'd love to talk about it because it's so, it's so juicy a lot of the stuff, but it's, it doesn't serve any purpose, obviously, but other than to be a TMZ type of thing. And that's not what I'm trying to do. We're trying to be teach people stuff, and we're trying to like, an analyze stuff. Yeah, I mean if someone, if I see someone doing something that's not right, I'm going to point it out. I'm all about injustice, you know, exposing injustices, speaking of which, who was the competitor that candy with? Oh, forget it. I'm telling you, you know, I, people, you know, obviously the empathy in assholes is coming up now, right after the Olympian, you know, remember, people, yeah, people, you know, I have a lot of clients and there people ask me, am I going to go into the show and I'm like, no, I'm not going to go into the show because Steve Carroll. I'll go. Well, you can go, you want to. I won't go to the show anymore because I, oh, Steve Carroll. Yeah, even if I, I'm sure they'd give me presents. Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'd be thinking, but I don't want to go. I won't go because I said, what are you, you know. I'm not going to the show because I'm not going to deal with Steve. I don't even want to look at Steve Carroll's miserable face. I shouldn't have to even waste my time doing that. So, it's a shame because they do like the nationals. And I think it's a great show and I like to see everyone last show of the year, but I won't be, I'm not going to go at a principle. I'm boycotting it. I'm not boycotting it with my athletes, I'm boycotting it with myself because it's the athletes get treated. You know, well, they don't really get treated that great, but at least it's a terrific show to be able to, you know, turn pro at it and something like that. One of these days they'll get rid of Steve Carroll, and they'll get a real promoter in there, which is pretty much anyone else. Anyone else can do a better job than him. And that's it. I'm not going to even bring it up anymore. I'm just telling them, I'm like, going, what else do I want to talk about? Did you see my interview? Oh, yeah, the interview with Henry Pio, Pierre and I, I was up already. I'm surprised you haven't seen it. I've been tuning in yet. No. You're behind. I know. Kids. I did a great show with Iron Raid with Lee Priest also. People should check out. It was on ridiculous, fair diets. Speaking of which, Lee is really funny. I gotta say, Lee missed his calling and life. He should have been a comedian. He wouldn't have been, you haven't seen the Steven Wright type like comedians, like the real offbeat humor. That's the kind of stuff he's got. He would be great. He just sees all the crazy shit that people do and he just notices it, you know? And none of what has that ability to do that. That's what's served. Yeah. Did you ever see the absurdity in my, I didn't really get an interview to it. I forgot. I did it a couple weeks ago. We just put it up today. It was another interview with Carl Anor from Superhuman Radio. I'm known call for 25 years. It was on, we talked about pretty much everything. We talked about how he thinks you can cure the bubble got. That's the big topic. Can't be cure. Now he has some theories. So he has a few more points. Well, what does he think of food allergies? Now, I'm going to let people move to listen to it. It's interesting. His theories are interesting on it. But I believe it's a lot of, I think it's a lot of, some of it's some organ enlargement, but it's not permanent. I think it's a swelling of the organs. A lot of it's, I think, a mental fat. You know, underneath the, you know, underneath the, between the, I guess you could say the rectus abdominus layer or the transvers abdominus any organs. This, this, this, this is a layer of fat there. That's growing. I think that that's part of it. And I think it's just a lot of muscle. You know, that the guys have. So, but he has some other theories. So, I'm not going to ruin a few. You guys watching. I interviewed all the guys in one of the USA. Most of them contacted me. So, if anyone wants to see that, even though we weren't at the USA, there we got all the interviews. I'm getting, and the men's physique, I'm getting the overall, this, this week, you just contacted me. It's great. I love the fact that these athletes actually want to be interviewed. You know, it's so funny how these promoters say, they don't care. You know, we don't care about these, they, they're, they're interviews. You know, and we want to get contacted by all these guys. They may not want to get that face care. Yeah, well, I'm, I'm, well, this is a distinction. Yeah. You know, I mean, that, that is a sad commentary that some people don't care, but the athletes care. Well, think about, I've been asking for, for so many years now to create a press section that all these shows where the press can interview the people backstage, you know, and, or even, or even sidestage, you know, and it means that the people want to jump through hoops and run to lobbies. You know, that was the, that the problem with the whole NPC, Nash was getting back to Steve Carre. If they would have had a press area there, I went there had a problem. They went down a problem, and me and it would have been easy. But they still won't do what I told them to do. What I suggested they do, which is just to make a press area. I don't know what the so difficult about it. These athletes want to be acknowledged, you know, and, yeah, hopefully, it's, I don't understand it. Even if the Olympia, I understand backstage is too busy, but, you know what? Create a little press area in the lobby. So these guys can come out and get interviewed by everyone. I mean, come on, they won the Olympia, the God-Sex. Yeah, it's one thing to get interviewed on the TV broadcast. That's fine, but these guys want to be interviewed by everyone. You know, I would, if I want to show of that caliber, wouldn't you? Don't you? Don't you? It's good for business, whatever one's seen. It was interesting for, it's good for the, I mean, it's good for the athletes. This is missed to whatever easy one, but it's also good for, I mean, it makes the athlete, which the winner is, right? Feeling good. Not like a, arrogant way, you know, not arrogant from someone doing the interview from the athletes perspective. You know, you want to feel, it's not validated, but, you know, you know, it's like they, it's kind of like, this day, which is version of like, a newspaper article. You know what I mean? You do something successful and the local newspaper or newspaper, you get an article in the paper, and you can show your family or whatever or your friends and your people helped you and it's the same with winning a bodybuilding show. You know, you want to do an interview where you can say, hey, check that out. I talked to, you know, I said thanks to the gym. Thanks to the love of a lot, I'm trading part of it. Thanks to, you know, my guru. My guru. Who I need to pick the girl, of course. Right. Right. Exactly. I believe me, I've been hearing from a lot of people who have been having a lot of problems with coaches lately and I don't even know if they tell people to be honest, yeah, I feel bad. I feel bad for them, because there's a lot of coaches that they don't know what the hell's going on. Text me a couple of names. I promise not to even though you mentioned handy-same of the quinilar. Well, that's a part of it. Yeah, but I'm just saying, guys like him, there's no problems. I'm talking about these new gurus like that are coming up now. These guys that have coached four people, you know, and they're just trying to make a living for themselves. And you know, I understand the whole concept behind trying to make a living. But, you know, if you don't know what you're doing out there, you're doing a disservice to people. And I see a lot of people being, I don't know if I would say hurt, but they're time-wasted. A lot of money being spent. And they're not really getting really with their looking for. Well, they get custom diets. Yeah, they get a couple of diets. Oh, my God. Yeah, you know, I did a whole ramp on that. We talked about that last week about how these people think that, you know, there's some kind of unique dive for every single person. I, you know, I sort of, I'm not going to even say who he was. He's actually a friend of mine. I feel bad, but someone sent me a chance. But I, I'm not going to say that. You won't get to speak. You won't get to speak. You won't get to speak. But this guy said to diet to a kid, who I'm not coaching. It was so complicated to diet. That I, I was getting it. I was getting it. I was getting it to diet. I was getting a headache, reading it. Like, it was like, so detailed. And so, Well, I sent a diet to someone Dave about three months ago. And the guy flipped out on me and said that it was not scientific. And so, I agreed with him. But I didn't know what, what I was supposed to do. You know, so I just said, you know, I'll just send you money back. I just, I'm not a scientist. You know the person that real paying in the as a new set of a day. I just don't know. I just don't know any. You know, I'm not going to. You're right. It's not scientific. Yeah, some, some people just just pretty nuts. Yeah. Pretty nuts out there and there. But you know what the truth is? Nothing is that complicated life. I think it's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's what is it. It's just the case. I mean, things are just not hard in life. When it's too hard and it's too complicated, you're probably barking up the wrong tree. And even if you can do it once that, using a difficult situation like that, it's probably not going to be reproducible. And when you have too many variables, I think this is the issue. Here's the issue. When someone creates a diet that's so complex with so many different foods and this and put this in, and I want you to put a sprinkle this and and create yogurt and this happens. It doesn't work. Yeah, that's the thing. If it doesn't work, what do you do? What do you do? The right to probiotics, something. Who knows, calcium. I don't know what people are not. People are really crazy. I mean, if like I said, if you saw this diet, and I can't tell you how many people. And once again, I have nothing, but good stuff to say about like, like, branch chains, amino acids, and glutamine, and create a thing. If you want to use it, new offices, and knock yourself out. I don't know if it does anything more than what you're already taking and then eating, but can't hurt, right? It could definitely help. Pre-contest. I can't tell you how many people's diets it's in. And this, and I mentioned this before. I'm helping a lot of guys from Indiana. Everyone in India is on glutamine, create a team, branch chains. And at almost 20 times a day to take them to stuff. And they wonder why they can't lose any weight. A lot of times, just don't change anything. I just take that out. I just stop taking those. And all of the things that you thought we'd get in shape again. When you consume extra calories, whether it's from protein, amino acids is protein. Your body's going to use that as fuel. When you're exercising, rather than stored body fat. And if you're trying to get in shape, and you're taking an extra fuel, guess why? You're not in a calorie deficit. You're not going to burn fat. So I think that's one, in today's day and age, with all these, like, you know, we have something like meal us come on. He's a great guy. He's smart. And these people here, oh, you're going to eat 40 million grams of carbs, you know, liquid carbs, you know, and take 6000, you know, I use of insulin, you know, pre, you know, pre workout, intra workout, post workout. And they do this, but they think all day long. They've got to be paying in down, essential amino acids and branch chains. And believe me, I saw a lot of branch chains, such an amino acid branch chains, you know, with my, you know, of all product. You shouldn't be banging that stuff down, like it's like it's like it's crystal light before you show, because you're not going to lose weight. You're not going to get in shape. People, I think it was Bob Grushes said, right? Didn't Bob always say, it's good to be hungry. Yeah, yeah, it's good to be home with that. Yeah. Doug went to the bank for me, because he's just, he's always say, you always have to have something in your mouth, you know, because I was doing a few extra shakes here and there. I was helping him once, kind of he gave me a Grushkin diet, you know, and it was working. And then also, I wasn't really getting really dry. Bob would just say, stop eating, stop eating all this. I remember he, he reading too much food. That's a Doug said to me, he gave it to me. You know, he was like, you know, he had that, and it's like, you know, he's right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. He was right. been right there. It was like it weighed him, great, it's like no course, instead of leaving. So he wanted to open me up. And then he wanted to be on theINF. I wanted to start learning and he wasn't. I told him. One of those people Kniesman's were like, you know, He's just sitting in front of me. That was how he worked. Cool. That year, like, he couldn't guys talk about how he was going. He was putting him back. Did he have kids that were going to teach? You went to the operations center. feel good. You should feel depleted. You should want to eat everything on the on the Chinese buffet. That doesn't mean you should do it. I mean you should feel like that. That's normal. Yeah, I'm stopping all that food. Bob would say. Think about it. I mean the guys that are suffering the most and who have that like that Ethiopian look to their face you know with the hollow cheeks. Those are the guys that are the most dangerous on stage. Aren't they? Well they're easily. Well they still like they still are. No, I mean yeah, I mean I'm just kidding. You know a lot of people do. You don't have the fact cheats up and told. L'Avroni never looked big and close backstage, you know, the show. The next or never looked big backstage and close at the show. The next is looking big right now. Dude. Yeah. I haven't seen this way in a few days. But my point is that you know that it's when you have that when you're in shape where you're ridiculously peeled. You only see it when you take the person's clothes off. Yeah, actually it might even look small and close. The guys that look huge and close are always the guys that are out of shape. Well Henry P. was he's not he's not big anyway. Who'd break it? I had one who hears this. But I said hey I'm you know I'm coming in around your time. I'm gonna wreck the car and I'll pick you up at the airport. I drove by twice. I picked him up on the third time because I couldn't find him. Because he was to be didn't look like. Because I was talking for like you know I mean I was just looking for someone like a big guy. He was just hanging out on the corner. No he just blended in with all the people waiting from you know in a t-shirt he looked like nothing and he won nothing. What does that mean? What does that tell you? What does that tell you? Tell you what does that tell you? Tell you it means that getting shape man. Get your ass in shape. Suffer. It's about suffering. Yeah well you always say suffering is good for you so which is I would agree with. My free contest you shouldn't feel good okay I remember and I don't know about you you can give me your own you know insight. When I would get down to that last two three weeks I couldn't even sleep at night. I was you know people can't sleep in their eyes. I would be up 40 times going to the pin going to the bathroom every two minutes. I was I would be pacing I remember when I stayed in Ed's house two weeks before the for two weeks prior to the USA in 95 I could or maybe 96 no 95. I couldn't I was I was going crazy I felt I had no place was I comfortable we would go I would go out I was walking around beach I was trying to stay busy during the day you know be to in between meals and I just I was so uncomfortable I was like like crawling out of my skin but I was so fucking lean you know there was not an ounce of fat anywhere in my body I was like fibery hard and nothing felt good no matter what any of the touch my skin irritated me including the sheets on the bed and that's how lean I was when you guys get that lean out there then you know you're in shape you know that's when shows and you know that wasn't because I was a guy I had a gifted metabolism that was because I suffered I had a gifted metabolism and I suffered and that's why I got to the level of of leanness that I did you know people think if you have a gifted metabolism you're not a diet no it just of me it just means that if you die at heart and you have a gifted metabolism you have to look ridiculous just like you die hard and you're getting ready I mean just no because even Ronnie Coleman yeah Ronnie Coleman has great genetics probably what's something the best genetics and all body volume but if he didn't train the way he did and eighth the way he did okay he worked to bend Mr. Olympia he just would have been another guy that that had a potential you know right I mean how many guys you know I said it say oh remember that guy remember Edgith Flatcher oh man he had good he had good he will yeah Edgith Flatcher didn't get a pro card because he was a fucking a nutcase obviously he's just a cheat on his diet J.M. used to tell me that they used to see him from the NPC gym was up on like the second of the third floor of this building and they see Edgith sitting on the street corner you know like two days out I mean a week out from like the nationals I eat and like donuts you know and any of you guys out there who remember back in the Edgith Flatcher was a freaking certifiable freak-as-o-a-dell I mean what if some of the best genetics I've seen and body-boy you know yeah for sure the year he should have won the USA I believe was that to you you knew him and won it he was he he didn't make it through pre-judging right my making that up you're a core me or one why did he cramped up right he cramped up but he was unbelievable that yeah he was that's where that famous friend told by said picture comes from yeah unreal his waist was like yeah back in the past he had a crazy back in yeah totally Jimmy up arms yeah even though they weren't Jimmy up another one say look Jimmy up yeah they were huge his arms yeah great back hit a little bit of a long torso but he'd amazing quads and but he never gotten shape after that after I think it was afraid to use diorudics after that but his glute was striated he was nuts I remember my friend Doug Wins was in the speed Doug's figure Doug he was in that show he's like Edgar Flatcher was at pre-judging when I saw him at the way in and at pre-judging he was unreal that and I don't know what happened he goes he's really cramped up or whatever he almost died or something like what did he ever have I want to say 93 he was at the year dentist yeah yeah yes I think you're right 93 USA yeah we knew Orleans unreal never one but that's guy who didn't had great genetics who didn't didn't do what he needed to do didn't want to suffer maybe it was afraid to suffer but he's to cheat on his diet I like I said I've confirmed people who saw that so once again getting back to what we were saying if you want to be the best you got to be willing to go to that point doesn't mean you have to be stupid and do you know dangerous things I mean you have to be willing to suffer to the point where the other people would not be willing to go I was willing to go places no one else was willing to go and that's why I beat guys I never should have beaten in shows and I didn't do I instead of the same thing when I interviewed him he said there's no one who could have worked harder than I was no one was going to go where I was going so I knew no one was going to be in bed or shaped in me and I knew that no one was out working me that was that was a that was a powerful mental advantage I had over people knowing that I worked harder than them and I felt the same way and I I don't I never heard Dorian say that but I kind of insinuated that that you know what this guy's a workhorse if I work as hard as Dorian who's going to beat me you know if I if I can put on the muscle I need to put on you know and I didn't have the structure of Dorian I didn't have the structure so these guys but I still beat a lot of guys I never should have beaten just because they weren't in shape you know I beat out of your flexor you know a couple shows that he was even terrible shape you know for and I think that's that's a huge you know if you're going to do this sport and you want to be the best and you got to be willing to go there don't just find a coach who gives you a program that you that makes you feel good oh I feel much better on this coach I had energy to train I got to pump in the gym pump in the gym doesn't mean I can anything the last fucking four weeks how lean you are is what it's about it's not about getting a pump in the gym how many pumps did you get in the gym crisper before you can be I'm just thinking about someone just told me they got a great pump I don't think I don't want to think I'm going to be in shape no I mean you're lucky if you have one good work at every like you know every six workouts oh I had a good workout I don't know how I did it well you know what Chris gave me you know 50 grams of carbs he last night before begs I'm like I was going to die you know sometimes you get a sometimes you get a good you know you can get a great pump on just no carbs sometimes you know you know you know it put an extra the tablespoon of olive oil or macadamina to your meal before bed you wake up the next morning you're like you feel like you just ate 16 cheese burrs you know and you know sometimes you know what I do is I and I'm treated the same thing you do with muffins I do with cheese burrs but I'll make you know some of my guy suffer suffer suffer suffer suffer and then just when I could tell they're on the brink of almost like dying you know and they're like ready to give up I'm like okay I want you to go I get a double quarter pound of a cheese and fries tonight what what yeah I didn't know this is yeah sure yeah I know I could say go eat it and they look amazing you know you might tell me to muffin whatever but that's when that meal like that will actually kick their metabolism even to another gear but it's only after you've suffered for a long time that you can actually do a meal like that you can't oh you know what it's been two days I've been dying hard you know I'm gonna have a I'm gonna eat a I'm gonna go to you know the Chinese buffet and and load up you know because I have arm data marah you know can't do that I can delusional if you think you can do that but that's not a big deal you mean you're it's you know I'm done you're right I mean it's some of the you know it's funny some of the Some of the best looks I know of help people with the camp from like the most crashing diets right you know you have kind of weeks again I'm ready and you just crush yeah just just No just I mean I think a lot of times I see people on Instagram when I see like crushed I know someone's so I'm helping he still fat seven weeks out but he can crush diet you know to me not crushed diet but you know gas so when you need to yep you gotta be willing to go where no one else is willing to go if you want to be the best and that's the best advice I can give people you know if today show you know people are like the quarter of the week that you know this is you're getting a show of advice this week you know because it was kind of like it wasn't a crazy you know heavy week on contest competitions but you want to have to be the best bodybuilder out there you gotta be willing to do things that other people not want to do and that doesn't mean risky dangerous things I think people get that confused oh well I'm willing to take 100 I use a GH day now that's just that's stupid you know that's not suffrake it means going without it means suffering you know when you don't want to suffer it means if you have a full-time job still being able to get all your cardio and get your meals and go out of the gym and work your full-time job and then come home and and take your kids that's what it means that's suffering that's that's that's that's soul suffering and you know what the great thing about it is and the reason I why I was able to get through all that suffering and I'm sure you're you're nodding to yourself I'm sure you went through the same so because you know it's not gonna go on forever it's only a temporary thing think about it I mean think about the guys who have to go to the army you know in fight wars that's gotta be way more dramatic I use that as an analogy from some people I said I'm dead Sarah says you're not going to war right you're not gonna tell you I could shot what you're going to watch just you know you just dieting hard for a couple more weeks right I mean come on you can't you can't give up the pleasure of eating and just doing what you want I have I have a couple clients they're like I I have to work all of my my colleagues they go out and have a drink you know it's up like that I feel like a loser I can't drink I suppose then you don't want to lose weight obviously because if you drink you're not gonna lose weight you're not gonna get in shape you know obviously you're not willing to make this sacrifice no matter how smart the diet I give you is you're still gonna this still components of sacrifice right you gotta give something up if you want to lose weight okay you can't have it all you know so funny Dave is you know I know genetically probably has a you know he can get a great shape but um it won't create I always had to like suffer big time to get in shape and he was always in shape which tells you people I was like he's like oh I wish I could get lean like him you know and you know I would forget sometimes you know you know it'd be like seven weeks out and I'm thinking he's still checking like what do we do last time and then you know I was done a mess and I asked what do we do he said oh are you you know you try to kill me and it's okay we'll do that again I have a lot of clients like that and you know and it's funny because a lot of them have no problem with suffering and they may not be the most genetically gifted guys and they may not ever you know win a pro show but these are guys that are doing well because they're they're out conditioning people and they're they're maximizing their genetics and that's something that you have control over you know you can't control who your parents are and what they gave you but you can turn the control how you look on stage and what kind of commission you bring to the stage and if you find a coach who's you know a lot of people will leave coaches who push them too hard because they don't like the way they feel but you know I'll treat this sometimes it's necessary you know no I'm granted sometimes people overdo it but but you got to know what to pull the trigger and went to and went to not pull the trigger and that's what makes a great coach too obviously knowing when it's time to make the person suffer you can't just make someone suffer for 16 weeks straight you know you you it's not gonna be productive but if you want to be the best in the industry or be the best in your class or the best whatever the Mr. Long Island show you gotta be willing to do things that other people aren't willing to do and sacrifice that those things and if you're not then maybe it wasn't cut out for you you I always to me I always feel like well why why can't you be happy or best I mean You know I I've told a lot of people hey I don't think you should do this show you and I could be ready for it and 50% of the people listen to me and we we change the day to show and the other 50% of why are you paid for the application of people family going to see it I got to do the show and like all right whatever you can see it on top well it's just that some people it's not that important for they want to be their best but this this is the best that they can do and that's fine you know not everyone has the has that insane desire to be crazy I'm saying they just want to be good you know they just want to compete it doesn't matter if they're if they're I always say you're a better good is the enemy of great true true when they want to be good good is you know a lot of people good I just want my kids to stay I always tell my kids this is who cares about the good always I tell them tonight who cares about the good you know which means just pick something anything that you want to be great it just pick something can be playing the casoo yeah and then you know it's like when you really like something that you really like you know that you really love to do but you want to be great in there's no better feeling than going to a show and going to that way taking your clothes off at the way and because I don't know if they still do it anymore they're probably not they used to have when we were competing up until recently until they had a thousand people to show you know they would call the way class so our heavyweight's up step up next and never one would take the clothes off and it all the competitors we're seeing around looking at are who looks good there's so and so there's there's Chris Cito there's Dave Plobba there's what ever running common and everyone's looking at the guys lining up they're all waiting online to hit the way in it was like a whole big psych out thing and the judges were all there looking who's going to look good and it was photography for the magazine taking pictures of all the competitors and you know you see so and so they check this picture out you know it was a big it was a big my fact is nothing better than going to that thing and knowing you're in the best shape of anyone there it's the greatest feeling it was the one of the things that always made me really feel good at the end of my toward the end of my career I was always the biggest and and and and hardest guy there like I said maybe I didn't have the best structure of everyone there but I was certainly size wise had had most people beat and I had them unconditionally so I was at very very big confidence booster for me to go into that take my clothes off in the way in there knowing I was one of the head probably the heaviest guy unless there was some guy like six something six foot something that weighed a little more than me but usually those guys were out of shape anyway so I was always the heaviest guy and then the most shredded guy so it was a to me that was a big you know mental boost for myself and even before I got to that point I would do shows where I knew that all right I wasn't the biggest guy there but I was shredded you know people were impressed and it's like you did your homework it's like you got there and you knew you did all your homework and you didn't have to fake anything and then it's the guys who like are trying to like pull last minute pull water they're not in shape you know I got to check out the tricks you know you probably know how it is shift around yeah shift shift to interstellar water right the extra cellular into the interstellar you feel like you're a fraud there you don't even that's a terrible feeling so take home message today guys don't leave anything to chance give a hundred percent remember after the shows over you can eat whatever you want the pain will go away the suffering is done and it'll all be worth it because you work the whole year for this one freaking show give it a hundred percent of what you got because you know what if you do that and body billing it will transfer over into life and you will be a success at anything you set your mind to doing and on that note we're out of time until next week remember with heavy muscle radio the truth hurts in that room

10th and 9th You're one and only two Every for two guys who can't hit a tree The truth you can't handle it from what we can't be Lomble Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle Leo Watch us Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on Dave, Lomble and I'm joined as always By the technician, Chris Asito on this August 10th, 2020 Evening in Chris Wow Big announcement and sweet Finally You have an abate You have an abate The fourth child date Okay No he in the Olympia Now it's the Oh my goodness You surprised huh? Not at all You didn't predict that though No I did not predict it Usually you are pretty good In the predicting he's Yeah But yeah he's in Where's your take on the whole thing? Well I mean this is just total Conjection Of course But Phil He's already gotten into it with Brandon right? Yeah Or war words And Phil probably looks back and said I would have been Brandon if I was there I'm sure And then bills come in And bills come in We won through we 52 after the After his lost eroden up the week 104 And he says you know why not do it So you think it's a money thing Well it's always a money Well no I should say it's always The money doesn't hurt I don't play it But I think it's a little less Because of the money alone But I think that in this case Outside of the money Phil wants to prove That he's the best bodybuilder in the world Still Still So But the money factors in for sure Because if the money was only like 80,000 It'd be sitting on the sidelines If the money was 120,000 It'd probably be sitting on the sidelines Maybe So We have a weird year You'll empty take place at the end of the year We have possibly a lack of people in the lineup Because we don't know if these international people can get over here The bone acts and ramies And you know there's a lot of great Really winklers A lot of great guys in this line I think might not be able to make it But I mean they might, they might not And Rodin, we're not sure if I know we want he wants to do the LMP But the case doesn't settle We can talk about that a little bit But I mean who does he have to be? I'm not sure He's actually Jackson He's beaten Yeah, he's beaten him before Easily Easily So he's obviously the guy to beat And you know if you put him in last year's lineup He might have won But he means he might have won I mean he probably would have I mean we don't know he would have won Look, here's the thing I think it was a good move on his part I hate when people give up money It bothers me If I loosely, I'm like, I could have made four inch of it The bottom line is that I'm taking the year off Chris People kind of forgot about the fact that they didn't like him And I don't know why they didn't like him Whatever the case made it seem Whatever they perceived him as being He wasn't, you know, they always start to hate all the champions at the end Because they think they get sick of seeing them Whatever you're Now people see him as kind of the savior of body-villing Films coming back Yeah, we want to see Phil get that number eight Have you felt the sentiment changed towards him? No, not really Honestly, I don't think the sentiment has changed I completely think I think people are very good I didn't know that I'm coming back It may be excited about him coming back But I think the sentiment has not changed with regard to people like Phil I don't think the great I think people are excited about it I think the people are excited about it No, no, no, no, there's a difference between So what, what does change in your mind that now you like Phil Well, I didn't, I never dislike Phil But I'm just saying I, you know, I thought it shouldn't One of few times, but that doesn't mean I dislike him They're genuinely, I mean I went to the interview to vote it like him They're genuinely people out there who don't like Phil I don't know, they just felt like, you know I feel, you know, we wanted to lose, you know Well, you know what? People don't like Phil because he's arrogant Is hell But he has a reason to be arrogant I mean, there's, you know, it's one thing People hate somebody who is arrogant And they can't deliver the goods But, you know, Phil I guess the word's arrogant I have no problem saying arrogant You gotta be arrogant to win the Olympia, right? You gotta be confident yourself But he backs it up Right, Jay's got a confident, a Arab out himself Yeah, but that's different, that's different Well, Jay's just, Jay's a, has a better delivery You asked Jay, he was competing, who's going to win the Olympia He wouldn't even hesitate to say, me, you know That's arrogant, I mean, it's, it's not, it's just confident But he wouldn't have meltdowns You know, he wouldn't have meltdowns Well, press conferences win Now, because I look really good And I'm going to win this year Jay's just very good at handling himself Politically speaking That's, that's a skill he's got I mean, not a lot of people can handle themselves With that much pressure When you have the, the world of social media on top of you You got people asking you a million questions And, you know, they painted him as a bad guy in that film And, you know, generation iron, you know, so He had a lot of, you know, there was a lot of pressure on the guy And he just, he's not as sad as Jay is I did not make people out there that are Ronnie Hammel, the, the Heightman hoop, I remember There was no social media when Ronnie was around But he handled it because he was, he's so laid back That, like nothing bothers him, you know Yeah, well, you know, that's different Air of confidence, you know I mean, you'll see the, you know, the supporters For Phil, they'll come out of the, you know, the woodwork As a shell approaches and the, you know, the haters will come out But the haters are wrong because you can't, you know, Hades success in his physique Right I mean, he's, like I said, he's always delivered He's been the most consistent body go there In the last 10 years, bar none, including Dexter Had Phil come back the next year And rodent men in the show Don't you think the fans all would have been rooting for rodent Oh yeah, because Phil was still on the Height train But for these guys, yeah, yeah Now, he, after a year off, I know people have such a short memory Oh my god, guarantee people will be cheering No, they would be cheering because he is the guy Up there who has the most amount of Olympias You know, he's, he's competed You know, for 10 years, 14, 15 years at the highest level You know, he's no rookie He's exciting to watch Absolutely So of course people are going to be excited about him Right, but he, but they went to Bennett But I'm saying they went to Bennett as excited If he would have just come back the following year And rodent would have been, he's titled it It would have all been rodent He would have been hugged it, yeah, yeah They would have been hugged it, yeah, you'll come back Yeah, they would have been mad at him all this year Yeah, yeah, that's right They would have been pissed at him And so, you know, this is rodent's show, right? You're sure Now rodent, no, no, no Phil also has this new relationship with Danny Garcia And the rock, you know, they're, Danny is his manager Danny, Danny, Danny, the XYZ rock They have a production company together They just bought the XFL for Bolvian Yeah, that's right That's right, man Yeah, I want it, what do you think the motivation behind that was? For Vince to sell it or rock the body No, for the rock to buy it Like why do you want it for Bolvian? Um, you know, I don't know I can say this, it's exciting to own an entire league Isn't it seem to have a lot of stress Not if not if you can delegate the stress and get people to run it for you Or content Right And, you know, regardless of how much money the rock has What's really exciting is to own an NFL team So, right, it's so easy It's so crazy, crazy expensive now Even the, I mean, the valuations are like I don't even know what, a billion enough I know, it's not right It's just made it a by team 15 years ago for, you know, a quarter of that Right, less than that So, I mean, what if you, you buy the XFL And it takes off and you have your own, you know, league Right You have the country, there's nothing better than controlling everything from beginning to end I haven't even been following it I remember when Vince launched it, does it do well? I mean, did it have like I don't even know, I just know Vince launched it with like Vince and from the, from what I've read, Vince wanted it Thought he was going to compete with the NFL Right He was going, going, ho on it And then I was surprised it You know, that he sold it But if he could've sold it, seeing the writing on the wall in terms of Okay, what am I going to have it? There's no baseball has no attendance Right And if that has no attendance NBA has no attendance Sure Why am I going to like launch this at a bad time I mean, Vince has bad luck launching bodybuilding I know, remember when the money is stuff went down with Hulk Hogan Yep That could be day with the steroid charges and stuff That's right Then he had the fold up the W, you know, the bodybuilding league That would be F, yeah And then he has the XFL and here he is, you know, holding this up I mean, it's a fold, right, when you sell it And $15 million is not a lot of money No, we have to definitely cost a lot in that to run that thing Probably But he's a genius when it comes to wrestling He can't do anything wrong with that He's so good at it And obviously now triple H is there helping him run it and Stephanie and the whole families of, so I mean, there's nothing, they don't even need to do anything else I mean, there's so much responsibility with that alone I don't even know why I'm going to want even I always, I always ponded with this Because I like to make money Just like I know you like to make money Because anyone who doesn't like to make money No, but I mean, you like to do big things You don't, you take risks and something that you buy big buildings You know, I take my own risks, all right I like to, but at the same time, I am so busy And now with kids and you guys can just talk about this before I can't, if someone came to you and I say, hey, Chris, We're going to give you the New York Giants Okay, but you can't sell, you got to run it You're going to be 50% apart I'm going to be a crisis, I don't know if we can, I don't even know if we can do it I said, don't even know if I want the responsibility Well, I would take, I would take responsibility No, but you know what I'm saying? It's like, after a while, it's like, you know, How much more do you want to do? I mean, it's like, I always, I'm always amazed by people who just continue to do I mean, I'm creative, I like to do my own little projects But I don't know if I like the idea of the burden of responsibility over so many people Well, the time factor, right? The time factor, how much time do you have in a day? I don't know if we can do it. Just think, how many hours a day? Four hours a day, so you have a 20 hour day, you might not sell the kids, you have two minutes left. Yeah, no time enough. You know what it is, Chris, maybe once, because their kids are all grown, They have like more time on their hands and maybe they think, well, I, I'm not spending time, my kids are doing their own thing now, you know, I don't have to worry about them, so let me just, you know, Let me get another project, you know what I mean? Yeah, I, I, I just spoke to someone who is like a real estate, I don't love mine. Mm-hmm. And he can't comprehend the idea, I said, I have four kids, So, you know, because he's critical of me. And I go into defense mode of how many kids do you have? He says, no, I said you have no idea. The freedom, I said, you get to wake up whenever you want. Right. You've never had kids, so you don't even have a adult because he's older. You don't have a girl, kids calling you. Yeah. You know, it's completely different, it changes your life and your, You can't say no to them, it's not like it's not like it's like someone A pain in the escrowel, jep on the phone says, hey, do you want to come over and, And you really don't, you know, like, no, I can't do it. Yeah, if you kids say, I need to go here, you got to a car drive for you. Yeah. Yeah. My daughter says to me, I want to show you something, I can't say, Not now, I have to go see it. Yeah. I'm busy right now, show it to me next week. All right. I plan, I plan to do it a treat today. I had bought this mulberry tree, Amanda loves mulberry trees and I was in this low as, Like, one of those stores, whatever. And I saw this mulberry tree, I'm like, I took a picture of her. She's like, bye, bye. The thing, Chris, the thing when I bought it, I didn't realize how big the, The base was of this thing. I'm like, how the fuck am I, I'm sorry, boarded. I'm like, how the fuck am I going to get this into my car? Now, luckily I have the X5, but it's, it's not that big. So, if Amanda were done, it there was to be a stitch and dirt anyway, but, you know, I'm sweating, it's hot out, I'm like, I'm like, man, and I'm like, I'm, I've become my fuck. I turned, I turned, I turned, I really turned to my dad. I lose all patients whatsoever. I think I'm alone, I'm not yelling at anyone, he's throwing me all of it. And I get the car, I'm reclining the seat, the second row of seat. I can't do both of them because I got the car seat or the kids car seat, I'm one of them. I lift this thing up, like, as I'm lifting up, I'm like, my A-order is going to rupture something like that. I just, I could see it already, something like, I'm trying to breathe while I'm doing it. I'm like, don't hold your breath. I'm like, this is the car, if someone would have a video camera, would have been hysterical. So, I lift this thing into the truck. Of course, dirt's going everywhere in the back of the truck, I'm like, fuck it, I'll just back him when I get him. I don't care at this point. I had put some plastic down, but it's not the plastic I've moved aside. So, I get the thing in and I'm like, all right, it's not all the way in. It's not going to jam the thing. If Amanda was to ask you to be screaming at me because I'd be breaking the branches up, I'm like, no one's here, no one's leaving the note. I'm like, I squeeze it into the car, so I get this thing home, right? Of course, but it was raining. It's such raining while I'm doing it, too, of course. I get home. I unload it, whatever. It's sitting in front of my driveway now for two weeks. So, I got a plant at, right? That's what I bought the tree for. So, of course, I picked the one day because I've been so busy. I'm doing it today. Kids are in the pool. It's got to be 97 degrees out today. She's like, why do you have to do it in the middle of the day when it's hot? Because I said, there's no other time. You know, there's no time. We have no time. We can't think of that. That's because you choose to have no time. My bet is the answer. Go ahead. Because you've got to go play with your snakes. That's the usual reply. But so, so I go out there. I get the wheel barrel. I put my monstrous tree into the wheel barrel. Get the shovel. I pull it out across my property. Get a big piece of property. She wants it on the, like the, the property line. It's the furthest point from the garage you could possibly get. I've dragged this thing out. I'm, I'm already exhausted. I'm just pulling the cart out to the, as is the property. Now I got to dig a hole. I think a big hole because it's a big tree. It's not like a little plant on the ground. So, I started digging. The grass is like a rock. Okay. Luckily, I got two shoulders of ways. Now I got new shoulders so that I could do it. I, I start digging and digging and I'm going to pick my time. And I get down to a point where I'm like, I only need to go another few more inches. So I can get this, I'll, I'll be able to get the pot. And I hit, I hit basically. Sennet. That's what it feels like. I hit the rock and your broth. There's no way the shovels going through this rock. Okay. I'm not, there's no way I'm digging another hole next to it or near it. At this point, this tree is going into this fucking hole. One way or another. So, I get the tree and so the trees, like a little too tall for the hole. So, well, no one, make it sure no one's looking. I'm pulling off the roots on the bottom like to make it shorter. Yeah. I can get it in the hole. How, I took so much dirt out of the hole. How I didn't have enough dirt to fill in in the hole. I, I don't know where the dirt went. I'm like, where the fuck did the dirt go? Blow away. It's impossible. I took out a ton of dirt. So, I get the thing I pack it in and I get the hole. And I get a drag the hose is not on a water, right? Because I, I watered the thing, drag the hose back. I go to get in the pool. I'm almost ready to pass out. I'm like literally, I'm completely become my father. I'm like angry and I'm like sweating to death. And you would have thought that I, I mode 41s. That's how much work in it. It only took like probably 45 minutes to do it. And so, in the pool, we get out of the pool after that. And I'm in the house. And we could, it's hard to pouring out. Like, that got to do it. So that was my, that was my exercise that, that, that, that was huge tree. I would have just had, you know, I would have pulled it out of a ton deeper or a hose, wherever you got it. And I know my, I would have tried to put it in the car. And then I was like, too much work. I would have called someone, bringing it to my house. I can't do that. You know what I'm trying to do? I'm trying to plan it and I call someone say just plan it. Well, I could, I would have done it. But see, if I do that, I'm in the things that I'm like, it's not, like, you're ruining the whole process. Like, it's one thing to have a big palm tree planted. But like, she thinks like, I, like, I pay everyone to do things. I'm like, I do. I said, I had my time's valuable. I've got to be in the pool. I wanted to prove, I wanted to prove to her. I could plant this fucking monstrous tree on my own. I would have just paid someone just like you. And I would have felt better about it. I would have been enjoying it. I would have loved the idea of not having to do all that work and be in the pool. You could have filmed the whole, you could have filmed the whole reality show around me. Go and pick the tree up and bring it back and planting it. It could have, it would have been rated. The ratings would have been off the charts on it because it was a. You, you would have said, you see the fill. He said, if you, I said, yeah, I got 30,000 hits. I'm a planted the tree 300,000. Yeah, exactly. So fill my go back to the. You didn't mention curry. I used Mr. Lumpia. Right. Don't lie. I mean, he's the guy to be. I mean, and with, obviously, flex Lewis entering the show this year. There's another guy in the lineup that we didn't have, you know, the last time around. A lot of people think he, when the Lumpia. What do you think about that? What's your feeling on flex? What do you think he's going to fall? I think he's going to fall in the first call out. And that. There will be a get favorable calls closer to the middle than he probably. Should be. What do you think will be a strengths and weaknesses? Let's look at it for now. I'm still turning it into a very strong gluten ham show, which is not gluten ham. Right. Two body parts. Strengths, standard relaxed. Strengths is back double. Weakness is. I'm going from how he's looked to the past, right? But that, you know, he had to suck down, you know, think as one of Karan, you know, like you are doing, there's a freak show, you know, until he had a naked weight. You know, the, I think the weakness is probably side chest side tricep. Absent dies. Because of his height. No, I mean, just close your eyes and, you know, picture what a side tricep look. It's really just standing like he doesn't hit one. Yeah, I'm going to just throw this on down there. Yeah, and he doesn't have, no, no, when he turns, record his towards the front. Oh, okay, okay. And he doesn't have great abs. And his side chest, his legs look thin on surprisingly. And you might be eating all those words when we see what is then, the unveiling of the new, flex, loose physical. What's undeniable from, I mean, those are his weakest shots. I mean, side tricep, abs and thighs. What does abs look like? You tell me you can't tell me because they're not strong shots. It's not a side of strong shot from. A shot's a very, very strong firm. You know, keep in mind, right? He went up against Hardy. They both were the same weight. They both were on. Mm-hmm. So I think the comparison would be, you know, you have to get by Hardy before you get to someone else. It's the same thing, Hardy can make it to the show. I think he's chosen to be a hit. Hardy's not the show. I might have been wrong until. Now, here's the go. I'm the percent right last year. So, yeah. Let me ask you this question because, you know, I kind of pot through this out there when I did my RX muscle update report when Phil announced. I said, you know, kind green is it. And I know we keep throwing high green out there, but we have to talk about him because he's an interesting character. His motivations are very driven almost like, like, in books and movies, right? He needs some kind of motivation to do what he does. Phil coming back to the Olympia would certainly be motivation for kind of come back because, look, if Kai came back to Olympia and beat Curry, for instance, and no one else was in the line up. People would say, great, yeah, Kai's a Mr. Olympia, AA, AA, but hoody beat, right? But if Kai comes back and beats Phil, his archnemesis, now that's a start, right? That's a German, that's a, that's the end of Kai Green's movie right there. The life of Kai Green, that's a great end, right? Yeah, that would be the, um, you can't write something better than that. No, no. The only, the only crappy part of that is, is it would be in front of like 11 people if they don't have an audience with you. Well, I don't think there's a person in the bodybuilding fan on the planet that probably wouldn't by the paper view for Kyvers Phil, right? I know, but nothing's better than being there. True. But, you know, look, it is what it is. We got a, you know, we bring up Kai's name a lot of you do. Yeah. A lot of it, I think, is just to make front of a minute in a fun way. I'm not making fun. I'm not making fun. I'm saying this is a great traumatic reason to put on his posting suit again. I'm going to send a group of you. You know, with Dan and Jake Wood, they're going to roll out the red carpet if Kai wants to come back and they're going to put out whatever money these to be put out there on the table for him. So it's not going to be a money thing. If not going to, he's not going to feel disrespected. He's got motivation now to go after Phil Heath, stopping from winning eight Olympias into when his first Olympia and establishes, you know, basically, say, he has my legacy. I'm leaving behind. It's got every making of a, of a rocky movie. Yeah. It's, it's the, it's the real movie to the crappy generation Iron movie. I just figured the real ending, right? Yeah. You know, if you could film a day. Yeah. Right. If you could film, I got through anything. This is the real, this is the real thing. Not just the made up story that they try to, the manufacturer. Yeah. Yeah, it would be phenomenal. It would be absolutely phenomenal story. Even if he did win of course, just the whole idea. And I don't think wins. And I rock you didn't rock the first rock you movie, but everyone's still love rocky, right? I mean, he didn't have to win. He just to show up and make it make, make this Olympia that we thought was going to be probably not even half in because of the whole COVID thing where the whole half the season got canceled. It could, it could change the scope of, you know, 2020, you know, going in the map is one of the greatest Olympia of all time. Yeah. It would be phenomenal. It's like bringing back Ali Frazier, you know, or some wife, or Tyson Holyfield, which we might see also. Yes, right. Obviously, see that. That fight. It's Tyson Roy Jones. I think come up. All right. Is it for a majority? I think I'm not. Yeah, I think you're right. I think you're for a Joseph. But still, who's not going to want to watch that? Yeah. I think that kind of an impurity of their sonal Samuel Link to the, Yeah. She was, I want to take a break. But I mean, it's, it's like, you know, Tyson is like, is like, I mean, Kai is like Tyson's like, you know, Tyson's. Yeah. Tyson. I just put the gloves on again. If you can see Kai put the posing suit on one more time, come on. Tyson in a, have a matchup versus like Tyson Fury. Yeah. Just, after the paper view would be crazy. Even if Tyson lost it wouldn't matter. Yeah. Well, the thing people would believe, from being into it, right? The Tyson is still going to continue to do it. Yeah. I've seen videos of him. We can do it. Well, I mean, you're, I mean, like, this is not a good analogy because George Forman wasn't 50, whatever, five years old. But when Forman came back and made that kind of like people thought it was the biggest joke of all time. Yeah. He was like 300 something pounds. Well, but it being was fat too. Yeah. And Forman just, he wouldn't sit down between rounds. Yeah. He was fighting the biggest lose. I remember watching Mike, my dad loved boxing. We would watch these fights and like my father loved the call people fat. If they were out of shape, which is funny because my father wasn't in the Great of shape either. But even I look at this fat. So what does he do when I said that? I don't know. He sees, and he's winning fight after fighting. And he was fighting like once a month, if you remember. Yeah. Yeah. Because he had to go to the top of the shape. And then he got, I think he got to shot it someone. No, no, I think he fought Tyson. Then he or something like that. And he was like, he probably killed him. A holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, holy. He went to the defense. I think, right? But he didn't. Yeah. And then he gets to fight with more. And it was like, that was like another rock. And like, and everyone said it, and even Teddy Atlas is in the corner with his fight or more, more. And he's like, stay away from this guy. Just trust me. You got to fight one already. Stay away from him. I've seen him fight. He's got to knock out punch. It doesn't matter. He's 45 or 46 years old. And he's a little, he's a little overweight. If he catches you with a, would a punch, he could not knock out. That's right. He got caught. And he got caught. And he, anyone. I mean, that was the greatest thing of all time. And Tyson, like, says, man, and form was a hated champion. And Muhammad Ali Biedam, you know, he was also a misunderstood angry guy, you know, and When it came back, he was a beloved. Oh, yeah, because he had the forming grill. And it was like, he was like, you know, everyone's a grandfather, you know, that kind of thing. So I'd love to see Tyson come. And that actually, I'd love to see Kai come back because, and the funny thing about bodybuilds coming back is that there's no physical contact on on stage. You know, so it's not like they got to worry about getting hurt or something like that. Yeah, we don't know. Yeah, that's true. They could, they could, absolutely. Which would make it even more exciting if they had actually probably. Yeah. So I mean, we're probably going to have to settle for a curry. Dexter. So, you know, that's going to be our top three probably. Unless we can, unless somehow, if I were bone-acquired, I would fucking move over here. Wouldn't you? I'd move to the restaurant. I'd get on a boat now. Yeah. I think that's a big boat or something like a cargo boat. Yeah. You know, and I think the bone-acquired matches of goat-a-teeth. Bone-acquired. I don't even curry. Well, they have different things. They have different things. Yeah, different things. And, you know, you got to see these guys in the lineup. Just, but the fact is, Phil, and he's got to be considered the face of the favorite actually. The overwhelming favorite because he's won so many Olympians. Yeah. I mean, you can't say, Brian, you curry, the current Mr. Olympia is the favorite over the, how many times feel 17? Seven. Seven times Mr. Olympia. Do you think Phil comes back smaller than he was? Bigger than he was? How's the abdominal area look in your estimation? If you had a girl? Do you have abdominal area cannot get better? Yeah, I look excited. At all. So does he come in smaller than trying to make it better, which is usually a mistake. And then he usually looks worse when they do that, but yeah. Well, the flip, you know, you stuck between a rock and a hard place. If you try to come in smaller, it might look worse if you try to, in rounder, it may look worse. You don't know. Yeah. They got a tough job him in honey because they got to try to figure out a way to figure out a formula that's going to win the show. Not that's going to be the best film, but that's going to win the show. I think that's what they have to go out there. And that's going to depend on who's in that line up. Hundred percent. Hundred percent. Who you stand and that shows always, you know, at this point, you know, it's going to be how people show up at the show and how Phil shows up at the show. Right. They still judge it. You know, they've, I'll never forget. It was like 40 years ago. We did the preview show there. To, um, do you live here in 2018? We had, um, sit two days before the show and about three days before the show in my room. And, um, I had already seen Shawn and thought, you know, okay, it's going to let me show her. I mean, in my mind, this is, you know, the open. But I said, you know what? Everyone said, Phil, Phil, Phil, you go to the press card. And you go to the press conference, even the other competitors with the Except Sean Phil, Phil, Phil and I told Sid, you know what? Sid. The good thing about the judges though, is they judge it. Yeah, they'll judge it. And that's what they're going to do with Phil, um, Curry, Daxter, whoever's in the show. We don't know who's in the show. I've bone-act shows up, Randy shows up, or probably shows up. Who knows if they're in the show? Where does he get how much of you? Where does he get the judge? They're going to judge it. Where does Randy qualify for the show? What show is it? Can he possibly do this? Um, is there a European show we can do? I think what's going to happen is that going to have to take, who's, who's one shows this year, which is what two people, one person, two people. Yeah. We have, what we have to choose from is the Arnold. And you take what? The winner only, right? Yeah, well, they have the point assistants, as they got to top five point getters to, that'll go. I mean, there's not a big crowd in the Olympic this year. So I think they're going to have to go back to. Curry's, um, qualifier already bone-act qualified, hot-ish-up in his qualifier, Daxter, newly, Heath, obviously, Sedrick, Nathan D. Asha, one crowd. He's got to lose. 10. Do you want to have a little bit of just 10? Why not? They're going to get a couple more, right? They're getting to your pros going to be in Tampa. Yeah, you got to get your pros. We got Hunter this 12. Right. We got the, the Cal Contest 13. Anyone else? Any other? This is Chicago Prashow taking place. You know, okay, yeah, so yeah, that's an off 15 people's enough to have the show. Yeah, I mean, there might be a couple more than that thinking about, but. I think five of it. I mean, I can ram you qualify. Where's he going to qualify? Chicago or, or I'm going to get to Chicago. He gets on the boat with bone-act. I'm going to go. There's a travel ban against European's, but is there a travel ban against people coming from Kuwait? I don't think so. I don't know. Maybe a data conflime in on his private jet or something. Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's not like BD Dwee Cooper, whatever the guy's going to. I can parachute him. Yeah. Yeah. And you're like fourth parachutes with random. Because you'll have black and white people. Black and slimming on the New York sand. You'll have like the way you've been to them. Yeah, right here drop them over here. I'll. We'll do an interview with them before the power. And my house. We got a great big shower. With Cam. I don't know. I didn't. I forgot about that. I think I think you can come from Kuwait. Think, but not you. He's the only one who doesn't seem like he's qualified. So. Right. Am I missing anyone? Is Dex from that line? Yeah. Yeah. He can do it. Yeah. I think Ram is the only real top name that has in qualify. Yeah. The Olympia. I mean, if Kai wanted to do it, they would give him a special invite. So that's. I thought there were a he exhausted his special advice. I don't know. You think if he calls them Dan, it's a Dan. I'm. I'm taking a second. One more. We'll give you one more chance. It's like, it's like when you can't do. You know, you don't really want to punish your kicks. You're you guys are going on a trip or something like that. And you keep threatening. He knows that he knows that he can get away with it because he knows you're going on this trip. So. Yeah. Wait, you're threatened with something like outrageous. Yeah. There's a monster out there. If you don't behave, I'm going to send you out. The yard. Yeah. Well, and it's my new thing is I tell him I'm going to send him to the. I feel bad because I really like the name is him. You're going to go to Carroll and Cindy's house. You're going to spend the whole day with them. And they're going to make you they're going to put you to work. You're going to have to dig in the garden. You're going to have to clean with them. And they got a big scary dog in the basement. He doesn't like. He's like that's cool. Look, look, I'll bring my blast. That's his he's obsessed with the guns my son now. And we don't want to be guns. We don't want to play with guns. So I don't know what I'm this. It's a second amendment. First of all, second. Yeah, give him a moment. Tell him that he's going to get out of like legos. And he's got this blast. So now it's like we have to take it away from him. He's he's that of his mind. He puts my head he assassinates me. But the thing. My sister told me when I have kids, I'm never going to let them have toy guns. He thinks he teaches him a wrong thing. They had guns like rifle. Yeah. He watches all the videos. You know, the Nerf guns. That's the new big thing. And he wants a Nerf gun. And we won't get it from him. Because I know that he'll take my eye out. He'll take my other eye out. You know, that I only have one get up. I'll be the one who gets shot. Of course. With the Nerf. You have to be on, you know, when you're tows when you're out of one they have guns. No. He'd ask me to pull with it with the squirt of guns. Oh, yeah. He loves that. Yeah. He likes to do the sneak attack too. Sometimes he'll jump on me. I think I got a big neck. My father's always like, you got an important Navistron neck. He's right. I didn't know what our rabbit was. He didn't have his big neck as chromatamin. Oh, chromatamin. He had a 12 inch neck. Twenty inches. It was. I was born with a 14 inch neck. Yeah. I still have a big neck. When you have a big head, you have to have a big neck to hold you. You have to hold it up. Hold it up. Give a big brain. So you have to write. That's right. I got to pull that thing up. Did you see that video I sent you on yourself? Which one? The pointy. Yeah. Did you know about that? Of course. Someone posted a recently and sent it to me. Yeah. That's a good video. I'm going to pull that pull up. All right. I got to talk. I'll give you the cue. This is this is Bob Gruskin. Like crash prep. Oh, yeah. I was thinking of it today. Oh, it's really going to find this thing. It was put up recently. Yeah. Yeah. Very recent. No. Set up the show. I'm looking for it. Okay. I think I was doing like a photo shoot for Black men. I think it's really good 92. And I went down to Bob and said, Oh, you look really good. And they said, yeah, Bob. And so they had like the Nabi USA and whoever won the class or something. Like a sick or something. Couldn't do it. So Bob says, I'm the president. Come on. You come with me to England in three weeks. I'm like, Bob, I can't do it. Count us in three weeks. You know, we can have to help me like every day. And so maybe it was like five weeks or something. And so I let him, you know, Jeff Bob just do your thing. And that was it. I went down to the Saturday weeks. Did you die for? Well, I was already in pretty decent shape. But I died. It may be like six weeks. Right. And I was in decent shape. I was in good shape because I was shooting something for Black men. Oh, did you win this show? No. Where had you placed? I got like six. Oh, really? You look actually pretty good here. Yeah, pretty good. And how old are you? I look like Barry to me. Yeah. I'm good. I'm good. Good routine. I can't like how we go right there. How old are you? Perfect here at 24. That's probably Dave. So that more arms can know and laugh. I guarantee that is no more than 250 tests in 200, pretty much a week. Garanty. Yeah. Garanty. Because I was, yeah. Were you in college ahead? You got an out at this point. I was out of college. I was hoping you made some of those in Maine. Are you adding on the California? Or are you? No. I just like moved back to Maine after. Oh, college. Sorry. Little bit. Where was this general board city this season? No. You don't remember where the 92 Navi universe was? Oh, England. I'm wearing England. I thought you said that you felt it. Yeah. Mohammed Mustafa won the class. I really, wow. Yeah. That's fine. Yeah. I went back stage. Mohammed Mustafa was like this. Bob said, ah. This is Bob. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh. I'd say. You make a yours. Good job. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. This is Adam kid looks great. Dave, I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding. Next thing I see. Mohammed Mustafa. Yeah. Why the percent of all he's pumping up. No. That's that they used to do that backstage, yeah. Lift up. He was pumping up. Mohammed Mustafa. Bob's like you want to light. You got to light. Bob was smoking. No, I know Bob smokes. Better say you're not backstage. He's backstage. Yeah. That's why I had the pen and my mouth and meditated Bob. Like the European era. God, I look small. He's like, my. The funny thing is when I went to the one show I told you in Spain. The one thing about European shows, I don't know if it's still that way. There was no way our conditioning. People were smoking cigarettes like it was at a going outside and everyone was walking around completely naked men and women. No one had any clothes on. Oh, it's pain. Yeah. What should you go about? The women's show. So there was no man but there was. The world would collect it. The world and the. Yeah. I see you're not walking around naked. I said you go to the stall. Yeah. We're Americans. We're fucking we're we're up tired about you. You're not up tired. You're not up tired. I'm up tired. Yeah. But there was girls walking around naked smoke cigarettes. Everyone smoking and no way our conditioning. Swell, certainly. Middle the summer. Yeah. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's your. That's kind of. And that was He's got guy. So so. So that's the. And of the time, sort of. So what are you. Seeig. I'm a m and I'm a guy here. And I'm telling you сов top platform. And so everything's good for me. Yeah. I'm a. He says, he said, getting right to you. I whiffed all the work flowing. And the cigarette smoke on top of that. I wanted to I said I really don't want to stay back Yeah, I said even though I there's a lot of pretty women back Yeah, I said I feel like they get the hell out of here. Just to be honest Which was also not air condition as well And the pre-judging was was like 10 hours long For the one class look why so long because what they didn't Europe they used to have it when Rafi always at least writing it There was 11 judges right so each judge gets to submit their own top five pick So they do 11 top five quality so she was Yeah, that's right. I was like why do we see everything one of them? Every Just to do that Okay, yeah, that's as she won the show everyone else was dying up there. She was like smiling and she loved She's gonna win. I said no one can stay up there as long as she can pose all day long. I said like that Yeah, it's interesting. I forgot how they do that in those shows where they they I mean they can they can so some people get compared to like this guy should be in the top 11 Right, and he's being You pan out they said he looks good and puts on the car. Yeah, it's crazy Most of the most of the courts were pretty consistent, but yeah, you're right. Everyone's so well You get like like with this person come from all the as friend is judging So you put it to the first call when you should be in the last call. Yeah Anyway What's your take on the whole Luke For a radio identity. He showed he said then he had Luke's what training partner on there best friend best friend He said he suicide You know he's cease to buy it suicide is the end did you know that I said suicide Siri might I found so to give me the definition of suicide Well, I'm so surprised if you didn't try to blow up and kill you I think that You know, I would I would I would agree with Ben Is best friend. Yeah, I would to well, you know it I guess you could say The official cause of death. I had a guy who's like a works for the police over there in England contact me Does and he said that he he said the way they do things there is a little weird So it could take three four weeks to get back An autopsy result and If they deemed the cause of death a cardiac arrest it doesn't matter what caused it so if he if he caused his own cardiac arrest The cause of death would be cardiac arrest you understand So if I mean If he did have you know problems and he did commit suicide, which it seems as though he did from whatever when the saying You know Whatever he did to himself caused a cardiac arrest which was the cause of death that I think so both Schools of thought were correct, but you know I think it's it's not helping People by making it pretend like it wasn't a suicide if it was because obviously he had some you know Mental health issues that you know and some problems. You know, and I think that it was it was great I think that it came to light The wake of his death that if people do have problem, they should contact people and talk to friends and loved ones and some of that in seek help because There are people that are depressed. I think people people see depression and And mental health issues as a weakness and that's why they don't like to talk about it especially especially Man especially Oh, man sure know whether they be in the business world of bodybuilding professionals You know that's that's just a fact from and society looks on it as a You know just put you man just just get it together play yourself up by a bold spoon straps and you know Throw on a Anthony Robbins tape and take on the day and it doesn't work that way at all Yeah, sure I had a guy contact me Esca me about stress and anxiety and he Paralyzing him he can't function he can't eat his food the way he should he can go to the gym sometimes and you know I might my take on this and then look I don't have I don't have depression You know aside from you know what you get Once a while you get to press I'm talking about don't have like crying depression But I do know this and I and I and I took this to heart when I read this and heard Wayne dire talk about this You know the late Wayne dire who's you know someone who's very influential in my life Just from all the reading and and stuff I watched on him and he said There's no such thing Okay, well, he didn't say he said have you ever seen a bucket an anxiety or Bucket of stress can you put it in a bucket? No, why because it doesn't exist it's something we create in our mind so a lot of the thoughts we have a lot of the the things that we allow to paralyze us and that allows us to do the things that we love is because of something that doesn't even exist We've created on our own and it's an erroneous way of thinking you're basically and so If you change the way you think the things you think about change and that's that's what you have to try to and and obviously sometimes It's hard you get into this rut where you can't get yourself out of it But you need to have people you can talk to who can walk you through that because it really is I mean it's like it's like drug addiction drug addiction is the stupidest thing of all time I mean you take something that's making you you think is making you feel better But it's actually making you feel worse and making your situation worse, but yeah, you keep taking That's that's insanity. That's that's a definition of insanity You're gonna take more of it. It's gonna feel better You're gonna feel and you're gonna keep feeling worse so same thing with that. I mean and the same white if you can't walk talk yourself through it You need other people to help you and that's why they have you know Help care professionals that do psychology counseling psychiatric counts What if you want to call it? It's important that you can talk to someone who can talk you off the horse so to speak and try to show you that hey You know what you're not thinking rationally here This is not a real thing you're creating in your mind now. Why are you creating your mind? You have a chemical balance or do you have something that happens you experienceually? That's affecting you and you need to get that out and that's that's those are the only two options right? Some stuff yeah, but some of those things that have affected you and form who you are And negatively of informed who you are over time Those great in turn to chemical imbalance and once you have a chemical imbalance You have a chemical imbalance it's hard to like right think you way out of a horse talk to somebody right you know I mean and alleviate what's a chemical imbalance It's like when they treat with both you know Anti depressions and therapy. I think you have to do both really initially yeah, yeah, I mean there's it's just Mental and this is one of the hardest things for people to overcome it's it's what leads to what mean you talked about drug addiction Yeah, you know people self-medicate with with all kinds of things to alleviate either the pain or to temporary suspend the feeling of being in balance It's you know it's it's a deep topic and the idea that you know a lot of people can You know Get out of it. I mean people do get out of it, but it's it's you know that a lot of people with clinical depression as you know Sure, you know lots of people leave We laps into that state as well. Yeah. Well, I have a guy contact me say hey Dave can I use Adorable every day on my diet. I get great workouts I don't feel as hungry I said he's like you know what do you think? I said well wanting to snort a couple lines of cocaine He got it he was laughing. I said just because it's a prescription drug You know you're getting your right prescription doesn't mean it's something you want to take you know I said you're getting yourself into into a hole that you might not be able to climb out of I said You better off doing it. You know sort of a line of coke, you know once in a while You know not that I'm a condo in it. I'm just saying it's the same thing you're doing you know You're yourself medicating yourself because With the drive that you don't really need there are people who need it You don't need it. I said you want it because you feel good on it, but eventually you don't feel good on it You don't feel good on it. You don't feel good on it. You don't feel good on it. You don't feel good on it. So he got the message. Look what he's like. I'm doing it This is body building you know because we use drugs you know several times of it that It's not that hard to use other drugs you know it makes a lot easier the decision because it's you could inject steroids You know three times a week What's popping in a couple pills here in there or you know snort a line of coke or People just don't they don't think twice about it's not a big deal. You know whereas the normal person in every day Society would just do that, you know Yeah, no you're right it should so it's easy It's easy say why I feel bad for the Luke's family and everything like that is friends at Wastem and and you know you I mean you had a good relationship with him. I'm saying you will work from with them It's sad we lost a good guy but hopefully you know Some people you know could learn from that and if it could have prevented one other death and great I think that would see Would it be just turned 32 last week? I think 32 yeah, that's yeah. It was 30 second birthday So what do you think about the New York probate? Let's go on to something a little bit more moving to Tampa I mean you were campaigning when they moved to Jersey gave Well, you know, you know what the problem is all the gyms are closing New York I feel bad for Steve Weinberg. He's got to be going crazy. You can't have Jim has him been open in months He can't hold any shows up there Yeah, you know it's he's got to do you know he doesn't want to hold the show I know a lot of people are probably you know want to do it. They need to limp your qualifier So I guess Tim Gardner show went off well right this week So they must have contacted the hotel where he's held it and I guess they they said we can make it happen So they're gonna be doing New York pro in Tampa Which is kind of weird because you know the New York pro has always been known for the New York audience right that's a bad show for night a champions and then what I got converted even to New York pro The audience is what made that show special you know if you can make it here you can make it anywhere the old New York saying Does it go does it still hold your hands? Yeah, I mean it's it's just that the end of the day it's it's really important that they had the show Simply because I mean they have to you have to have these shows if you're gonna salvage the year Yeah You know I'm not a driver if you're doing the show because because you know what there's no way they make a money on the show Zero way Zero it's He's not Yeah, yeah I don't know amateur show so such Just to just open up the door Cosmaut you know fortune just to open up the door. Hi. We have to venue. Hi the hotel. We're here Hi with flying in judges And love love lots fortune small fortune so it really is so You know you're gonna have a limited audience again Right, I mean you have to yeah, I think you do the live show again probably yeah I don't know how they have if if Tim did well in that or not But There was a valuable obviously for people to do it But it's great that they haven't it it's funny that they haven't Yeah, but Better than anything Who you think really is gonna be in the show? I don't know Said like I can't have to guys from Tampa And you know what mean you've probably guaranteed those you know that and you know who else You don't know because you don't know you did you know I know people who And it it's not the people I help everyone's in the same boat Everyone's practiced for every show has been hindered to a mild degree and to a major degree Yeah, you know and and so many people have had shows post-poned it that they've throw some people I know a throne in the tall and safe shed it down this year Some people so well keep on going some people go off the diet on the diet on the diet off the diet you know So I don't know who they're gonna get in line up. I mean don't get people in line up for sure, you know And I see they've added no women's body but linked to the lineup that's cool because wings of strength stepped up So Jake would once again sponsoring Putting up some money for this show that that's great Make it in happen Man in five you know I've said it before five was a woman body builder I mean if I was a woman's physique and that I'd be doing all these women's body Nope, nope, they won't listen I told Shai know Shelby starts. He's got a bunch of women's physique and that is the help I said you should put him put him in the body building What do you crazy and how much? Who knows how much? I guarantee they give you more money away from Miss Olympia They're gonna give them from the physical women's physique with the a champ okay I already said I want I want to see Iris Kyle and Shini grant us why don't you take a take a gas stay What do you think again? I give away for Miss Olympia. I'll take a gas. I'll write it down There you go 100,000 yeah, hey, want me show you I wrote it on a hundred what is that You see that I wrote down club was not 100 yeah, I start called it The great thing to that would be would still be winners on the match game yeah Match game yeah, we got a fly yeah I think that these women physique women I'm missing the boat I said they can I should have said it should combine the I already told you this I think they should combine the divisions but if they don't do that Women's physique girls dummies do the women's body building shows that are coming up qualified for the Olympia when A lot of money I'll tell you what sit in place 100 for first maybe Jake will even go higher than that Second place is not gonna be 16 it's not gonna like drop off a cliff. Yeah, something big Or he might do for first he might well he does he what he do 50,000 plus the car left so there's a hundred right there you can do 75 plus the car Garity is gonna be a nice price package That's his thing he loves the women body balls, but you know what these women's physique girls are Just as big You know I people think Iris Kyle is this crazy huge body builder No, she's like a hundred sixty pounds on stage these women girls are a big of them that Yeah I'm telling you I would tell I would if I was the time Look no one's gonna be chanique grant we know that unless she decides to do something happens to her if I was the second third fourth Race girl from last year and the women I would do body building I would do body building Forget I got a good beat and Iris and they really would be in chanique grant Let's for sure and if I was she week I would do women's body building if they would give them away that much money I'd be like you know what screw this I'm doing women's body She should do the she should do the near pro and women's body But she's from Jersey Do the near pro when that and body building and then do the Olympia and body building I was kind of a verse Shini Grant is almost as exciting as is kind of I'm gonna say I got a new spoon that's almost excited I know you got a new spoon. That's like I know you're gonna say that Who's that that's the better one? I'm right my ears at the end of a career. Shini said the beginning of a career who wins chanique for his iris? Well, chanique could easily gain four pounds of muscle. That's She's definitely gonna be bigger than she was last year She's not gonna be as big as iris obviously But she's probably gonna her waist is probably half the size of iris's yeah Who wins? I don't know. I don't know. I love the same iris of the six hours cardio a day though She needs to get down and she needs to. She needs to. She needs to. She needs to. She's always in the Greg's shift the last couple years. I'm sure it would be a great battle and you know what the two of them would love it too Because it would bring so much attention to women's body building again People would be talking about it Say it's time to jump in Dashi Lexi jump in She's not gonna pull down or go to the To the commentary yeah, and then before I'm here. I'm gonna do it. I'd love to see that too That's that's like landed jumping in is like hiding in the show Shini going up against iris is like flex Lewis you know going up to a gen's I'm curious All right, okay, I get I get spell you know, yes Well, it does does yeah Smack talk between flex Lewis and Phil wins you Well, you're gonna get it between Phil and Brandon yeah, you won't get it flex will be like That's ain't gonna play nothing like politically say I respect all these champions Yeah, branding Great champion great champion day Julie So you're gonna You are gonna get it from Brandon and you're gonna get it from Phil You're gonna get it big time once branding is he's very quiet too You you will get it it's gonna be a love fast-up there, but we know Running into the show Listen the only person you're gonna get any smack talk out of as if they show up would be dexter And roadie if they think we can get them in the line, you know Yeah, I'm wrote them to have a lot of things to say at the press conference before He'd make the if he got in the show he'd make the whole he probably would be almost better than Kai there I mean Kai obviously fan favorite, but roadie would be great because it's like This guy keeps getting stuff taken away from them, you know just just before he's about to accomplish something great, you know He's Mr Olympian and he can't even defend the title so And me no one's gone through more bull over the last couple years than him so He would certainly have a lot to say the press conference. Yeah, maybe you can get Alan as a lawyer. Yeah He's got a guy trial already right I mean the thing is taking forever. I mean what I don't know what the hell is going on here This trial I got I wish we knew I said at last week I said if Find out from the lawyer You know a lot of lawyers yeah What is the average time it takes To go to court the problem is with this whole COVID thing It's probably taking before that even that's March Or would you went to trial before fucking roadie went to trial? I don't know I know what that'll take it so well like that one's a murder Well, this is rapies facing jail time. I mean unless his unless his side of his lawyers You don't have to prepare some kind of special trial for I don't know maybe maybe Maybe Let's see maybe he won't get a fair trial and He's but he's got to get tried so I mean unless the just seeing the charges. I mean I don't see you know that happening he's gonna have to go to trial and then when this thing you know Look if if it's a weak case and he's got a good lawyer They can win because remember the only only need one juror to say He's guilty. He's not guilty. You know They gotta get a unanimous guilty verdict for him to go to jail That's not gonna happen if if the trial if the case is flimsy I don't care is discrimination or not Okay, there's gonna be one person on the as you go through the right thing that's that's the way it is However if it's not a weak trial, and not a weak case, and then they have a strong case against them then these and trouble You know, so Don't don't you think if they hadn't ironclad case they would have had it already Now because his side could be delaying at two for you know, no no no no no Orations don't you think if they have an ironclad case? His side doesn't decide when to go into trial The judge does the state does the state the state don't you think if they had an ironclad case? This is two years in the making come out of on isn't the constitutions that you have a right to a speedy trial How speedy is this? I say it again if they had an ironclad case just Go on a limb if we had an ironclad case Don't you think of the other going to try by now? I don't know I don't know who's the one delaying. I don't know if it's the state or his side Well the states the one who picks the date right but can't I know I know like you can't fire motions to dismiss certain evidence and stuff like that That could be going What's only on the dirt like delay in this long who knows? I don't know I don't know what's going on how can we kid this is how come the stuff is that public knows you know in Florida everything's public record I don't know we don't have some listener open I got it your grandma on this case to start covering it right? Yeah, he's married to a while. I don't know that's right. I'll ask him tomorrow. Or you can get uh that's come on after I was you can get the guy with the arms Down to you Don't you know who he'll fill no You know what's his legal expertise He'll just wing it. Yeah, yeah, it was a new march to Clark. I was very good friends If if if you had for any case Valentino on a jury hit poison the whole entire Right, he never looked at looking hey with dismiss him in three seconds if you have a kid you know when they You're a question you know because you know if you're not a big dismiss No, no, it'd be smart enough to like Caunt not calm but slide his way into any jury and then right he would poison that help me that in a good way He would just not stop you take the opposed if you want it be asking questions you're exiled You're a guy's version, right? Yeah Excuse me yeah, it'd be perfect to have on if you if you were right Invent Invent in pick the case Well, he he everything He's become very conservative all these I think he would send a lot of people to jail No, I don't think he's as liberal as you think anymore He's always what he's busy you become a conservative it's inevitable Yeah All right, well good news fill he threw in the mr. Olympia that's a good the New York Crow will take place in Tampa So Stuff to smile about guys at they come on wake up, you know feel good about yourself this is a good news for the body to leave World so far the Olympia still on that's a good another good sign a Tim guarded prove that you can hold the brochure and Make it work that was good So things are improving I guess you know I feel bad for the people in the York and New Jersey there are in such a lot Yeah, and those but I got to send that my my prayers to these guys at a tilless gym Yes, and Oh my this guy they went to war with this governor He wants to find them like five branded gay or something like that like some crazy amount of money He's he wants he's shut them down every way possible they've opened up every way possible It's disgusting to be honest with you and you know the funny thing is They make a good point some of the some of the places that are open That are deemed necessary are so ridiculous That that that they could be open and his gym can't be open is ludicrous, you know Dude, did this people you know You don't strip up there are our essential services. Did you know that? I didn't know that it's not surprising Look at stores are essential service. Yes, yeah Listen you see the Congress got to get there fucking bottle of booze That's why I see people in the jump food section in my Walmart three and half inches away from each other Scramble and for junk food I'm good serious. I'm dead serious. I believe I went the other day with my son and we walked by the you know the like the smack section the chips And he said can we get some chips? Yeah, I love chips. So yeah, it's for we couldn't get down the aisle. I was not ready to get down Yeah, because people They have the one way and people can't follow the one way they have to come both right they Crash into each other And then they're afraid oh Don't breathe on me. Yeah, well Honestly there foot in half away, but the gym is gonna be closed right Yeah, exactly. I mean, it's it's I understand these guys point listen Restaurants they're doing everything by the book too They're doing it every help precaution possible leave them a fucking low and they want to just fucking make a living for themselves I don't understand what's going on here Well, like I say if you if they just shove it down shut them down and write them a check for the blast money Yeah, instead they're finding them because they they want to open the gym All right guys you guys out there. I we were pushing for you over there in that till us gym don't give up a good fight I know you might become the the martyrs and the victims, but you know what and I know it's cost you a fortune But you know what you guys are gonna help change things because if everyone just gives in Then nothing changes so I We respect you you know as people who love to train That you are not getting in and you're giving your members in the ability to work out during a situation that's Just not good, you know, and that's the way it is All right guys, you know what to do like we say every week remember With heavy muscle radio the truth hearts good night everyone. We'll see you next week You

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday, August 31st, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Even though this year Chicago Pro will be held in Atlanta, which technically makes it a Atlanta Pro, on papers still looks like one of the premier events of the season, just like it's been for the last few years. So far the women's physique line up looks like it'll be one of the better groups that we've seen all year long, and I'm chalking some of that up to the fact that Heather Grace is making her season debut. Heather's one of the only athletes in the history of women's physique to have multiple top three Olympia finishes on her resume, and I'm sure she wouldn't mind using this show in Chicago or Atlanta to springboard her way back up there again, so if she looks like she's ready to rock, this show can end up being hers to lose. I'm a process goal oriented person. That means that I draw a lot of satisfaction from the pursuit of my goals and reaching whatever it is that I'm shooting for, it's just a means for me to throw myself into a pursuit. And for someone like Lexus Redmond, who's had so much success so early in her career, it's pretty clear that she's someone who enjoys the process up to this point. The season Lexus has probably been the most impactful rookie in the bikini division, and I know there are some who think she might be ready to challenge for a top 10 Olympia spot. Every year it seems like there's one athlete in the division who turns into a breakout star almost overnight. And if she keeps doubling down on her process, this year might be the one. As I get older, I've started to gain an appreciation for the stability and simplicity that habits and routines bring to my life. The whole thing about people being creatures of habit is absolutely true, and my guess is that Melissa Valier is probably finding some of that out, first hand right now. A few days ago, the former figure Olympian resurfaced on social media for the first time in a while with some new training footage where we saw her starting to knock some of the rust off of the powerful set of ax plots. At this point, I don't even know when or if, now even plans to compete again, but I do know that the power of habit and routine are two major forces that help to keep us grounded. So if she ever does get bitten by the bug again, it'll be those two things that will serve as our foundation. I've talked before about flow states and how athletes and artists who understand how to tap into their flow have an ability to become transcendent. What your flow state is and how you get there is all specific to the individual, but as far as I can tell, Alexis Sullivan seems like she's knee deep in hers right now. The transformation that she's made over the last few months has been amazing. And if you can make a pretty strong argument for her being in the best shape of her career right now. People forget that it was only two years ago that we were talking about Harris, one of the most impactful rookies in women's physique. So if 2020 Alexis is an upgraded version of what we saw then, she might be on her way back to the Olympia stage. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day, Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

In the muscle radio. Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. I am now here on the phone with our first and only guest of the day. He's always wanted to talk to him, bring on the radio. He actually contacted me, so the fates in the universe were in our favor. He was a bodybuilder, an australia, very popular at that. He wrote for Muscle Mag International a number of years. He's now in the Hollywood scene and he's training some special forces in MMA. I like the welcome guy Grundy to show. You'd a mighty Hawaii. Good day mate. I could finally say that to someone who actually needed. It's very cool. I'm proud to be the third one. Yeah, we have a friend from South Africa, a friend of mine on Drea. For some reason, I have a nutty friend who confuses South Africa with Australia and he thinks that they say good day mate, and South Africa. We always say good day mate to this guy and it's not really appropriate because it's not from Australia, but you actually are so good day mate. He thinks it's all pretty easy if he unit a little thing. Now how long did you live in Australia for? My dad was born in the I'm not in 70. I lived there till March of 2008. I could find out, 20, I came, lived there till I was 28 and did everything I could do in bodybuilding and a strier at that point. And they matched it on the idea I was came out of the heat of America and the skin that got off the plane, I was basically the gold. You can do it for a clock waiting for it to open at 5. I could find a clock. You lived, yeah, you went, you seeked out the dream, so to speak. When you came to Los Angeles, was that an Venice was actually the dream was at Venice Golds, and you really lived it and you wrote about it, a lot of muscle neck. Mate, it's amazing how you need to be on the arm of the lower of attraction and energy whatever it is. But it's just amazing because I used to sit on the bike, ride on my cardio, you know, little gymnast, drove a muscle bag with a colon by a speed niece. No, come to America, a meat speed niece is the first person to do a thorough meat. If you pass as a weigh and I literally get a quiet, you start riding a colon that, which I always felt was, you know, something I was taking after him, so it was both funny, but yeah, living the dream, I just seen all the guys who expect to really yourself, all the training of gold, the DVD, the magazine, the thing that I was like, you know, what, that's where I got to date. I got to stop you, Steve Nees for those of you who don't know who he was. Was this big monstrous looking guy, you had to be a six-five or something like that, a six-four, and he was a big, you know, strong guy, and he just basically hung out at Golds Jim Venice all day long, and he would keep discovered most of the new town deck, because he was there all the time. He's the first guy to feature me in a column, believe it or not, too. He also is the only guy to ever get me at my biggest, the 319 pounds he put some pictures in his column of me. I look like, I look like I was going to explode. I was so big, and he did discover a lot of guys, unfortunately he did pass away, and it's ironic that you took over pretty much the place of his column. He had a column called Muscle Beach, and he would go. It's been a muscle gussle for something. It's been a muscle beach, muscle beach. Muscle Beach, I think it was called, right? Yeah, yeah, my older amazing, that was a huge, cool, me to meet him, and yeah, coming from Australia and then, you know, like, I said, you know, it'd be a link on, like, but we're not just wearing your shirt, but I swear sometimes, this is like a PG. Now, you can say whatever you want, you can tell me to go fuck myself with your hourcare. I'll tell you that on the radio, I won't tell you that in person. Yeah, that's good, fine. Yeah, mate, so it's just a dream there with Steve Neese, and coming to the gym, and like I said, you're doing something like fuck, look at the labeling, you're breaking, you're getting down, those veins are beating the masterful legs. Now, you did something interesting, because you want a lot of championships back in Australia, you want them to throw Australia, you went to the World Championships in NAMRI, you want your weight class there, or you actually say your high class, because NAB had did it by high classes. You've accomplished a lot in bodybuilding, but when you came to the United States and started living the Venice Gold gym dream, you did something interesting in the magazine, you started writing a column, but you gave it a perspective that was a lot different than other people, because number one, you were a competitive bodybuilder, which a lot of people who write these kind of columns aren't, number two, you're an excellent writer, I just don't really say that to many people, but you are an excellent writer. And number three, you told a very honest perspective what was going on, almost to the fault of making fun of yourself. Will was this something that was always inside of you that you always have the ability to kind of laugh for yourself? Yeah mate, I think like, yeah, take what we're going to stray a week call or take in the piece out of yourself, I mean, you know, you just don't talk yourself up, you're like, you know, I'm an idiot or something, you know, you just make fun of yourself, you're going to more in Australia, you're also have another thing called the puppy syndrome, people love you when you're down and battling, but then when you get to the top people start and I'm going to put you to make you fall over 50, that's just human nature. So I think I just develop a technique of seeing people that were successful, they're all going to take in the tip out of yourself, you like, how can you stop life besides like, you know, like, Mike Ryan, for instance, who's been a poor guy that's been looking like, but he's also calling you like, fuck, right? How perfect is he even? I think he's got to himself. And you know, I'd rather have fun in life and, you know, like, that people take the tip out of you, so why not do it first? Because he can get the way and get your own laugh. Well, I always say the absurdity is life for it, we're really making it enjoyable. Were you at the Gold Gym when what's his name? Matt Seeny. Yeah, mate, when John Seeny was there, John Seeny was there. Not for my videos, bro. I knew you were a fair and too, buddy. I've been so fortunate to go. Like I said, I was there for 98. John Seeny, he was working behind the counter probably earning $8 an hour. And but you always look, you know, just like, yeah, that keeps the start. He's going to do something. He's going to go somewhere. And he always had that comfort for the housing. But yeah, I seen him there evolve. Also, Chris Masters, who I think I was fully first person to write on him for the magazine, they must play. So he might call him and then he went on to be too well in the WWE. Well, I've seen it. I was coming down and it's, you know, then you realize, like, damn, I'm pretty old. You've got a few different trends of bodyboard. It's go like the era that I came up. So ahead of me, John, the guys that I was competing with, a lot of them have gone. So I've seen, being a sport change and then progress and it's I think the say with the bodyboarding now, I've got to, it's the way it's judging and everything else. Things like we still heap as the number one guy. If he's got something to everyone there, he's a good looking guy. He's well, and got a phenomenal physique. He keeps improving. He's got masks. You know, he's a J.K. Califlect Wheel of Connecombination. They do it up. Did you do you, did you get along well with Lee Priest? You're a, come on in your country, man there? I guess we get on a K. I wouldn't say with the, the fuck, it's a careful, I'm going to be doing any of you over there. Pretty sure, apparently, but I wouldn't say, you know, I'll be honest, now I wouldn't say we got on. But could have been my photo, because he was ahead of me and strier the legend. And I came over here and I was a little unsure of myself. And I had an unfortunate circumstance that like of meeting, clicked little with a total of, I told him, I was good mind him. He was Lee, and I was a little, I'll talk about that. And then I was a little reserved. And I never, I never walked up to Lee, that, hey, Lee, you're a hero to me. I've got much respect for you. Like, think perhaps that may have put our relationship on a funny thing. And then he's, and Lee, I'm not being rude, but the guy needs a milk crate to talk to you, but he's so sure, man. He's got attitude. You know, fuck for a moment of straight. He gave me attitude. I'm going to put you on a milk crate. And he, yeah. See, you didn't get a lower flex wheeler. Is that, does it matter? No, he was the biggest arphole in the entire world. I thought, I used to wear flex, but my older, the white, black, fluid home, where I would be wearing the long, tight, fit the black and orange strier. I found it just getting my gay slider to get into the blackwear mirror in America. But I admired him. And all he did is, and this is the first time I met him. But you know, apparently changed my blessing, but I'm talking about the flex wheel, but I met him. Yeah, he admitted that he was an asshole back in the day, but tell us how much of an asshole he actually was. Hey, I'll totally jump on that one. I'll totally jump on that train. I'll get two tickets. So I come and he marches 98. Flex wheel is my hero. I got nothing to respect for him. I'm at the firehouse. There's most important place in my life in anybody border. He's, you know, a male flex wheeler. Where the firehouse, my girlfriend who came with me, who was sitting in the city in front of me, of course. And he was sitting behind me, looking at his martial arts, looking straight at my woman. Just looking at her like arrogant and she says, he's just looking at me and I'm like, I'm taking a big breath, because I'm not being arrogant, but I used to, I grew up on the street. I've fought on my, I would be a really training tactic to the special forces. The long story shorty, Tim and I would have beat the living shit out. And we weren't going to go and have a little karate point fighting. Can hold of guests head by the demon ground to be fed into the ground. So you already were thinking about how you were to take them down if there's a game to go. Well, I was thinking I was shaping, I was so angry, because I loved this guy, but all that love and admiration definitely to hate. And all I can remember fitting it was, and at the first time I guess I was professional, I said, you can't walk up to flex wheeler, taking outside beats of living shit out of him. You try would do. On your first day here, it is the best fighting border in the world. It's gonna make you look like a total asshole. Right, come in here. So I let it go. I never did anything about it, but I've never ever forgotten. It was just amazing to see that man had so much power and admiration. And I know he had met study with an asshole, but you can say, hey, I'm sorry, but people like me had to deal with that. I was in shock, because I thought the guy was a god. And then friends would do that to me. It was amazing. And you know, then you get sick. And I've never had one, but you'll do it. Well, no, you know, they give you one of the coolest guys in the sport. Everyone's got something good to say about you. Thanks. Those are good things, but something good to say about flex. Yeah, it wasn't anybody. I've never heard anyone say one good thing about flex. And what amazed me about flex is the potty that he came up with. And so I like I know everything about him, retail, the Clinton, Chris, call me out. We're going to clean these nice, most loyal, these are man and mine. There's a new guy, very nice. The legend, Chris, I've got nothing but love and respect for him. Chris is cool where you'll be burned by a hot woman. And Chris will walk up there when I was going to go, are you still in branding the cheese, say yes, he would walk away. Yeah, that's not a problem. That's what I'm not sure. But it's like here, um, mate, it just says if you're there, he listens to him. He'll just, at the fans, at someone that came over from another country, and you were the greatest thing in my world, you were the greatest disappointment in mine. Hi, I love it. Did you ever have a fight with anyone over there at Gold's Venice, where you got to the point you're like, I'm taking this guy out and you just anyway. You got it. I'm trying to be a sense in people, names and nothing, like, you know, like, I want to get a loan, I'll tell you all of them because I think you did have fights. You did have fights? I'll drop, slap the few people, like, go. Who'd you slap? Come on, tell me what you're seeing. Oh, I can't kill a brother. What's the difference? We're going to get arrested? Come on. I don't know. Oh, I, oh, I, all right, all right, ready? Yeah. The worst, the biggest one, and now you all face that a fight human, I've tell everyone a gold gym, Mr. Canada, Eric, Delaro. You, you would slap the shot of Eric Delaro? Me and Eric Delaro, you got a problem with this. Grundy will slap him again. We had a problem. I want to eat. If he wants to talk about what he did, if you have a getting one here in asking what he did to deserve a slap for me, I'd like to know. No, I, I, I, I, I, bring it up, could have been embarrassing for me, but if he wants to do it to show the kind of man, he, he could do it long story short. I talking about the back of gold gym in Venice. Yeah. And make sure the cameras were on me. I, but I actually, the class started at a talk, we had a problem in the gym, and I said, let's go out and talk about it. I don't want to fly. You want to talk about it. So we go out. So I long story short. I've been in front of Julie, had the fitness model, Julie and Greer, up and everyone at Gold gym will back this story up. Yeah. I've been slapping Bradley this man. 280 pounds. I'm looking at him thinking about the, this, we're going to be one hell of a fight. I'm getting excited, bro. The man, ride, he's very worth it. Right? Right. And then do you know who my father is? And Ren R.C. he's hat and left. Oh my god. How embarrassing for him. Make, you know, and that's the next thing. And we were best friends, but I used to ride about him in muscle mag and putting him in my colon. So yeah, that happened. And definitely, and then I don't think that a problem with 30 tail-off, I wrote some stuff about him in a magazine. He told me the big triceps from England. Yeah, exactly. And once again, same thing with her, and I actually made a challenge here. My dad brought fight. You anywhere you want to fight. Thanks to it. Good long story short. I'm a little nervous, you might train or I might not. I think I'm through England. What I'm away on too are. And I hear again, this is off Julian Greer, the fitness model Julie goes, hey man, and he tail is looking for you. And I'm like, there, I need you. He goes, yeah, he's going to beat the shit out of your ass. Yeah. Okay. I said, first off, why are he telling you? He's not telling me, because I don't know, but he wanted me to tell you, and I might go, I'm not hard to find. And secondly, basically, the man had a problem with something I wrote in the magazine. He goes to go, do you little me? Well, I'm like there, that you might train at. Well, and they gently go into the UK, walking into his home, found him and going, where's Ernie? Where's Ernie? I'm going to beat him. And then on top of that, I'm like, I'm not saying I'm the toughest guy in the world, but I will back up what I say. Especially back in the day off, I'm more refined. Now I'm 41, I'm acting, but he's settled these stuff. He's a bad guy in the world. There are any, and I put an official challenge to intrude, not to make it, and everything, and you're at the end. Wow. He thinks me, like, if you're a man, like, if you're a man, and you're going to talk and do something, do it. But I'm not going to tell you, I'm going to beat you.

What's your right about him? He got self-saf. The thing was, and it was once again taken to Tissati itself, I said, Ernie is one of either great bodybuilders. I've got nothing but respect for Ernie, but he's destroying his disease by using Stinson and fighting decking. And I know because I suffered the consequences of using it. It's always like an education. Trice of way does his trice of service, he does biceps for way to get overblown. And then again, he ran around saying he was going to beat me up in the idea. That's all back in the past like he did. Why is it that people don't like hearing the truth about themselves? Because you know, sometimes too, I sometimes give, you know, obviously reports and, and wrap up videos at these different shows. And some of the bodybuilders get mad at me and then they won't interview with me. They won't talk to me. They go around bad mading me. And it's not that I'm saying that they're a bad person. I'm just giving critique of their physique, you know, most of the time. The bodybuilders made as I've been a sport, I've done rugby, I've been a national and faith athlete in seven sports. I've hung out with someone. Bodybuilders are the most insecure people in the world. And it's, you know, I say it, you know, my inner views. I look the way I look and I can fight and do all the things that I can do because of my insecurities. I wasn't happy with who I was and what I wanted. So my insecurities made me who I am. And you know, they just take everything to heart for the thing is, if you just say something nice about everyone, you're not, you're not enough in a last longing and industry. You've got the ball to be honest because these people who can be insecure and they're like 300 pounds as they want to get in your face. It's like, I'm doing my job and I'm being honest. The, I've got respect for people to speak their mind. And then there's lead tree from the other end of these, these mind they will say all these stuff about the world. And you know, it's just, they're not back it up and be a little bit hard for I probably lost the energy on the mono station now. People on the record, they were a mono I like because he speaks his mind and is full but yeah, y'all think that Lee, and the thing that really upset me about Lee was once we didn't appear together, I had all my shoulder had three shoulder reconstructing in two years. My whole life was being a big bodybuilder and all the time. I was about number 266 pounds normal looking man. He was being a parent with Lee and all he could just get bringing up with how small I look more and I was like, you know, once the twice was running and then people would come up to get my lot of graphic as what you're getting the autograph off the bike rider over there. How was the tracking with you another one? Yeah, and then the others, I guess in this spring, because you know, Lee and I've never had a road relationship and the other thing I admit, hey, Guy Grundy used new bay and I did stories about it all. You wrote about it, you did? Yeah, I was a new bay and I'm an addict for a while too, so I could relate to your stories you wrote about it. And I used things though, I wrote articles about it and admitted about it. Lee fed stuff about me in some seminars to other people whatever about me using it. I couldn't give a shit. I did use it like saying, Dave Columbus got best clarity. It's true. It's not an insult and I guess I must around settling asking them to put him on the spot about me, you know, you're commenting about me in the same cell and you're asking me to have a girlfriend where I need to go, no, I didn't. And then bring Kathy over, but the fact is the matter is he did. And I just don't like it. If you want to say one thing in one area, don't say it's to me and then do the same man to my face. It's one thing about bodybuilding. I've noticed we could do the steroids and everything involved and the ego. Bodybuilders seem to think that they're amazing fighters or families and let me tell you bodybuilders are amazing fighters that first up you need to know how to fight. A bodybuilder will rip you muscle in two seconds to try to throw a punch. You know, there's your body's not accustomed to it. But you said they're very big and aggressive men that give us some some of the bit of a stereotype. And you were always tricky because you were both. You were one of the bigger guys. But you were also with the opposite where you were when you were never arrogant. You were never rude. I never was in defining either. I just, I was about peace. I was who I was about. It's never really interested me. But when did you learn the fight? I mean, you're a real deal. I mean, you're a teaching special forces had a fight. Where would you learn how to do something like that? I've been living on the streets since I was 16. I couldn't even tell you how to fight. I used to fight. You can breath out of the dumpster. I used to fight with people for a place that's bleep. You know, I would fight on my life. And then from 2008 to 2011, it came in, I guess I went to the dark side. I became an in-thought though. I became a collector. I was a professional street fighter. Really? I got a year. I got arrested. But what what I'd run at me, I was an even eight months ago. My bail. You're ready for my bail. Everyone was, did you ever get your bail as a bad off-mire bail with one million? What are you doing? What are you doing? Your mail is a million bucks. You must have done some pretty bad. I went to the name of your days. I wasn't the name of your. What happened? You didn't. You didn't. You didn't. Obviously didn't go to jail, right? No, mate. As I said, I was a collector. That collector you're the street fighting scene and it was considered they thought of I was had mafia ties and everything. I used people in new people but once the investigation went ahead and everything that said, hey, you know what? You're innocent. And that pretty much black half cool. I was in a jail fell and I'm like, I don't mind being in jail. Be put if I get jail and I'm being there once before. But maybe you're going to do it five. I can fight. I don't mind that lifestyle. But I don't know me. I'm like, you still can trick your father. You've got a daughter. Oh, you didn't know you had a daughter? You're most important thing I was to protect my daughter in here and think it on the tough guy. And I'm leading my daughter unattended. So, you know, I got out of that. I always went broke there for a little while. They took out what I was making. Good money, doing whatever I was doing. Every day, okay, by the police, so I've got a totally fine of that. Good relationship with them. And that's the stuff doing this. Focus on the acting and everything. So, did that things in the scene will also be a bit too high. So, you gave up to the, you gave up the collecting. Because I was going to hire you to get some, some advertisers over your couple of bucks. I was going to send you out and over to them and see if you can collect from me. I know, you know, people. He gave that up. How does yard? How did you get into Hollywood? I see you're acting in movies and then you've taken that personality that you got that everyone really loved when you're rolling the magazines and just that I know in general. I've talked to you before. I mean, you have a great person. How did you direct that and channel your new energies now into an acting career? I've known the Blossom a little bit from my understand. Yeah, it is. I'm a very physical person. I like to the quality. So, I do a lot of actions. So, that meeting outside, but I also have an intellectual father. I didn't even know I had like school. I couldn't write a lot with the dinner. I lived on the street. So, I had a challenging upbringing, but the acting and understanding it, it came to me naturally. So, I, you know, I can fit here and convert with you on all the great teaching and I've got a lot of different things such as tennis, lofty, I've had training, say, yes. On the dividend intellectual, I didn't get into that because I, that treats me. I want people to just talk about it a hundred percent. But the important reason I've had six sets is one of them is I can act. I've got a certain look where I've got my, you know, my hand, my hand. We got my pants. I'm 225 pounds, six foot, include condition, the way I move. So, I'm a bit of an anomaly. I'm different to where everyone else is. And I realize what I've got. Everyone, all my age, and men just go and stay fit and get them the brony. They go and treat me down at the time mainstream. And I'm like, wrong with you. You want me to trim down at the time mainstream. Like everybody else. So, I've got a rely on my acting. Or I can be a big, free people can act here, or I'll lie. That can act and have my own little Nicky. I see you more as a character, rather than, you're not going to be the leading man. You're going to be the bad guy, or the guy that, you know, is a complete maniac in the movie. Well, mate, at the moment, I agree that's totally what I am. I'm, I'm, I'm the lucky. I guess the thing I guess I just shot was, I've been very naming it as a kind of, it's called Isabella. I was John Globett, you know, the legend, the medium. He's a bit of a... He can, from Boreth and so, because, you know, I can't think of his name and other really big guys. And I had a lead rolling, so I was doing things, people, all these guys, and the beautiful thing was, that was a bad guy I got to do, a choreograph. Fight scene by Boreth and to be, you were military to work on spec with this, and the state, all the fighting I got to do, car chasing scenes, and thankfully, one thing about me and you brought it up is, people seem to like me because I'm easy going and I'm honest, but I'm also not a trick or a bit on set on the most professional guy you can work with. I don't talk in a much-spot to talk. I'll give an idea when it's time, so I will, it's my mark. I'll ask the cameraman, hey, when am I in and out of, I ask all the questions that I don't need to be told and people tell, how do you know what they're already on life because I watch? You're a student, you're a student of acting too. Yeah, I enjoy it, I watch, and I get along well with everyone I said, I talk, you're on set sometimes for a month at a time. Sometimes, I'm just as a great, but I generally get on better with the crew, because they're more man, and I buy back the little beats that they're taught. And I'll hang out with them, it's pretty good, hey, I'm hanging out with her, and she just makes it annoying women world, but she's pretty, you've got to be there listening, huh? I don't know, I don't know. Another way, by talking to the crew, and I would like to direct the interview in the future, but by talking to the crew, I find out what this cameraman does, I understand, he's job, we're ready in my mind of a place where there's a lot of wasting this movie industry, you don't need this. So, I do, I live in either pen and I enjoy it, and the other thing, when you walk on set, that's the so arrogant and rude, which is amazing, people, do you want to walk on set in front of 30 to see people holding up cameras and lights and microphone for you? And they're actually hating you when I hope you do bad because you're an asshole. That amazing, I've seen on set in the movie, what was it? Not relentless, but I had another one or a company and there's a real human, I can't even, I didn't even know it, that's how she was in me. And she was, I guess a crew was on the little bit of a day client, because she's a bullshit and want to do. So we were all keen there in the house. No, that's an oldie, low hand, huh? So, right? I said, what the, what is it? What is it, Lindsey, low hand, was it? No, I wasn't leaving the house in, I'm hoping to hear it. I heard career on the down, down the spin, I thought it was her. I heard he's got a new role coming up with a, you know what, the desk get off, windy, low hand and get back to God. And you've got to, would you have sex with Lindsey, low hand if she came onto you on a set? I would do a desk, or I could come and tell you the story. Oh, that's, sorry, I'm glad that you're at least thinking, entertainment value, thank you. Oh, you always think of the story, like something bad happened to my life, and they're right now, these sucks, but tomorrow, this is going to be a funny story. Thank you, what happened? That's right, that's right, that's right. Well, what was I talking about or was it about? There was a woman on the set who was a prima Donna and she was acting like everyone. Hi, everyone couldn't stand. So I'm in the room in two things happened with standing there and I'm, I'm a very nice person, I call, I'm a blamboyant, I'm loud, so I'm getting a lot of attention in this woman, hate that she just tried to, to help the individual become a patient because she came and then I just got to, excuse me, the attention from Grundy right now, we'll get that to you. And everyone on set laughed and they will come out and let's go through it so happy that we will hate her.

Do you ever you ever on a movie because you're a funny guy on a movie said Do you ever like you get happen to like maybe like one of the stars says like who is this guy? Where do we find this guy like is you know most of the people who are like extras or who are at minor parts are usually very quiet And they don't say anything you obviously have a personality you like to entertain everyone So did did does it ever come up like like where do we find this guy? You know Made it come up all the time I've been so fortunate from the lucky every movie I've done They've been picked by a part and I've been in the next sequel So for instance when I was on Is it Bell? John Love it's turned up on everyone's excited about it But I want to think I've learned about celebrities one Is don't go up and add a north man put him on a pedal full because there's a yes Is that and they look at you with a fan? I want you to look at me as another man If you respect the man to man, you know you still back to you Wow, I'm giving you your respect, but I'm not rain. Oh my god Oh, I'll give you a quick story that I'll explain this. I was no rowdy-rottie pipe at the Shubby lady rest well Odle legend this is my five manager Rick baston if you're out there Rick much love He even saw Randy's Randy's mate. What I'm talking about ready party pipe as many guys and Routy's got everyone around it everyone and Rick's like this don't meet him. I said bro I don't want to go and bug him. I said no no he wants to meet you on us for the AK tools We walk up and I should keep saying I said Routy I am a huge fan of yours. Are you got nothing but my respect miss and I don't want to be one of those Our whole best stand here and just take up all your time I just want to let you know I respect you. So I walk away two minutes later He walks up to me goes no one has ever done that to me Yeah And then I'm like no I broke course of course They'll be like talking and then other people will then people will walk up to and start talking to it And then I said listen rowding you don't know them you don't want to talk to them just keep looking at me But he always has his pen. I actually walk up and I just say hey listen rowding But I don't even know what I said I don't even be rude But rowdy's got any important in it if you do and I couldn't believe we're hitting and have someone Well, I had no handler and no handler there Yeah, but he was mate. He was like so professional talking to everything so So when I see John lovers on the set you know the way I look on the name looking at my Yeah, I think they're name looking guy right outside on the cell phone For some of my John lovers is walking up and I'm on the stuff You're my home you're going John lovers can walk out of me trail up but I'm like I've got a cool up got a cool I'm I just look at him and he looks at me and he seems to be looking at me We're in the I went in the back space in here. It's a were a last and he just goes He goes hey you do and I just give him a nod and then we've been in there Oh my thing we're about to walk in on tape I walk in my feet black out over the toes everything you look at me go oh fucking hell I bet you I thought you were and the kill me He was he got nervous he thought you were like I think I was money to someone and you thought you were gonna And then so I thought you were God, and that's what he goes where did they find you? He said that he was ready they find you I thought he was someone bodyguard or something And we got on really well that we're just hanging out and he was a funny guy And they're actually seeing the movie before I kill someone where John finish you'd be talking because he's Jewish and they've got this thing where they go oh yeah Oh, yeah Yes, and he goes he just says this because John's really into comedy and I love him pro Yeah, so he just goes my name was great. I think it was movie and he gets looked at me He goes oh He goes I do and I go oh oh Oh, and he goes and they printed it and they go that's in the movie That's great. Now when's this his a bell of movie coming out when can we see this thing? Mate, I'm waiting on the information. They're actually thinking of retyling the movie So I stood as like an animation you know what I'd love to come back on your show You've been up there don't win anything's going you find it's grundy Zing wordy for the world of Dave Philamball would like to actually be we we I got a lot more stories Because they know you got a lot more stuff to tell us about Venice gold and a lot more stuff going I know you've been doing a lot of commercials to him people don't understand they think you know They think commercials is like the lowest part of their acting you can possibly do but the commercials pay You know they you can make money with commercials. There's a lot of residual income there How many you got running right now? I've got a total of seven national selling mate and like he said National commercial be your bread and butter yeah, I'm all make For instance probably on average 20 grand. I'll make on a national right Tell people you can make good money at those things. Yeah, I've known people that made up 150 all it just really depends on how much you get run Right and the coolest ones I've got going on the foster big guys like I knew the couple we got to get together for these stories while I'll give it a run down I'm the foster's big I've got four with them and Then I was also with Tica do keep a mate on my name on a professional spider I break he's a rib during the filming of this one and he gave me a casino with a box He won't be featured out of each other at Warner Brothers I got it with fun bro. That was the land dream I've got another 18th peak commercial is the bodybuilder When I had the long hair people put it was going to come I like that to me goddamn it That's great. I didn't know that was you that that was your neck and russia Yeah, everyone thought it was going to I talk with the councilman I said damn I must have been and the coolest one I got going I guess the funniest one is and I think it's still running right now Is we've run and carry from funds with any keys or route either be the bad I love I love on that. I get one of my favorite shows We did a national Elmo commercial together That must have been fun See yeah Two bad asses working with a little Elmo gole was pretty special. Is that running currently? Believe it is made. I believe it is if you wanted to link to anything I can you know if you wanted to put them up on your web spider or anything I've got semi to links up put them on the radio show thread so people can see these commercials You're in guy you're a you're a terrific personality in our industry You're good for the sport you speak your that's the kind of guy I like the hang out with them We're gonna have you back here again and you'll keep us updated we'll get more stories about people you've beaten up and guys You want to beat up and people you might be up in the future But for now or do we're out of time here? What's your website so people can check it out? My thanks for that. Yeah, that would be just a guy grundy dot com and if you guys just Getting in contact with me there. I'm on big on the faithful thing We can get a scoogle guy grundy or um and also I'll really I'm really interested in what Eric Barrett's got to say about this like if you want to even question if I know he's lovely bodyboarding But he's definitely here about this so all I've got to say do I hear it? Okay, Eric. I'm I can do the friend of the entire world or the worst enemy and you're fighting out So sometimes you fuck the derong person homeboy and on the one is it I'm gonna I'm gonna get the Aaron jubac a singer to get on this story because this I want to find out all the details behind the Eric the Laurel quality of gold. You might even know about this and no matter what he says Julien's doing their rights and watch the whole thing and this is Julien who's a good fighter by the way It happened double in green. I walked up to him. I go Julian. I'm sorry that I did that in front of you and in Julian's work We're pretty looking for the only guy like that. I cut believe you didn't do anything The one and only guy grundy doesn't get better than that guy. Thanks for calling him Right, thank you everyone. Thank you. That was the one and only guy grundy What a personality this guy is I I could have talked to him all that I had actually to tell you the truth He has got such good stories and he doesn't pull any punches and he can bet your bottom doll that every word out of the guy's mouth is true He's just one of these guys. It has this you know that's treat respect thing He doesn't need to lie. You know, he's lived a hard life and I'm glad to see he's doing so well And I we got to get him to write a calm for our ex muscle because this guy is An arm of the story and I'd love to hear what Eric the Laura has to say about what happened. Oh my god It's pretty crazy, but this this coming weekend We have the Arnold fitness weekend coming up and we have so much to do so much going on Don't forget we have a the Rx muscle meet up six p.m. at the higher regency and downtown Columbus Make sure you guys show up and we'll have a few drinks and a few laughs and take some pictures and Hopefully put them up on the board and all those good things and then obviously stay tuned all weekend long for the Rx muscle coverage Christy technician aceto will be there. I will be there Aaron jubacca singer Minimal be there as well as the Rx muscle crew Reporting live from the event all the great stuff that's going on this entire weekend Which I will not rehash one more time But for now we are at a time and I'd like to thank Guy Grundie for stopping by until next week Remember with heavy muscle radio the truth Muscle radio is a presentation of our Exmuscle.com the truth in bodybuilding to the next week at the same time Burn of the round with Dave full of bow only on heavy muscle

Heavy muscle, real. Our next guest is an accomplished IFBB Pro Bodybuilder, best known as the Mind. He has trained many top IFBB bodybuilders, as well as himself to victories in the Pro ranks. We have not heard very much from him the last couple years, but we got him back here, only on our X muscle. Welcome Milo Sarchev. Hi there, thank you for having me. We tracked you down at the Tuckawal, but we found you in the Dominican Republic of all places. How the heck did you get there? Well, actually, I got you. I was in a few months, I went for a bodybuilder, a type of traffic booth, and a pleatum. I met three guys from the American Republic, and we were just training with a super intensity. And as I decided, I wanted to go back in training and made it compete in 2000s. I asked for me to build extra reconsidered heavy mid-year, so I can maybe work for the gym and do my best. I'm sharing with them. So that you can make me train with my friends at the Clon Call of Scemo, who I'm called as Rayas and I'm a Guillermo. They're my favorite partners in the Mexican Academy, in the five weeks. Actually, six weeks, not that I train, I'm pretty much back to my normal offseason kind of condition. So, 52 in the United States, so I believe I'm going to compete next to this year actually 2000s. Like a movie, we start at the end, and then we go backwards. So right now you're at 252, things are going well, you putps your size back on, you're thinking about getting back on stage again. And the truth of the matter is that it took you, you've been through a lot of drama the last several years. And I wanted to just take people back, because a lot of people think, thought maybe you went crazy, some people were saying you died, some people were saying that all kinds of crazy stuff I heard. I heard rumors up there. You made my rumor, middle-sale, like I don't have anything wrong with me. So, what number one, let's go back to when you had you gym. The Coliseum gym was one of the most hardcore gyms in the country probably. Everyone who went there loved the gym. I saw you at an Olympia, I think you were at a booth promoting the gym. What happened to the gym exactly? Because I've heard stories of you breaking into your own gym, stealing your own money, what happened? Give us the whole time frame and when this all went down. That crew, which just said, I mean, probably only in America, this can happen to keep him getting to be owned face to a business. Actually, it's not called a film gym, it's real shot from called film gym. July to 2010, I was arrested for pursuing my own money from my own life at my own personal business. How does that happen to me? So exactly you tell me, I came to the gym to pick up the father's. I picked up the deposit, I was going to weigh out. My daughter was going to cry waiting for me to get to two minutes of the father's doing. We can drive home. I was attacked by my wife at the time of the business partner. The one who had a little more starts, the same. Correct, because she had a problem that I took the baguette of the deposit. This is something that you did all the time, right? You did every day, did the same routine. For 11 years. Okay. Of course, you have a security camera as a manager. I don't know if you've been there, I don't even remember the very people who were. He thinks about five steps from the best where I had the father's to the baguette or my daughter. So I made those five steps when I came out and I was attacked from behind. Actually, I was punched in the head from behind to the point that I dropped the bag. Who punched you? My last step. The last step. Your sister from London should be milling Mars. Sister. Sister. Exactly. And again, if somebody really knows about pressure points and martial arts, it's actually a special pressure points that call Vimpool behind the right ear. And if you know, I have a huge library of the energy that's started through theology and that's of me, the psychology and martial arts. So actually, I had that book through the pressure points. So you try to really want to check. It's called Vimpool right behind your right ear. If you want to kill somebody that's too soon when you hit them. Right? Do you think that she was trying to kill you? No, I'm not going to say it like this. Is it not a little clean to do this or are you out of all places to defunct exactly there? It's kind of, you know, a multi-level thing, right? That was she a strong lady. I mean, I'm trying to imagine getting hit by a woman. Actually, yeah, it's not some lady and that's why I was actually quite shocking that I was from the time show a little girl on the 20 times. Maybe actually drop the bag of her folding. So anyway, that was the case. She was still swinging around and I checked the punch me, I basically flat her. And I'm seeing this, hopefully, you know, and I also am flat in every country I saw, means warning my punishment. There you have this, there's static. Right. My daughter was missing all that stuff and basically, in police reports, actually, she's just exactly that. I can close, I've seen my father coming in with a bag. My aunt and my mother attacking him from behind. My aunt and my she and my head. My mother is taking the bag right back inside and my father is flat my aunt. She came to the car and he drove home. And that's pretty much exactly what happened. Now, if you can tell me, you know, didn't you know, didn't you? Why would anybody, your own wife, attack you in the driving bag? She's trying to rob the money from you. Is that what you were trying to do? Actually, what this happened is for 10 years, that I'm running the business. There was 16 photo of businesses run from my gym. There were all these names and that's not registered. I don't sell any, it's close office. It's anybody who wants to check if they can go to our own county clerk and record it about this. So, let me ask you a question. Were you making good money at the gym at the time that this all went down? Yes, I was making these in my place for 10 years. Again, everybody is in gym business. They know it's probably not the best gross thing business. But you know, you can lose comes to the lick. And I was to have a gym for a lot of years. So, there was a decent business, but I had a three additional business next to that. However, gym business alone, as a close fitness, I took a photo of gym with making a certain profit. At the same time, my wife has registered 16 different businesses as a nurse, a shatial co-steam gym. With a carry, wheelchair co-steam fitness center, wheelchair co-steam with a fee. Then, of course, you'll gear co-steam there. And all this can be proved there in the town in the orange county clerk's court is up. It's an open parameter to check. There was 16 different businesses with my wife's family was running inside my gym. And the reason why they attacked me was because in that deposit that day, they were sexually deported for the physical business, not just for mine. Wow. So, the reason why they attacked you like the light of the pan on it is because they would be a proof of everything they were doing behind my back. Oh, so, they were, this money that you were taking was from all these side businesses that they were running? Yeah, that's true. They're doing a special day to come home because they were very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much to the, what's been to the airport. And it was quite late, so they probably didn't count on the new county with that day. And so, they were not careful and, you know, they had that all this different business in that bag. So, when they do the bag, you know, it's coming out, of course, they attack me. How much money was in that bag, Milas? I didn't have a chance to open it. I'm going to check it because there's this bag that I took the money to the bag, I was going to make car. My daughter was waiting for me, obviously, had something PM. So, it was going to be late. And, you know, when they attacked me, this was going to be my, a lot of the door. So, my daughter was visiting. Inside, for different cameras, we were pointing at the place, you know, to prove what they have to do inside. But, to make some very short, certain minutes later, police officers came to my home in China. I didn't really do my rights to be in the American, it just directed me. It's just been to the airport and TV and in the station, he told me my charges and charges were. Rather, he ran past the domestic violence, charges and charges and agents. And I was just in shock. So, I told him, it's really what did I steal? So, he said, yeah, I stole from my own wife. I think it's really, how's him personally, in the United States, is the institutional of the marriage, the community property, you know, from the south. Every side said, I didn't take anything because I didn't end up with a bag. But, you know, I use the course. I say, excuse me, there's a poor camera in the inside, and there's a may witness from the outside, you know, telling me in the exact same way what happened because she did tell police officers you know, straight in that day, what happened, however, I was over the left. Now, obviously, my daughter, I can put the gun statute of blind justice, held his new identity. And it's so close. I was in the United States, right? I can't share with the free. I'm a criminal guilty of that. It's a little bit more problem of a criminal case. But, obviously, you see what I end up. I was in the 24 days in the National Security jail, waiting for a free trial. They keep bus-growing and bus-growing and post-blowning. And finally, on the free trial date, my only witness, my daughter, was actually taken by my wife in Canada, so she couldn't attend the free trial. And my wife, doing so that's, you know, for questioning. So, my family, hearing, excuse me, don't hear me hearing. You know, with that, and I would tell that I need to be a treatment rating for my children. I would teach child and parents, and then I got no problem for a child. Now, when you have a maximum security jail, to the 24 hour lockdown, and you spend it in the days, obviously you're spent considering your options. I was never going to be the guilty. I was always speaking to my parents, and, you know, I've had it like this, and I hide a lawyer from the other girls. Robert Burston, or I said, that's the good guy's defense of the family. You have a bunch of kids there, and that's nothing, because they were just like postponing it, because they're alive day, and then I chose to play guilty, you know, get 10 or 10 48 days' firm and probation. So, this is what happened in the meantime. Let me ask you, let me stop here for some time. Because I know what people are wondering right now. We got to try to get into the mindset of your ex-wife, why would Mil and Mar want to do this to you? Why would she want to attack you, take money, which obviously she felt was hers, and then charge you and get you thrown in jail. What was the purpose? You guys were supposedly married. What was going on in the marriage at this point? I was in a high-fin Rocky marriage as an infant, but if you didn't listen from being, my wife opened a 15 different businesses behind my back. It was 15 total 15 behind my back. What kind of business do we talk about here, Milas? It's online supplements, online clothing. There was just some food in the kitchen. If you can, it's a kitchen gym. Sometimes you're going to get a recipe that goes to a kitchen, sometimes in the kitchen, gym, sometimes with a... Oh, Milas, that's a powerhouse gym, Milas, that's a road gym. You know, so all these businesses, they would basically grow different copies. So she was following money out of your main business. Is that what she was doing? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. For years, you have to learn the why would somebody do that, right? That's what I'm doing. That's what you answer. And you know, two focus, I was going to learn later. I know that many people, of course, especially my savings, get big enough money to become a public delusional and a gigantic, thin, god knows what else. You know, auto-mame-mime, but you tell me, if I can Milas actually be accused in charge for studying, he's only running from Milas at your post-unsyms.

I mean, can you be accused of stealing money from Alex Massell if you are the only owner, for example? I mentioned that I can enjoy the accused of being a leader enterprise in South America. I mean, shouldn't mind bothering to me and I always wondered that the people even think for a second before they said something to them out and saying whatever. I was charged for robbery and grand-tathed space. Some of the intimate international news is going to be a key. What did I feel? My own money? What went on when you were in jailed, Milis? Who was watching over the gym and running the gym? Was your wife still doing that? Well, yeah, she was the only trusted family and female. And then of course when I came out, she was a basic enclosed, and she was a victim by the new owners of the building. In the meantime, I'm okay with the most important thing for Gadgeta. I got a three year old restaurant owner that I came up to the gym to the house, or how I did it, the way from my daughter, my wife, and my sister-in-law. So you can't go to your own gym? You can't go to your own gym. You can't go to your own gym for your own house, right? It's the two years of seniority. Wow. Now, what you saw on her of the gym, which her name on the gym leases well. No, I mean, everything, if you, I, I was just a village and a lot of international management management, I was not your new. So I mean, I think that I had instantly a couple of given career. Oh, you know, so of course she was 50% older as they gave her that, of course. So, you know, I'm actually, imagine becoming out from the jail, finding out the total credit card for cancelled, the bank accounts were closed, and then you cannot go to the media or your houses that had a two houses, one in the next year or one in China. Neil, it's after you listen to what you just told me, people are going to be thinking one of two things. It is only one of two possibilities. Either you're a homicide lunatic or your wife is completely nuts, because what are you guys' lines? Or the truth is somewhere in between. I mean, I still don't get the whole concept. It sounds like she's very angry at you and she was trying to get almost like a revenge type of thing against you. Did you guys ever talk after this whole thing went down and try to work through what might have been the reason why she did all this to you? I know, of course, she was always denying everything. You know, calling me every man in the book, because it was an old foreign country, which I make you name it. The truth is always, the good enough amount I had all the two. Everything that I had actually, was in my car that I came to court and my April 8th, when I finally had my lawyer Robert Prince, who was the first person to go to the attorney that day, because before that I had to public defend her. So as I hired him, he told me he cannot accept any of this proof before he's a fishery my lawyer. So as the plan, I showed up at the April 8th, when I'm on the court date for a hearing for him to ask for a suspicion and after the hearing, I was going to give him all the, the proof. The proof was on a computer and the print is like about 5,000 pages of everything that I had for many years, you know, to prove with them things. About 38 different credit cards in the money that I didn't know about. Numbers alone, bank loans, that on my name, that my knowledge throughout the years, to life insurance policies for many of our each with me there, it needs to be even insured in my life thing, as the only one in the fishery. My little, that I never basically signed, but obviously was signed and I interesting to get you on the given, it's easy to know but he accepts my life for the show, the only thing in the fishery as well. So all these things flew right there. And basically when I was there in April 8th, my dad was excited as my wife flew to the hospital after all, because I had to stay on the 50,000 bail, and that's how I was actually out and I was traveling. And that's hearing I asked her a judge and the topic defender permission to go back to the river far air to visit my mother. But they gave me that right, that the thing that exactly where I was that I was neither far there telling, but when I came back, parents the bail bondsman was afraid that I tried to flee the country and they sent her a bail stating that my wife flew the house of the collateral. So there was an examiner that was directed at the same moment. I gave the key because I was directed in the court. I gave the key to my lawyer, I told him exactly everything is there. You know, make sure that you take his and as we as a key. What they found out was that he's doing pay the key or the citizens the same day, the same day when they gave the attorney to the criminal accounts and the attorney's attorney's file was not there. That file was already towed to my house and the claim to them that there was nothing inside. So there was no evidence. So all your evidence that you collected was got rid of by someone. All the evidence that you had accumulated was disappeared. Yeah, it disappeared. The file was passed in front of my house. I read through my life, that's the car. And I got to my computer and got for the evidence. And obviously she denied this. No, I'm out of my mind that was going to take in the car. Now, were you supposed to leave the country? Is that why they re-arrested you when you came back in? No, I mean, in the center, I allowed by the judge and metodling defender to go one month to the business, my mother. And so far, in the previous hearing summary and the February, when I asked for permission to travel in my mother's 70 years old and not be read itself. Obviously, very much affected by my situation and editing. It's happening to me. You know, when there's the reason to be the permission of the judge, but apparently I did not report to my daughter, but I'm sure that they're both independent and traveling. And the examiner is my bail. Wow. So you get back in jail. What was it? I mean, you were in a maximum security prison you told me. Yeah, the maximum security jail, much security prison. Oh. So it's an honest county, a maximum security jail. You know, a lot of lawyers say, I don't want to act as any, you know, I don't want to simply show anyone and know that stuff. I think anything in life happens for reason. I think I'm guilty of alloweding all this to happen. And I learned the lesson and I actually appreciate what they're learning, how to actually describe the profession, every little thing and be grateful for. You know, because one thing is jail and realize, you know, the other side and the other life and how, you know, people are when you don't have anything and you don't have your freedom and you have told them to get out and went to go to the bathroom and separate that. You know, you said to appreciate it what you have. I think as many of people you guys says don't realize you know, that and feel, you know, the kid who's taken away. I have a 40 hour lockdown in the history of the San Diego in a six man cell. And you have a one hour day to maybe a walk, take a shower and then see TV and they did make a phone call. Wow. So, so, how long were you in jail for total? 24 days. Wow. That was, was anyone messing with you? Did they all like asking questions about working out and stuff like that? I mean, you know, I don't know what school. I mean, that's what you get to do. So, I think you have real quick about training and about designing and efficient implementation. Pharmacology, if you know what I mean? Sure. You're lucky. You got all that knowledge. Those guys love that stuff. Yes. And speaking about it is not giving you. So, of course, I told him how to use the sickly supplements if you will.

Did they have steroids in jail or is that not? No, I haven't seen it enough. No, because I know some jails they do, probably not the lockdown you were in, I'm sure. No, no, I haven't seen nothing there. I mean, I haven't seen a vitamin C. What are you eating? What are you eating on a daily basis of the baloney sandwiches? Yeah, because when I was in San Francisco, and then I was first in a red set of white sets, the yellow sets, I mean, basically, that there are two, usually, you wouldn't even serve to the dogs. You know, you know, a horrible, horrible, I mean, a non-etitial value, you know, this packet calories, you know, all that stuff. So actually, you know, that and lots of times of muscle, and I was very, very much, which was expectable, you know. The dog, you know, that experience, one thing that they learned over day to the body of the food, because when you don't have a food and when you're starving, then you realize, you know, what light is I, over a little bit, you know, triple-plescent light, you know, when I was out, you know, I was taking a picture of the food and editing out, you know, differently. It's, I mean, I know first hand, I wasn't in as difficult as situations you were. I wasn't in lockdown 25, three hours a day, but I know what it's like to lose my freedom, and you really have to surrender when you were in there. Did it change you when you were in prison when you got out? Do I, you like a different person, how do you think? I know I was. I did, but as a believe it, I was there for a reason and I know, it's something that's found that don't regret being there because I really, I valued my life in my dictionary now, and I'm enjoying it, you know, moment of it. Now, when you got out of prison, at some point, I don't know, what year was this, what was the date you got out of prison, you remember? Uh, yes, July 7th. Of what year? It depends on the 11th. Okay, this year. Now, right, right, right, let's just be less sure. So in July, you get out of prison. At what point did you realize the gym was in jeopardy, and they were going to probably, you know, close you down? Uh, the gym was always close from December, you know, from the family who's closed as decadently shared with you, and it's just re-altern on the different main and supposed with different owner, you know, in a United States, you know, when you have a lot of business advisors, legal advisors, and that's when bankers, and business associates, you can very easily pretend that somebody else owns the building and somebody else has the ownership of the gym, and on the basically everything is clear. My life is in a business, is my ex business partner, and your wife still owns the gym. Is that what you're saying? Is your wife still owns the gym? Uh, not some of the bankers. Uh, oh boy. But she's in the gym. She works at the gym, and she's there. Uh, well, I'm not theorized, it's safe to confirm that, and other people who can check in, and if they're not for themselves. I mean, somebody's a gentleman, you know, she's the interviewer, and somebody should be here for a couple of days. I would love to be on the same show with her, you know, because maybe I'll get her. I'll call her up. I got to call her up, but you got to get her on the phone and see what she says. Maybe you can go right now. Yeah, I don't want to get her while you're on the phone. That won't go well. We know how that went last time. You got, you went and get in the hit behind the ear and I was killed. What? What happened now? The timeframe in my mind is a little screwed up. What happened when you, I remember reading in the newspaper that you also got arrested for breaking into your own gym? Was that when was that the whole episode with your wife calling the cops? Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was the main thing. That was the thing. That's the official initial charge. You know, it's just a different portion of the, I was, I didn't break into the gym. I came to the gym, pick up deposits and I was meeting all the bathrooms and I was a chargemaker as it said. The robbery was going to pass the salt. The medical items and all that stuff. Wasn't the gym though closed? At that point, Milas, I thought they shut you down. At some point, is it a failure to pay something? So originally, I was arrested July 6, 2010. Right. Okay, and the regime was working. A gym was closed in December of 2010. Right. And I was arrested again in April of 2011. As it had, when they came back for hearing, having my lawyer from Beverly Hills, that was doing like a strengthening. And, uh, January 3, 2013, which was July 7, 2011. As I retired to three of you here to get out of that place. Because really, as you can imagine, you can really play to your mind and learn and learn and learn. You know, you know, so I made my choice. No. So they closed? Why was the official closing of the gym when you weren't supposed to be there anymore? What day was what day was that? I was in December of 2011. I was staying over 2000 and 11. No, I carried 2000 and 10. Okay, so you were continuing to operate out of the gym, even though they supposedly closed you down. Is that what was happening? No, no, no, no, the gym was closed. So why are you going there to pick up the posits then? Uh, I mean, you have a vaccine at the gate. So the light 10, the light 8 of a 2000-10 gym was here. Okay. I was operating the business and this is when I was arrested. Oh, you said that you said the 2011 before. I think you might have messed up the day. The July 2010. Okay. The Chandler's salary is changing and flowing. Got you. Six months later. You never went back to the gym after that while it was closed? No, no, I had no right. Okay, I didn't think so because I was the story that was going on. I wanted to clarify that so you were got attacked by your wife and you were arrested. In June, July of 2010, while the gym was still open, obviously when you were in jail, continue to operate and then at some point in December, they closed you down permanently. Is that right? Got you. Exactly. All right. Now, what happened following when you got out of prison the second time, I heard rumors that you were sick. You had cancer. Will any of these true? I mean, I probably died five times according to the rumors and I have had a disease on her. You know, you know, I had to Sunday leave the rumors. I just didn't want to be involved in any of those working boys because if you know, you say you're a lot and then they caught your mother, you know, because you don't suppose to say hello. You know, try the years you have been involved in a, you know, getting that jam and my, that's like yours and being on. I tried to strengthen all that you're checking for people, you know, I tried to give advice directly for free. We'll be speaking about our, you know, our ex-myself, I was getting an ad, the description recommendations, but because I know that the victim here, compared to the using right. As you know, I'm a lot of experience which is in fact the subject, I'm not perspective director, people are talking is actually constructed as drug medicaments, but promote projecting metabolism. The only thing is abuse. So I was trying to discourage those, those, those are on these boards to believe that the professional body is a thank you enormous amount because they don't, you know, they use much less of people to believe. So when I post the actual cycle, you know, they, they, they, they, they, they, they, they're talking about the big of a flight on the race and the, and over the main of the books. But you know, there's a lot of haters. I mean, what can you do? You guys just to be helpful and there. Yeah, I'm up there to say so. I love where I see and I check the situation before. Yeah, we have to stay on our boards, our boards are a little bit less negative than some of these other boards. Yeah, I love that. I'll have to restore you, me, less because we, we need you. More people like you were telling a, giving good advice. Are you concerned with the state of of professional body building? Because there's been a couple people. I know a good friend of yours look would just recently pass away from kidney failure. What, what, what's your take on that whole situation? Well, we are, we look at the very, very kind of minds that such and so, you know, and he was actually trying to communicate with me. I didn't know that he had a, a kidney transplant. And I actually had a radio show for Australian radio companies that day before he died. And I actually made even, you know, kind of joke about him or, hey, you know, somebody tell me, can you check the unique thing for what people are doing and following. And the next day he died, you know, the, just run for a heart. And you think a lot of the message guys, I'm sure that you know, would be mad him, you know, the factory's individuals. You know, he was just physically probably not trying to be extreme in another strength of that word because it's extreme sport. He'd be extreme things. So, kind of the sum of the things affected his renal system and kidneys. And he hasn't had that transplant. As you know, he's going to be only probably the kind of transplant. But he's got to be objective. So, that's the tragic thing. And the, and the guy goes to his family. You know, I actually had that to play. He's thought that he was not there. And then, he's definitely moved to me. And a lot of us can have to say really crushing you from me. Now, you know, you and I both know that kidney failure usually has a lot to do with high blood pressure. I think this probably a lot of pro bodybuilders out there. Even other regular bodybuilders that probably have a lot of undiagnosed high blood pressure, which is why they call it the silent killer. Do you try to encourage your athletes to get more health checkups and blood work on a regular basis? Because I think a lot of bodybuilders just ignore it. Here's how the unit in this section is, back in 1998, the Central Pistol Pro-Indefacial. I had a bit of a contact from Baffle Labs, a camin to the police meeting and offering. To all the athletes, you know, or blood checkups, you know, random unit in the program. And I think the 28th pro bodybuilder is with us. Of course, there is some fatty and zel, like some bacteria in the inhibitor at the time. But they offer a free test. And one of the athletes due to get test actually was worn. You know, this is what pressure his kidneys were in a dangerous way. And this opposition man, then he actually had a problem. I had to learn how to respect the naming and the nets. I was always in an exaggeration from anybody that works with the community that got test. You know, to check the formal levels and all the comprehensive bodybuilders out. Is this really the health? Do you think that, if the person be healthy? No, it's, do you think that they should have, I'm against drug. I'm against steroid testing, I think it's ridiculous because we know all bodybuilders take them. Do you think they should have what we call health testing where before a competition, if your blood pressure is not good, if like gross abnormalities, where your health is acutely in jeopardy, do you think that they should disqualify you or not allow you to compete because of this? Well, I did another give a call of that. I understood the presumed as my answer. However, I can tell you something the other bodybuilders should take. Actually, push into the dangerous levels of the dehydration due to the standard. And when we talk about the blood pressure, right, but you are taking the aeretics and the height of the yourself. And it's possible to wait to achieve that condition. You needed the dehydration. You can be serious. It's a health issue and we need to bet. So I think that just judging criteria and the time to do is fortunately for five from time. Yes, it's accepted for the different states. It's extremely hydration to have the full dry look. Basically, you know, health hazard is the biggest risk there is. You know, I think that the men of the aerodynamic families, they're not seem to call them as close as they actually abuse their aeretics. You know, because as you know, many of the bodybuilders believe it should take one. It's been a given result, but if you take 10 is going to be 10 times better. So my results will take 100. Yeah. Well, 200. And this is times wins.

What do you think about what's the crazy amount of drugs you've ever heard of a bodybuilder taking? Well, I'm going to tell you like this. I should not say the name, but let's say you're up in bodybuilder, then it's kind of this close. I'm the living proof that no amount of service can kill you. I mean, really, I was being probably regretting the Chinese Senate's sentiment with statements about 80 cc of virus injectables a day. What? It'll happen. I think, third day. Oh my god. 80 cc, you know, you may not have said that. You know, if you would call it a cocktail. You know, it was shocking. Actually, most of my athletes from the head of working with them, you know, the dramaticity of these, they're very good. You know, were they surprised? Were they surprised? Were the athletes surprised when you said you got to stop taking so much? Yes. Many of them, because they actually believed the series, you know, some, you know, there's a lot of people like to, you know, believe that they're doing this like that because they're doing this more than anybody else. Right. Well, I mean, actually, when I get one of those messages that I have seen, you know, in 15 years, I was competing at the Ivy League broke. And again, they're going to say how many believe they got in, I say, well, you can never really believe to nobody if they've been somebody's consistent and for 10 years, you may hear the same thing. And you can believe. Now, I was there, I was entitled for the Patriotic Competitors. And many times, those shots were the amount of the, I recommend, which are, you know, much more of the documentation. And this is going to point out, you know, it's much better to pay just more and more just like a certain point that the benefits stop the entire fight to overcome the benefits. You're absolutely right. You know, the truth is also, I mean, you could validate this, when you and I were speaking back in the 90s, back when I was over 300 pounds and you were up real heavy and you're best. I mean, I mean, you have to have the other two. The dosage is where much lower. I tell people at the time, knowing used more than a thousand milligrams of test back then. And people don't believe me. I hadn't said this and get big in the summer, said it this your mother is the horse. Yeah. You're right. But I'm glad you're here to validate this. People didn't use as much drugs in the 90s, even though they look like they did, because I think that people trained harder back then. Yes. And they've been realized so much on the, you know, from the physical. If you're big ass this and I know, I'll get big. I posted, I know, he's one of the 10, 100, 50 milligrams of test a week. You know, for me, that was the, Microsoft, those that found this necessary. I'm sure that you can tell us about two geniuses. Whether it's a study, it's a anybody can do the little. With a can of the people that was under normal level of the pattern of the nuts. Meating of the, the low levels of the pattern, but normal level of the pattern, the tests on taking a 600 milligrams a week, a 10 week straight and they had a zero negative side of the types of and many benefits from it. Yeah. I've run this, that yes. Yeah. That study, that's very, very good many times when it comes to a lot of the. The reason to people that that actually just went from home on for a hundred types of happy. It's not a necessary to say more and it's not dangerous to think that much. Right. But again, it's probably for you again. I might regret it later. You know, it's going to be like promoting something that I don't suppose. Well, you know what, but people people don't realize that when you overwhelm your body with toxicity, because of so the over use of what you're taking, your body can't process protein and build muscle anymore because it's so toxic. So actually taking too much can actually inhibit muscle growth in essence. Yes. Yes. It is all kinds of type of cast-k, the V events that can trigger all kinds of systems to fail. You know that the real failure is a bit of a pit-bottomsail or a cardiovascular, all that stuff. You know, once you, you are affected by the negative, you know, everything goes down. So, you know, I'm about to say that you know, it can all go down the body and be simultaneously even hit the body. And as I said, it promotes constricted metabolism. So it's not just dangerous, drug-etpecially medicaments made for medical purposes, even for treatings. So when you are going to be victim like that was in 2004. First thing that I got in the burn unit was the frontal lome. You know, Dr. Tantumi and Tomi Lichoke, as sure, we're going to, you know, implement on the burning theories in you. And so I want you to be aware of, but there's this case, though, what were my goals, which, you know, because the more the using it, I was given like 20 million people who stand along to treat day-to-day running into the medical purposes of the spring center. And so anyway, the family actually healthy medicaments, they can enhance health of many individuals. They use right. You know, I remember this many times. I remember when you, when you were burned, because I remember you me and Rick Collins had lunch, some sushi in San Diego there where I was, had my trial going on. And you had just gotten, I guess it was a week after you had gotten burned doing some, what were you doing? Like a stunt for some movie or some... Yeah, yeah, I was being made stunts in, you know, I guess the cut and fire and I had a 43 burn in my face and the arms and back. And I actually told you, I actually said to you, I said, mellas, you look like you just got a facial peel. You're skin looked great, actually. You said it was from the starry, you told me it was from the ball the starry tailing it. Yeah, yeah, the parents didn't make me look so young. Well, let me tell you, I don't have anything like it, so I set for life, of course, skin, skin, and that age you pretty much turned on yourself. Yeah, tell me about it. I see. Actually, maybe you just cut them fire again or get the face. Yeah. We could talk about steroids probably for a whole shust. Let me, let's take a step back again. You got out of prison. How did you win? Where did you go right after prison? What did you just start doing for money? Did you immediately leave the country or go to Finland or was there, someplace in between before that? And where actually, in a fluency, as I said, I was a human, a restraining order, initially from a judge, it was led a lower to peaceful contact. I think they actually contacted my daughter, you know, under supervision in my wife's life being there. So, as soon as the gem out of the jail, I'll go again, pet him by my wife, which is very colorful these again. You know, I could say in a house and it's time to go to Finland. Now, I'm actually going to Finland September 8th for the Nordic Pro show there. What was your connection to Finland? Who wanted you out there? What made you decide to pick that country? Actually, I was a patient that was there. That interested in me, not with girlfriend. No female. Okay. This is a reason for a program to leave, right? How do you meet women in Finland? Do you face Bucke or what did that he did that? Well, I was here to say that. Actually, if you ought to just better change, you can accept the change. No, I was just guessing. I know you're a big face Bucke, that's why I asked. No, that's the reason why I should accept and I did it one day and I'm going to be too far and I'm going to go. Are you still with this girl? You're broken up. I'm not sure if you're a professionalist. I'm not going to be here. I'm here and I'm going to make your father. I didn't say, how do you get from Finland to Dominican Republic? Well, as I was in Finland, I was invited to Charlotte and my childhood should be. Charlotte's polyclin. You went to with Charles Polyclin in seminar. Correct. And then, as I was there, teaching, I actually met the types from the American Republic. My friends in Chinese partners in a great guy. I went to see more and I met him in one of our careers. And I basically assumed he was interested that I had and drive and desire to train. So I came to him and met up into the training mode. You know, when you have an experience of a lot of training. You know, it's kind of, you look very excuse in the book to meet the workout. I could never really get back into training. Well, I was in Finland with some reason. But then, when they came here, the rate was there. I said training and the training is a good thing days a week. You know, two power, high intensity. Now, I know that Charles Polyclin has a house in the Dominican Republic. Is that how you wound up there? Because Charles pointed you in that direction. He had shot his morning. Like he was the coach on the mind. He was the only one who did this right. This back to the value of great deal. His acting is many fields. Not just in training. But I love you. The fourth thing is the one also that the community is a family. I mean, the food here is somebody who's in a climate, you know, there's no pollution there is that it benefits the day here. You know, but again, there's others, hot shit. It's a good way out. What are you doing there? Are you training people? Yes. I just don't actually online and it's kind of consulting. I do this here in the National Institute of Medicine. I do a separation for our content for many athletes, from Asia, from Europe, from Latin America. And I do this exercise. You know, one of the exercises we know for people is just some fresh and expensive. So you do video, cut this video, Skype consultation. What is it cost to do a video, Skype consultation with Milo Sartre? Yeah, I trust $250,000. $350,000. $350,000. Now, will people stay on the line with you for more than an hour? Is that usually enough? Yeah, usually, you know, in the 20 hours. I'm not really sure if you're looking at the clock, if you're carrying it. Right. In one hour, you can be much in a taste. Just about a bit of a bit of a taste. I think you're under charging. I would do $350,000, $350,000. If I were you, you're Milo Sartre. Hello, I'm pleased to be my aide. I think you're two cheap Milos. How do people hook up? How do they contact you if they want to do these Skype things with you? All right. Yes. I just said my advice, I've never done it in a sense. I've done something that can be established, you know, with the downper for your wife. Wasn't on there? No, you can't do that because I won't be surprised if she captured this again. Yeah. And the taste looks, you know, you know, I'm fortunate there's about 10 year old Shatches on Facebook. I know, it's still. I actually even communicated one day. I had a great fun, you know, pretending in somebody else. There must be a few opinions of me. But what can I do? I mean, people do that. Yeah. So, um, you know, if you're from a plug-in, some of the tags, then that would be great. So you should be made. Yeah. I think you're definitely under charging Milos. What does it cost to do, uh, contest prep with Milos for 16 weeks? Uh, 2000 online. Okay. That's a reason. That's a good amount. That's a fair price. Now, what made you decide to want to go back to competition? What, what sparked you? I mean, how old are you? You got to be my aide, right? You got to be at least 43. Yeah. Thank you. I'm 47. Are you 47? Wow. Yeah. So, uh, yeah. I wish I knew. I'm, uh, I've seen, uh, being fairly at stage of 51 in the best shape of his life. Right. Uh, chances of the product age of 49 is the same show that was, uh, started at Grand Prix at 16, 2006, uh, in the best shape of his life. So, I was going to get a shadow that's in your minute. I was going to, uh, operate at 50. They actually can still achieve the, uh, the greatest of their experience. But there's really no excuse. In 1991, when I, as did not go to the view in South of Zay, I competed with the legend of the breakfast. But, uh, following the weekend, they made a whole pair of additional, if you won. And he was 61 years, uh, praise it at the time. Praise him. Uh, I didn't know the positive through his name back then. And then, because the manual trade is really only lambda.

I have seen some unmatched by the business in Spain, for example, at age of 76, which you would not believe, the condition that is really. Yes, so it's a few of the jobs, you know, I just found that the hazard of bodies is at least six months, we're being completely at a sort of one in different, you know, so it's very cycles, you know, as a turnover, you know, when we talk more into an over, it's a different over. I have a big fan of the great questions online, you can notice some of my mathematics algebra, your question is on, and I thought it was a good one, but those great courses went out on the few of the past 80, 90 and 100 years old, and I think it's been basically in fact waiting to die, so they put them on the training program, training resistance, based in training, and they're high-fledged by the pressure and the results are astonishing, so that was a proof that even 100 years old can highly benefit from training. You have a legit year old guy's and I get an up-on on a pro-body-bullies staging, competing against the best guys in the world, how do you think it would you be as good as you were? The last time you compete? I don't believe that yet, I could be because if I don't believe it, I wouldn't be when we were a bother. You've said why can't we compete again, once we're competing with all this competitors, and once we're going to build our ability to build our own free body-filled, we can pay for breaks, and we're going to be really given there, but deep down in the heart, you know, the pitch for yourself. For four years, actually, the most visible thing for me was, you know, to deny that, and then dieting and being a body-builder. I mean, that must have been, yeah, that must have been your worst punishment I would think. Yes, yes, and I compete at 100-centimes, whether it's too bad, it's a professional, you know, so every time you give people to you, you know, you're overdoing it, you don't do it, and I get into that mode of approaching literally brothers and family, you know, to time for me to start and retire. So I feel that urge to do the fish-based self-agentic elements. And there is no better motivated than a deadline, right, when you have a contest, and you know, you're going to set on that stage. There is no excuse, you know, and you cannot miss a meal or a workout. Well, I'm looking forward to seeing you up on stage again. Let me ask you this question, your wife kind of drove you out of the country, so to speak. Is it tough not seeing you daughter? I gotta imagine that that's got to be really hard on you. Yeah, this is the hardest part for me, and my daughter is basically very easy for me. I'm a difficult taxi report, I had no choice because there is no time to have a training order, then there's a special context, and I'm talking to her directly, she understands. She understands? Yes, she understands. Is she a daughter? How old is your daughter now? She's 13. Does she understand what's going on? Oh, yes, she understand exactly. You know, and she wants to mother, you know, and I want to listen to love her, and I don't want her to be bad to happen to her mother. But all these, I know a lot of people in my position that would think of some revenge or something, that's karma, whatever. No, I don't about myself to any cause like that. I wish her all the best, and I just hope she would be with mother to make child and to love her. I'm maybe to see her or in her position, maybe to have a good name, and it's a different point of the life. I think I'm going to come, Lary. I heard it's beautiful out there. Yes, please do. I mean, I think I can organize our X-Must-Bet. That's right. You can do the RX-Must-Bet, Dominican Republic division now, though. I mean, it's not like you can imagine that most of the planet is this. Yeah, that's what's good. It's always good to get a guy who's down on his lock, is there open to anything like you just said? That's right. Well, you know what? People, you know, everyone checks the knowledge that you have me listening. That's probably no matter how you do on a bodybuilding stage, you always have that respect of the bodybuilding community. And that's what I always pride in myself on. I didn't care how I competed, how I did. I did that because I liked it. I mean, people respect your mind and your brain and what you got going on in there. And hopefully we can start keep it directed in a positive direction, and you can start adding back to the sport that you love. Because that's really your greatest contribution, as far as I'm concerned. We are thinking of in the Repost-Metica as we said that all the perspectives we acknowledge. Unfortunately, I had another thing that you know, in fact, it's been from bad meaning behind it. But unfortunately, a lot of what it is, you know, followed the blind process, please, might be due. And often the nutritionists are really not nutritionists. They don't know what they're talking about, if it's either cookie-tatter programs to everybody. I know the key role original and you were older in the room to table and making changes in physics on a positive way. I was always paying to all my athletes. I run a bunch of them and I run my health. And if you want to my athletes, you want to have training with you that they were competing constantly. I don't believe in that so-called offseason, you know, excuse me, to put people to get fat. I remember seeing you all that's in shape and you're the time example of what the difference being 24 and 7, 365 days in a year. Often, we see again, for just half-closed, you know, showing up on the stage in the American shape. And it's really for me to write things for that. So, obviously, you know, I never really used that off of the words because what does it mean? And you're no longer about it, you can eat whatever, you're going to be confused to get big. Not going to want to get bigger, they want to have a more muscle. You know, you can do the reason a lot of calories not to be overloading yourself, putting your 50 pounds in and pressing your heart to protect the head of the high blood pressure and all other kinds of negative health effects. So, I didn't even say in shape year round, you know, when you're trying to come to the content, you just think to me to minor attacks. We got to get some, you got to post some progress pictures up over the next couple of months, you know, so that on the RX muscles of people can see how you look. I'm looking forward to seeing you get to go, you're going to do come to 2000. This one, like you said, I don't know how long it's going to take me for me to be satisfied with my condition. I'm not going to try any contracts yet. Okay. And I expect this, this is six to eight months that would be ready to compete with something you're going to fall. All right, Milo Sarsha is back in action. We will see him on stage in 2012 and he's available for consultations via Skype or the internet. You could check him out at his website, MiloSarsha.com. Milo, thanks. I want to do some more of these because I got some, a lot of questions to ask you and I need a lot of knowledge to give to the RX muscle community. So, this is going to be hopefully one of many interviews we'll do. I think the three of these, I actually apologize for listening to the video. I just talked about my personal issues, but that was just answering your question. Now we have to get that out. Yeah, I would love to ask you to give my point of view and training in nutrition because I do believe it's quite different. With people used to, it's not conventional, so maybe next time we can do that. Yes, we definitely will and we'll be in touch. The great Milo Sarsha. Thank you.

Every muscle real. Okay, our next guest, good friend of mine, been in the industry even long than I have, he's the new co-host of physique star radio. He's also an instrumental part of the new Myotropics company that Dr. Scott County has started up. It's my distinct honor to welcome Vince Andrews to show. How are you doing, Dave? Quite a beer. Vince, you've reinvented yourself way more than I have in this industry. Oh, I guess, you have to, right? Yeah, you're definitely like Madonna. You're like the Madonna of the supplement industry. Oh, man, never heard that one. What talk to us a little bit? For people who don't know who you are, tell us how you got started in the industry. Can you work for pretty much everyone? Yeah, I got started in this, I was a biographer. And I was selling products, based on that bottom from the distributor, and I was selling out of my condo. And so this is like in the 80s, and then started a company that was a distributor of nutrition, you know, forced nutrition, back when there was really only, I think, really three of us that focused on that. It was boss, public hearing. Public hearing. Yeah, and the Stella brothers. Right, they're out of business, right? Yeah, well, because Stella turned, of course, into optimal, and that's what they did. Oh, they did. Yeah, like, glamour, yeah. And then the other distributors were selling, you know, vitamins or all that stuff. So this whole idea of, you know, sports nutrition, only distributor kind of came around in the, like, mid 80s, 85, 86, maybe, and so from 88 to 92, right now, biophyphometrics started, I was a distributor. A big brand was twin lab, and weater, and, you know, that turned into my relationship with weater. And so then I went to work, I worked for weater nutrition for a couple of years, the devices and reports nutrition, and then actually the trade share of my wife met up to call, it's something like, and your other one of, move to California. And that's California. Yeah, that's California. So I went to work for Scott and metrics, and that's, what are we really met? Yeah. You know, metric that, right? And it was there for a couple of years, as you know, the company got sold, tried to stay there for a bit, but, you know, when a place gets sold, it's just never the same. No. And so probably other, most, you know, don't worry, but the one right from there to EAS, and EAS had sold two thirds, you know, Phillips had sold two thirds to an investment group, and they wanted to make sure that they're tough and fitness right at the business, didn't stall a part right away. And so I was a great opportunity. I got to go there and write just a couple of them that reviewed the fourth edition. Did they ever, did they even listen to you? Any of your recommendations? Well, you know, you need to do a little bit of a situation, because I do what they were up to. I knew what they wanted to do. They wanted to blow the revenue line up, and basically sell it again. And, you know, we've got a lot of things done in the health, on the health and fitness side, but when we didn't get any resources and compared it to what they were spending on everything else, a management there had big dreams of math, market, like all these companies did, and so they spend 90% on a budget on that, and we have performed them in our area, not really because we're mad at all, but because of what EAS had created, you know, what, what children have created over there was such a, you know, a brand. I guess loyalty, if it took a long time for that thing to die, but, you know, the power of the B certainly fit all they could to wreck the brand. And they could just, I call it, it's chip and chat or a few of the clean cheese brand, you know, they could fly it all down. During this period of time, had you been installing contact with Doug? Yeah, I wasn't contact with Scott, and that's when I left EAS. I took a position at full lab, and I started talking with Scott about doing something, and then Scott got sick. And so we had planned on doing some things at, probably in 2000, she was something like that, and it just didn't, you know, Scott went on and do up until research on different proteins, and I was consulting with another good, in the migraine humbuckal, you know, Ryan's attack. Of course. And so we were working with a, like, the mid-sized friends to help them in new tracks, and the biochast and FAA, and things like that. So, and other those are, kind of, and also something. And at what point, because I know I've been breaking Scott's balls for years, to start his own brand up again, and then he kind of got involved with that other company, and then kind of got screwed over. Well, what, how did you finally convince him to do his own thing? Because he always told me, oh, I don't want to get involved with this again. I hate to hate the business aspect of it. I like to research. How did you actually convince him to, to start over again, so to speak with my autropics? Uh, well, you know, and you're right, you know, Scott, the first month Scott has a lot of projects going to work, and his main interest is the science. And a lot of times, you know, the market or the marketing is he gets it, but it's, he doesn't notice it right away. And so, we have been talking about doing different projects, somewhere in the medical area, somewhere just research, and then we had thought about doing something with the creative brand called Myotropics, but no products were in it. And so then it was last Olympia, last September, I think I already told you this, I was walking around the show and I was like, okay, it's here. It's here, it's here. That's a market that we understand, meaning that's what I've done, and Scott's the perfect guy to deliver products for these guys because they want to be in lead. And they, and so it's a quick look Scott that this is a place to do it, and these athletes are sharing this enough to make the product. And I think that's operational enough to motivate other people to go, hey man, this is pretty cool. And Scott's always looking at like grow the market for weight training and people who are going to watch the nutrition. And I think this looked like a great opening for M2, not only self-taught people that are serious, but maybe get away from the cheaper hardcore bodybuilding, but you know, can start looking a little funny. And everything is, I think Scott gets it. He also knows if you market to the people who want to get lean and put muscle on. The bodybuilders will invariably use your products anyway. So you kind of get both, you get two birds and one stone, so to speak. Yeah, that's actually the bottom line is, and going back to all the different companies and the consulting with big grand small brands. The big lesson is that you can only be as good as you're going to be good at what you're focused on. And so the market for the supplements are really actually trained. There's this, in my view, there's no such thing as like math markets and come on. Those people don't work out hard enough to even care in and out maybe at best. And so you really have to focus on the people who are going to do the work. And from there, you can get out of the people. You know, you're not up to train what's the size and want to be bigger and bodybuilding. To the to the end to the great and to get other people going, you know, I never thought of a way training and maybe taking a nutritional product like a meal replacement or something. But wow, I like the look what that. And so it's really kind of the perfect thing. I agree with you 100% I think that, you know, probably more people out there would rather look like a men's physique competitor than a bodybuilder. A lot of people don't have the genetic potential to look like a necessarily like a professional bodybuild. So the men's physique is a more attainable look. And I think that it's a good division that they brought into the sport because I think it's going to attract a lot more people that otherwise might have not gotten involved with the whole bodybuilding industry. So and really the market is on tap. No one has really been the champion. So to speak in quotes, of course, the champion of the men's physique world. I think the fact that Scott Connelly yourself and my tropics is going to get involved. And you know, you guys going to be giving me some contracts as the year goes on and giving a lot of opportunities. But to showcase these guys, it's a phenomenal thing. And you know, I think to the brain storm that you and I did as far as launching this radio show, physique star radio, is also going to be another way on a weekly basis to not only cover the sport of men's physique, but to showcase not just the men's physique competitors. But all people out there, whether they be celebrities or regular Joe Blow, who want to go to the gym to put muscle on and lose body fat. Yeah, I do know that's a hundred percent. I mean, one of the things that I know that Christian asked me about, like what's the difference between the bodybuilding thing and the physique. In some of the people who like all of the physique might be like a water down there's a bodybuilding. They really have like, okay, well, so you've never tried to get an inch on your arms and you've never really really done a diet. You don't get it. Okay, these are the deep guys are going to buck their ass. Okay, there's no question about it. It's not like the softer side of the shirt. It's damn hard. And so, you know, if you go back to the day when guys that maybe couldn't be the big guy, thought they think of Pete like the rain versus Arnold, I think you're going to bring that back. They're not going to have the same face. So these are deep versus, you know, a guy who completes the bodybuilding. But now it's, you know, a guy who thinks he can look like a zane could actually have a face to compete. And that's awesome. And nutrition becomes a much more important component of what these people are doing because the drugs become pretty much not an eye-to-not issue, because it's the aesthetic look that they're looking for. So your nutrition is going to be super important. And I love the fact that Connelly's new products towards that goal, what's this physique to point out product all about? I talked about it with Scott on the Heavy Musculerated Show last week, but I want to get your take on it as far as it relates to just everyday man and the people that are competing. Well, the, the genesis of the product really comes from, you know, single or individual components. And we've got, has the purchasing substrate technology. And basically that's what it has. There's components, the protein component, there's a carbohydrate component, and a go to the main two. Scott's been playing around with different protein and stuff like that, and, and some other things in the carbohydrate domain. And, and those make up this composite product. It's a meal replacement, basically, but it's really much more than that because it's really geared for someone who wants to. And so, it's not like this, I'm going to bulk up, die it down, it's not, it's, it's something that you can take a couple times a day. And, like you said, you know, you're going to have to rely on nutrition more than, you know, maybe so and some kind of chemical with the reout of your hat. And so you've got to be consistent and the, you know, the protein component and the carbohydrate component are specifically. And, uh, men should allow you to basically repartition your body, which is the bottom line for a physical guy, you know, you want more muscle, less body fat. That's the end of the day. And, yeah, I think that this is also a product that can be taken 365 days a year for these guys. It's now like something like you said there would be like bulk up off season, product, and then a diet down product. You can use it probably while you're dieting, animal, bulking, just changing some of the other components of your diet, which is going to be. Uh, very, uh, I guess novel product because you know what it's seen like everyone strayed away from the mirror placement shakes the repartitioning technologies that kind of had, uh, basically, I guess invented in the early 90s. And now, kind of is bringing it back only even better than before. So I'm excited to try it. I'm waiting for my, my prototypes in the mail. Scott promises me you guys are going to send me sounds like a period out. Uh,

You're definitely going to get some products. We had a couple of breaks on manufacturing and stuff. We're actually a little bit ahead of schedule, compared to what we thought would be. Back to your point about using this product, I mean, one of the things that's always struck me about how you're building in general, which I come from Las Vegas and I would go back to town and I'd shoot you guys and I know you don't get. They're always going to die for their next show. You usually never happen and no offense to any of them, but it becomes difficult. My view is they never get a grip on the nutrition part. They're always going, no, okay, I don't have to be tied on my diet right now. I can be tied on it at another time. It's really consistency and that's why I like this thing because you need to look good, you know, 350 out of 365 days out of the year. You can't just fly, okay, I'm going to look good twice this year or once this year. And you really have to watch what you're doing when it comes to nutrition. You won't get any work then. A lot of these guys are models and they do commercial stuff and advertising and ads and fitness modeling and yeah, you're right. You got to stay lean. Good try. Talk to me a little bit about physique star radio. We got this starting up this week. Actually, probably a little later in the week, we'll have the first launch of the first show, which will include yourself as the co-hosts with our men's physique, editor-in-chief, iron, lower and Scott Colleen, I will be doing a muscle university fitness or nutrition or whatever we want to talk about for the week segment. What is your segment for your portion of the show going to be about? There's a segment that I'm going to do with the iron that's going to be about training, nutrition, but on a practical level, not the super science level, it's the lifestyle. And then we're going to bring in celebrities and or physique stars or up-and-comers. It can tell the audience how they're doing it. At the end of the day, for me, the life around you're training in nutrition, they get to the wet. How do you manage that? People need to know how to do it. The other thing is when they learn from people who overcame, maybe thinking they're genetics, where they're that great, or somebody said, why you're doing this, that's motivational for a lot of people. A lot of what we're going to be talking about is real life situations, real life people, how they're doing it. We may have them off the wall training methods or other things, but at the end of the day, it's going to be for the physique and through the issues. So if you really want to come further for the week, this is a place where you know, you can get involved because of any taken listener questions. And we're going to have a lot of, you've mentioned earlier, my autrophics itself, we're going to be looking for a whole crew of athletes because we want to get behind this whole movement. And the business has been good to Scott and I. And so we want to make this thing bigger and bigger and bigger. And you'll be a tremendous resource for men's physique. A lot of people, though, there is no place to find out information. I mean, aside from our men's physique.com, which is part of our our ex muscle.com website, on a daily weekly basis, it's nice to be able to have a radio show that you can listen to and find out what the newest trends are as the sporty vows because it is evolving. And it's evolving in a very rapid rate because it just started out and that always happens in the beginning. You know, I know they changed already. They changed from board shorts to tighter shorts, only black colors this year. Who knows the next year, there might be some poses involved. We don't know. There might be other divisions. I know they're launching a master's division this year. So men's physique is growing by leaps and bounds and people will be able to tune in, whether it be Wednesday, 9th or Thursday night, we haven't decided yet for all the updates on men's physique on the men's physique world, not only relating to competition, but also as far as nutrition. And as you said, lifestyle, which is probably, I think the most appealing part of the men's physique movement, it's the lifestyle, it's the lifestyle of these guys live. Right. And then the other thing too, like you mentioned, is, you know, these eyes, they have, you know, let's say a day job. And they want to break into, you know, doing commercials, doing print modeling, doing other stuff. And so there's going to be a lot of talk about that. I'm going to have guys who have been successful doing it. And you know, how to kind of do that. And even if you're not super successful, your whole, your self-esteem and everything all goes up. I mean, that's the other thing about this, the big thing and I used to argue, you talk with a lot of people, it's like, oh, why wouldn't you want to take care of your body? Well, what would be wrong with that? Okay? I mean, it can only make your life better. Unless you just make it, you know, be only thing you do. You can only make your life better. People ask me, they're like, oh, you said such good shape all the time. Why? I said, you don't keep it anymore. So, well, because I want to feel good. I want to be in a good health. I want to look good, because how can I give advice about, look good? It's kind of hypocritical, don't you think? Oh, yeah. You know, shit. It's a thing I just say, if you were a bodybuilder and you don't bodybuild now, you never were. That's right. I'm 100%. You're just right. I mean, you were just maybe it was a fleeting thing. You maybe you got involved in chicken pizza. It's more of a drug person's learning how to train correctly and learn how to eat, right? Yeah. It might have been legal trips, too. Right. So, I do want to mention that we have, and we'll talk about it. I think, Ian and I were going to talk about the Psevecastle Guide, which is a kind of an e-book. I put together, which was one of the reasons why one of the things I brought this column, I said, you know, it's kind of good to make the move here. And so I think there'll be free downloads for anybody to get that. Fantastic. I read it. I love it. Great. Thank you. Thank you. These men's busy guys, you know, love it. You given it away for free? We're given away for free. Wow. Okay. How did people get it? I'm telling you. We're listening. You got to love this thing. How did people download this thing? It just goes through, we'll have a link on your side. Okay. The Vick-askleek.com. Okay. Great. I don't think so. I think that's the people going to really like it, the manual, because it really is a how-to book on how to be a men's busy competitor or live that lifestyle. At least. I think that's what a lot of guys are after. And I think that I am lower, your co-host, and you should have some kind of a men's busy uposed down at some point during the, maybe the Olympia or something like that. And we can see who lives the lifestyle, the best, you know, over the next eight months, nine months. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Did you say they have a master's, what's the age? That's right. Well, I guess they're probably an age category. It's probably by next year they'll have 40, you know, over 50, and over 60, and over who knows. Yeah. How old are you these days? How do you have you 50? I'm 50. Oh, you did. Yeah. I did. Congratulations. Oh. No, I'm lucky. So, yeah, again, you know, getting involved in this as a really young guy and you did the same. Wow, what a stupid look. I couldn't really imagine finding this stuff in my 40s or something. Really a lot, much of a call. Definitely. Definitely. That's the other thing about this. You're going to get a lot of young guys that are going to go out of that, something I want to get. You're right. The body building in is she looks like it's gotten older and men's physique seems to be bringing in the younger guys. And I think that is a good thing. Very good point, you make. Yeah, I mean, that might just my daughters, you know, she's a nice girl. And, you know, these guys, you know, that's what they want to look like. You better watch your daughter. These guys are going to all be after your daughter. Yeah. She can handle it, so I'll be. Yeah, that's me. Yeah. So this is going to be a lot of fun. And we, you know, from Scott and I, we really want to thank you, Jay, for supporting this. And I know when I first talked to you, you were already on the same page. You already had the men's physique.com. And we're kind of this quick. And, you know, this is it here. But to sit, you know, we already know it here. It's, you call up, fight for this. This is going to be great for bodybuilding. It's going to be great because a lot of nutrition companies, not just my trophics. Because I think a lot of the companies get, you know, they get computers with who they're marketed. They want us, they want us, they want us, they want us, they all, the cycle of problems. You know, more people use supplements when they're care about their physique than anything. You know what I mean? That's all the big brands have been built on that. Because, let's face it, it's hard work. And if you're working hard, you're willing to pay for products that will help you get the better or easier. Yeah, you're right, 100%. And the radio show is called physique star radio. Look for later this week, because hosted by Vince Andrewt and I am lower. And it also featured muscle universities segment with a doctor Scott Colleen myself. Vince, I know you got a lot of work to do with this new website. And then with the new company, best to lock in, I'm really excited to be working with you now officially in some capacity. Now, me too, thank you, appreciate it. Alright, Vince Andrewt, the company's Myotropics Catch em later in the week is Zeke Star Red. The first single radio is a presentation of RXMuscle.com, The Truth in Bodybuilding. To the next week, get the same time. For another round with Dave Full of Bo only on heavy muscle, really.

Heavy muscle, radio. All right, our next guest is the strength and conditioning coach to many world class athletes out there. He's probably best known to the bodybuilding community when he wrote a column in muscle media 2000, Bill Phillips book back in the 90s. I tell him I was introduced to him and it's my pleasure actually to have him here today to talk a little bit more about what he's got going on lately. Welcome Charles Balkwin. Thanks, it was great getting you on the show. You know, I think a lot of people have been following your career for the last, I guess since 1993 when you first started writing and actually I think that first interview was launched in muscle media 2000. Correct. I mean, I've been doing this training for coaching since 1979, but I guess I'm an exposure to the bodybuilding world came from 2003. Now you're Canadian originally. Any more actually, I'm in the American position. Oh, you completely gave up the candidate. Yes. Yeah. For various reasons, but I'll be here in American in March to life. They won't be well that meeting candidate, so I can really think of it. What, how did you get introduced to the whole sports and conditioning? You know, I had Joe Franco on the show. Joe the Franco on the show a couple weeks ago and he was telling me that when he was five years old, he wanted to be a strengthening conditioning coach. How is your introduction to the whole genre? Actually, from skipping church, I was going to go to French training and he got to go to church and then I went to first lead, fond of it. So when I was 14, I started to skip church and I went to the University Library, which was next door. I started to read stuff on the street. I started to read stuff on the street. I actually had a speaking list and raised first knee and second knee and second knee, and second knee and second knee. I realized all the stuff which an English, it prompted me to learn English really fast. And then I realized the best stuff was in German, and then I learned German. And we're not like that then. Do you taught yourself two languages? Do you taught yourself two languages? Do you taught yourself two languages? Yeah, I learned Japanese, or we just... You're a good, I have to press any university. Really? I can. You know, I gotta just ask you some, I know it's a topic. For some reason, I have a mental block against the languages. And then there's other people out there like yourself, you can pick up a new language in two weeks. How do you do it? Well, my father spoke my language, he was my better speech and I thought he could be a genetic factor. But also, I think it's just interest. And the thing is that for myself, it's helped me learn more stuff, and it's also got me a lot of contracts because it could actually speak the language. So, and let's see what I want to do. I want to do it because in 1998, it was in Japan, and then we were told ahead of time that Japanese volunteers would speak very well in English. So, I thought myself to Japanese, I just bought computer software and stuff myself. And in Norway, every spoken English, but there's just to be polite to them. It's a big up stuff, you know? But it's... I think it actually wasn't just wrong. I was sad it. When I was a kid, I think that's the easiest way to learn language really. So, it's like five years of Spanish, I still can't speak the word of it. And I did well in the class. That's the amazing thing. I just have no conversational skills. Say something in Japanese, because I don't believe you. What does you are? I don't believe you. You've got no strange thoughts. That's unbelievable. Unbelievable. So, you were reading all these books in different languages and continue. And after that, I would take, you know, like, very good review. As all these books on the anatomy and strange training. So, I would take a look at those books and learn how to instruct people out in the exercise. Because I mean, most language courses, I would like to go through customs or to order me. I don't want to be out of full squad, or bring the elbows down when you've been in bed. So, you know, that's a specific language. You're pretty good. I give you books for that, you know. And then, you're missing all these emerging. You know, I would go up a well with Norway. For example, we have to go over here to the bottom of the circuit. So, I got plenty of French to practice. But you can't, you're going to make a mistake. And people will look at our community. And that's how you prove. But if you're shy, you'll never learn from a foreign language, just for sure. Now, you know, the interesting thing is that I find that, you know, most people get into the strengths, words, because they want to look better themselves. You seem, at least you seem to reveal to me that they, you always had the desire to teach it to other people. Yeah, I mean, I did this already to produce. I mean, I did it myself. But, you know, in the 1978, before on the strength course association in the US, I was on the early adapters. So, can I join them up and then did their certification. But the thing is that when you have success with athletes, you don't want to know if you do it. And then, by 2005, I started my own certification program, because you don't want to know, I did it. I mean, people used to come from all over the world. We get my facility and see me coach. And then I'll take up things to me, maybe teach it more. So, then I made certification manuals. And now we have students in 16 countries. Wow, really. It's that big. Yeah, actually, we teach typically in about eight countries a year. And then the average number of students in different countries is 14, 13 per class. So, I'm sure you have a lot of sweet teaching Austria that people from easy to even think of for Hong Kong. You know, all the South Africa and New Zealand, they'll come around. So, they all know you. Was that amazing? Yeah, but the thing is that I feel my repeat can be 40 years at that. You did. Yeah, so, you know, I was not on the 40, probably because it's too much on media. And then, well, I want to bring that up because, you know, back in the early 1990s, there was no internet like you said, or I was fledging, no one was really on it. And I used to sit by my mailbox once a month and wait for that muscle media 2000 magazine to show up because that was Bill Phillips magazine. And back then he was, you know, very cutting edge. He talked about topics and subjects that no one else addressed. He got, he, I remember his first interview with you because you had been training a lot of world class sprinters and athletes. Everyone was fascinated and then he gave you a column. How did you meet Bill Phillips? Actually, somebody there profiled on me and then, I'm feeling a lot of people are rolling in and say, you know, you think it's because I got a column. So then he, he called me up and offered me a column, posted it to you article. And he asked me to write a book, which I did. The Paul Conprence Balls and then he sold it and we saw 50,000 copies in the record time. Wow. And he actually sold an Italian edition of it. And you know, so it grew really fast. I was amazed. Off our reaching it was because it was like I said pre-interend. I think that he did a great job at attracting the really doctors for early adopters. And then that prompted, you know, I'd be surprised that it would be in the airport. And it would be a little bit of a record as you were, or walk it up the street. It's a little pixel out of you. It's the right thing. I've been like, wow, you know, it's, you were just a pioneer in terms of format. And then, unfortunately, you just said to go rain stream. And the losses, the people we, you know, took them to the promise we would say. Hey, Kelly, kill the magazines. Correct. I mean, I think if you had kept hardcore, you would have reached more hardcore people. You know, but trying to do percate man's health or men's fitness. So it's like if you're in a poor market and decide to go to the GM market, well, GM is with their head and you, you know, to go to West. So if you're in a poor market, stay in a poor market. Just try to get more people to buy a board since they've announced. And that was a great experience for himself, yeah. So I'm in, but it was kind of what brought me more to general public. And then I was always in my youth. A few of my family came fair. She wrote the flower work race. What's the only thing to start you that started to read me when it's working your soul. So, yeah. That's like, it gives up my age. I was a little older. I was, I met him in 22 when I started reading. Yeah. Now, what was interesting is that you actually introduced, or at least I was introduced to the world of ART active release techniques through that magazine. And you must have been one of the very first few people who were certified in that. Correct. I was the first non-tarpreter doctor to be certified. And then I used to teach it. I mean, for me, you know, it don't really treat people, basically. I used ART as a weight optimist performance. So either things strengthen their length and tissues. And now, a day is a lot of the students that come from Europe. Or actually, my certified coaches, because the police gave them one ART. They said they could certified. Did you, well, you were little intimidated when you took it because you probably, because you weren't. You were the only guy who wasn't a guy up right there or a doctor. I don't know. And my ad could training in university and then that means so. It wasn't really, I show you. You know, being a strength, which you actually know, muscles work in. Correct. With the action, so I actually added an advantage over the car practice, because a lot of car practice may know their structural enemy, but functionally, they're not that great, you know. So, so I actually, I probably was pretty good. When Dr. Lehi first introduced you to it and you started to you took the course and learned how to do it. Was it exciting in the sense that you felt that you had a modality, maybe that not many people out there were was doing at the time? Oh, yeah. I mean, to me, it was a great advantage in that profession. Because, like, I could come to the gym and let's say you can do a jump. And you were saying six inches to put this child over a bar, and that would release the decisions between the care major and the lab. And I got six inches more range after two minutes of working on the teaching. I was not, but the method is genius, mummy. Right, but what I'm saying is, you know, when you, when an athlete is frustrated and can't do something and then someone can almost wave a magic wand and make them do it, it is magic to them. Yeah, it is big thing that found with the RT is that it cuts down time to rehab, but about 2.5 times. At least, I think. So, for example, if a rehab is going to actually take 10 weeks with a skill hierarchy guy, it will reduce it a month. So, you know, the significant. Do you still practice that on your people you work with? Oh, yeah, very much. Probably on a daily basis. And then, unfortunately, I work with Mark for four years. So, it's probably too, a lot of the moves that he did in the showing classes, because, if like Mark's show, I was, you know, he has to be sick most, but usually the master knows more moves that. Because of time, the situation does not show, so, for example, I got to win 16 moves for the elbows that probably don't know, so, or very few people know. So, that was good.

How did your lady come up with all this stuff to eat just invented on his own? Well what happened is that the invented was on knowing that he invented this. So basically your strength is something you work but is biggest addition to the concept is that if the word active so you made the tissue while applying attention while before people over stationary. But the only discovery that he stumbled upon something when people would go on this team for a couple of tunnel syndrome and everybody in color springs 100% resolution. Meanwhile the surgery was causing more problems than the actual problem. And then what happens is that orthopedic surgery instead of say well maybe he started teaching specific. So you want to send you go met with a very famous orthopedic surgeon and then they develop the protocols and actually did studies. And it's sure that it worked for a couple of tunnel and it applied it to lower back pain to elbow pain to shoulder pain. You get that type of guy that keeps perfecting it. You probably already invented it at the move since we started to interview you. You just have to get it to always try for a costume improvement. You probably want to be good. Geniuses out there and healing art. Wow and that's coming from you that's a huge statement. And the fact that he doesn't rest on his laurels he's still changing it and evolving the technique is probably a good thing as well. Yeah he costs the trust him. He's improving. You know which gives him a big advantage. And then you keep coming out with your courses or your ways to teach it at the end of the day. Of all the self-tissued techniques, which is the crap magas of self-tissued work. In other words, if compared to martial arts it's going to give me the most results of the least amount of effort. I love it. I like the drum Castro who was in shock to him. He does it on me all the time. Probably more so when I was competing actively. Every time I have a pain I'm like why don't I just go to the Castro and have work on me. And invariably I'm so happy because I forget sometimes. You forget it's such a magical technique really. Talk to me a little bit about some of the athletes you've worked with because you have some world-class ones that you've worked with. Who is your favorites and who are the ones that achieved the greatest results from you? Probably Adam Nelson needs the most mad old shot putter in the history of the world. So he's been a world champion and an Olympic medalist of all times. One of the strongest guys ever coached and also yes he was a world champion but it's also very short for a shot putter. And there is such a thing as barmichenic load barrage. I mean in most world champions or at least six seconds. And Adam's only six one. So to be a man taller means a lot. I mean because he was on the most powerful guys. Dwight Phillips who is an Olympic champion in World Champion in long jumps and there are very interesting guys. As far as teams, I really like to work your own national skating. I mean those guys are very easy to get very strong. You work with the Olympic speed team? Yeah and can, yes and then the boss was my medal winners we went to sports. And then in 98, I moved to the US and I started to work with the pros and then working with hockey a lot. And that's that. You know, pro athletes standing around. So then just try to be baseball players and football players and basketball players all the pros. And a good one of the pieces like that. And then there's always a worse amount because back then again, you know, the anti net loose. And the anti-existent and the athletes were not nerdy and that was the one here. And the news generation, the L.U.S. are iPhone. Like there is, but I'm talking about the guys that I coach in 98, the anti net. Not to get any mailers kind of odds. They're on from an athlete they want their kind of, I mean, I'm very most of the pro athletes that I work with are late nineties. They're why do you have to operate with the email but not the same. So now the business change a lot. But those are the guys that enjoy working the most. You work with Donovan Valley, too, right? I work with his carer practice and then, but I can't, I can't. I work more with the girls, they would, two the girls would want in Sydney. And then I worked with my guy that wanted to go in the relay Sydney. I worked with a lot of speedkills, I probably just bought where I've had the most success. Success. Success is speed skating. Interesting, and is that because these guys really, you know, need, no coaching really helps them to achieve greater levels of success? Yeah, I mean, strengthening was, for example, at the World Championships in the night before the graduating 70 medals just for Canada won't. So, you know, that's a lot of medals for the World Championships. And I worked with the American, they worked with, I went back and forth to Canada, US for years. But every time I went, I went, I was really good at the country, I went back to Australia. After a while, my market value was very well established at speed skating. And now, a formal Boston speed skating is contractive with the Russians. So, we're here for the Russians now. The United States has been getting hold of you before we lose it to another country. Yeah, I mean, for the Russians, it's a Russian system. It's a real, actually, you'll give up the US citizenship. What's the most gratifying for you? What do you like to work with more kind of athletes? I think probably the guys who set low records is most gratifying because if you're at a pro athlete, okay, they do better. You can increase your salary, you can increase your work of value, that's nice. But when somebody sets a low record and that person that they, that's something that no other human's ever done. And that produced low record holders in ten different sports. Do you feel like a father watching it like a TV or in person, whatever, do you feel like that? Holy shit, I feel like I'm up there with these guys. Yeah, I'm very proud of when they do well. But my brain is wired to that prejudice that the record to. Okay, I'll can improve, you know. Sit on my rules too long, because it's, you only get a hugy of this result. Right. So, if you don't produce constantly, then you're snapping, actually. I think in my field, I need to some guys that pretty simply, I can't even afford to still live on that. But obviously, don't, uh, I have the clients. Now, you know, you're only as good as your last client. Right. You're terrific. You're having not burnt out on it yet, is what you said? No, no, no. But you know what's a nice thing, now is a nice student. In my search here, she's a program. We only get level five if they produce a little bit better. So now, I'm happy you're a tissue, but she didn't produce a little bit more. So you actually have this, try strength and conditioning course that you teach. You have five levels to it? Yeah, and level one is basically, you record to the regional level. Level three is national level four is international, but not top notch yet to. Killing certification is just a matching in the world that ask you to produce results by level three. So in other words, if you don't put people on national team, you don't get through it for your levels. So you can't come and take the next level until you get a certain athlete to achieve a certain level of success. Correct. So level five, you need to have an Olympic medalist. But what I find is that the guys who reach level five don't back down in an Olympic tent to produce more and more. So, um, we should have all got a guy named level five. Which you should do enough. Uh, we're now producing in baseball and tracking field and also to the sports. So, and then, uh, only have some like 18 level five now, but if you look at the math, you know, that's up with 18 other medals produced by my training philosophy. So that's good. And then it keeps everybody because, you know, if you're not accountable, I mean, to get a certification and possibly I'm so very strict at any time to kind of get 92%. Wow, that's hard. Yeah. That's just a pass. That's the passing mark. So we're very strict and then the practice will be very strict. And they keep the keys it's like, um, if I refuse somebody who's level five then, I'm not sure you can help you out. Sure. You don't want to just pass people because then it shows that your certification might not be quite as good as you're leading people to believe it is. Correct. And then, for example, you know, uh, a kid is level four now and we should re-chublify some Germany. But, you know, I've got to produce a world champion medals at the University Games in the beginning with a country of Hungary, which is not a great country for speed getting you know, and they actually beat Canada, which is a strong, uh, skating country. So the Canadian is actually also the much of, it's everyone's stealing everyone. Yeah, so, you know, it's bad, I would like to see you or, for example, any, uh, UFC recently, as two students who each had their own guy, keeping any anti-service. So, you know, for the world title, so that's nice to see. Yeah, that's very nice. That, is there any students you've had that you're like, my God, this guy is so good. He, he might be better than me even, you know. Well, in, in Japan, the philosophy is, you're not a good teacher unless you have somebody better than you if a student. I got you. So I'm trying to, the bill, the guy that's going to beat me and there's, this is the best four-five guys lined up, uh, first title. How's that, Betha? Not yet, it's, I think, it, it means, in, to be fair to them, I started sorely, you know, that had a big event, and then 50 and those guys under, like 20, 70, so they got a bit, way to go home. But, I, during each of us, I had a them, but you got to realize that the strength was, uh, in Minnesota, they were, in World Cup. So, they were the biggest protestants in the world coming up. So six-pen, you know, bronze team, last but second, that's how you do it. and houses. So actually the NCAA pays more than the pros. Really? Yeah. The only place where I know where someone makes more is in your pin soccer where there's two guys who make $2 million euros each a year. 20 years ago that was unfounded, but we don't know when it made that much money. But it goes to show that teams are recognizing well, you just a number of mandates. I mean, a good strength coach can reduce numbers of man days lost by 40 percent. So if you get a $1 million per roll and just be a simple math, you'll see $1 a year on man days and you reduce a 40 percent of that, then you save the team to $2.4 million. So the bank is trying to get this and go to his cheap actually to hire him. Even if you plan half a million. So in soccer to pay $2 million is worth it because the salary is just so much higher that you know, and all percentages it pays well. Sure. No, it makes sense. Now you have two clinics you run right? One in Colorado springs and one in Rhode Island. Actually, the one in Rhode Island is our beach center. We have plans to wear one in Chicago. And then we roping up one in Dublin next few months. So well. And then the next one at the edge is Florida.

So you're all over the place now? What I'm saying at growing the model is there and we have good sponsors, like illegal and the plant is in Washington. So that else is not a lot. But the... it's going very fast. I mean, number of full-time instructors we have is increasing dramatically. And then... The people that you certify these instructors? Pardon me? You've certified all these instructors who run the programs? Well, all of them at least level four on their own. I got my top two instructors. One of them is Olympic record holder. And the one was National Team record holder in Hammerstone. So we have any multiple national team. So those guys, you know, a lot of respect when they teach classes because they've also produced on their own. Olympic medalists. When do you operate out of mostly, though? Person. That wrote down. Okay, so you're your mostly in Rotound. And do you live there predominantly? Uh, have you not been to Colorado and Rhode Island? No, are you in Colorado because of the... No, because it's my daughter's missing. She's put on a set. It sounded like you might have been a good story with now. Yeah, it's actually the Olympic training center. I mean, I mean, sponsors of the World Different National Team today. But they don't have not directly associated with them. Um, it's the... Justice only. You know, I got to be hours in a day at the right time. No, I didn't. How'd you wind up in Rhode Island in World Places? Uh, the thing is it's the... My business partner is from there. And then we needed a place on a beach post. So that, um, because of time's on. If you were in the terrors on the California Road Miss out a lot, on a European business, you know, for fault. So, uh, because 70% of our clientele is actually European. Wow, that's huge. Yeah. And of course, I'm sure that's a different... So if you used to first be, if we, when we were in Arizona, we missed out a lot of opportunities. You know, people like the email, some people are still with preferred Dr. E. Menvois. So we need to feel down that Easter. As ten or ten is all of that. We could have been in Florida, but, uh, the thing that's nice with Rhode Island is that we're in between New York and Boston. So, uh, it doesn't prevent people from flying in and we just had an I-per-speed boot camp in where people from Italy Australia and all of her place. So it's, uh, it's good. Do you have a gym down into Dominican Republic? No, that's the place where I would love to open very soon. No. We have a lot of students there that serve very successful, but it's a place where I wouldn't mind opening up. I thought I heard a roomy you're going to open one up, because Milo Sarsha is down there now and he's training people down there. Yeah, it's a place that I've been very interested in looking at. Because it's a, uh, but it would be a different, uh, a different concept that where we do our, uh, medical doctors and do a lot of anti-aging and the hospital medicine stuff at the same time. Right. Basically they're expanding, uh, the functional medicine. So I just once opened up in 2013, you facility. I said, when I have a camp on the pharmacy inside the building, where did then the, uh, or two, and then because our students would like to, uh, I don't want to touch up so you think, um, for a class, they can get all of the blood we're done and get out of there. And then, uh, if need be, get something, come on, so they're brain or they're thyroid or whatever case. That's all, and also my, uh, obviously the Olympic athletes can use this, but this would be for like anti-aging purposes. Right. Correct. But even with, you know, for brain stuff, that mean as long as it's compatible with why that, uh, we're formalized that the pharmacist can make it. We're, we're compounding some, you see, you know, it's not always drugs. So he could take nutrients, but sometimes you need to, you know, be something that's not safe to guy, uh, tend to break down a still calling, uh, to rapidly, um, then we could give him a vaccine, which is a natural substance. So Chinese mice, which is a, that's still calling their stories inhibitor. Uh, but, you know, people don't want to take these different pills, but I can get a compounding pharmacy to make a powder that is quite palatable. And, you know, a teaspoon we can take, you know, for anti-different brain hatred. Yeah, I think the, uh, the, uh, the overall emphasis has been, uh, on the muscle structure. Um, but you need to bring through the big, uh, muscle spires. Well, you have the nerve, people don't realize the nervous system is what tells the muscles what to do and when the muscles fatigue is really the nervous system that's fatigue, and what you're saying. Correct, but also if you look at things like, uh, the disorders and, for example, we have a product coming out, which is a compounded product, which is, a typical GA bus, it does get, uh, absorbed through this skin, because GA by an stomach, you know, neutralized, and we can bind it with cleaning, and we apply it on the earth, and turn it to the earth, or the earthy, and it will fall asleep in a minute. Real, it's almost like value, it does. Yeah, exactly. And it's, but without, you know, uh, the size of that, it's an eight dependent. So, and then we have compounded, curcumin creams and, um, B12 and B3 and, and a lot of the guys that I used to coach, our fathers or mothers now, and their kids of ADD, or whatever. So, we can, we can, with the doctor and the compounded customers can get nutrients, because kids don't like to soil tablets. No, we can make topicals out of the way to very, uh, effectively. What do you think about our autism? Do you have any ideas about that? The problem is, autism is, uh, caused by many things, for example, the mothers, cell phone use, the more the mothers use cell phone, that worse it is. Do you? When I was a kid, there was no autistic children, it was very rare. I'm seeing people have blamed it on, um, vaccination. Vaccination. But a lot of kids who get vaccinated with the same things and nothing happens. Yeah, we have vaccinated as kids, we didn't get autism. Yeah, and then the thing is, would they be, they've identified so far, 76 risk factors, link autism? One of them, for example, is a Wi-Fi. So, if you sleep at the house of the Wi-Fi is on, that's a social relief and that's an eight factor. It's not, so it's not because you're never Wi-Fi in your arms, that's right. It will be autistic, but you multiply that by cell phone use, put it in in tolerance, period tolerance, soil intolerance, above a little bit of a way to predict what the risk chart, but the top five are cell phone Wi-Fi, dairy, gluten, and soil intolerance. One of them, so it's a thing where two times two equals 16, you know, so they count on each other because autism was rarely rare. When I was a kid, sitting with EDD, you know, you wanna have, and, you know, they feel so free to hold even a design that TV shows like SpongeBob watching one episode of SpongeBob reduces attention span and is one episode. It reduces in me, I can't even put the thing on. It's in ten more than you know, right? Yeah, but the point is that, you know, this, one of the biggest mistakes with me is the society is to, what I call a socialist street syndrome. If people have said, kids are short of attention span, therefore we should teach them more to shorter attention span, so it's a mystery, whatever short clips. But kids have a shorter attention span, but you know, the adult is trained in the increased attention span, not for a nerd, nursery, so, so you know, we're free with EDD, with the television programming. Correct, but they may be increasing the increase of EDD in American society with the introduction of social histories. Wow, and the MTV generation, I blame it on the TV show, watch a scene count the fortest scene that's changed and go to camera. Correct. So even, so even all TV shows show from a different angle of over four seconds. So what happens with that is that you, you get the training yourself to get bored with things that don't change. You're right. But if you go to medical school, be better incarcerated for a long time. One hundred percent, you're yes, you're hundred percent right. I never even thought of that, so you're saying that we're being brainwashed into EDD almost. Correct, correct. And then you know, but I think you're Brady, and is under, like, fortunately currently in Lake Finland and can, or frankly, actually can, is very strong warning stuff, of self-belnut youths. Really? No, why, how did mother being exposed to the radiation, and have something to do with the kid developing autism in your mind? Well, they really can just damage this nervous system. I mean, for example, Finland, like goal of landline to a few years ago, and now Finland has a world record for brain tumors. Wow, really, didn't you? Yeah, Finland, they, they know one of the reasons why we think it's due to self-belnut is that all the brain tumors occur on the dominant side of the person. So all the left brain tumors are in less than that, people with all the right that people have brain tumors on the right side, so we're the oldest cell phone. And Nokia is the fall of the highest amount of radiation in the world. Did not that? So, you know, so the gene government, for example, every six months, really is a report on radiation count of cells. And, for example, a knife-phone, as low radiation, put them all at abs. You load into the greater radiation. Really? And those people have thousands of abs on their iPhone, so they're completely useless, they never use, but they just like collect them. Like, don't tell you the harvest of mushrooms and angola, we give a shit, you know? So, the habit on her iPhone, then, you know, the only one that's cow is going to melt next. And then, they got all these things on the iPhone, while the iPhone now becomes quite higher in radiation, what you said. I've got great radiation, you can quit more, I'm full. I got a delete to them on my abs, that's what I'm doing, this is, I got off the phone, yeah. Yeah, yeah, so the ones you don't you, you know, don't put delete in them out to this, I can, you know, you show, we've reached every example, you know, they're very good research out of Canada, she showed that X is finding it doing cardio on electronic equipment, like, in a little bit like trying to bite some treadmill. Yeah, precipitates insulin resistance by 46% What, really? Yeah, so my website, a cool girl, they were the research on it, but so basically, shot people go to school, gym, they hop on the treadmill, and it's already electronic bite. And then the year later, it's battery, well obviously, it's a bite, maybe it's a battery. Oh my god, I mean, yeah, so, you know, that's a type of stuff we provide our students, I'm, as years have evolved, and more and more conscious, you know, of these things and try to get us into the example, video games, you know, just play videos with their play station and their crotch, well that's, you know, as well, put your testicles in the microwave. So, those are the radiation, and it's also linked. The more I kids on the internet, it's the game, the lower is testosterone. Really, yeah, so. Yeah, so, you can find that stuff easily on the format, so radiation is, I mean, the average testosterone count as the increased one percentage point, three years in spiking 50. Wow, it's a little bit of, the horizontal squat to p, I mean, it's, you know, it's a rendition, and for example, in England, the average CHE sulfate is, uh, their range is 1.4 to 1.6, right, right, but Dr. Rendes because in Canada, normal range is 3 to 10, and 3 considered test-rated. But in K, I mean, the 3 is like, need therapy, and then, you know, 10 is healthy, so

Norms are always still this much. Norms basically reflect on resistance. But if you don't mean anything, for example, one in glucose is, because they're not with and range is 70 to 99. Well, the research is very clear for every point you are at books 70. Your risk of cardiovascular disease goes up to five percent. So you can be 99, which is within range, which you're under the 45 percent period of risk of cardiovascular incidence. Yeah, you're calculating a lot of this glucose, yeah. You're calculating with proteins. Very interesting. So what would you do in like a certain, I mean, obviously we're in a day and age, we Wi-Fi is not going away. We're exposed, so we have cell phones, we have computer laptops and iPads and all this stuff. What do you do? Well, first of all, it's turning your Wi-Fi when you're not sleeping. When you're sleeping, sorry, you're sleeping. When you're using an orcum house, and you don't get it, turn off the reduced to different. A lot of people use their cell phones as an alarm clock. No, don't do that. You say battery operated keeps alarm clocking by at a well on our phone, five bucks. Yeah. And then, and put, take your cell phone, the battery out of it, and when you sleep, so you get a little bit of radiation, because you're using a lot of times down by all of this, you're very good research paper that showed that if you wear your cell phone on your hip, it decreases your energy, so it's about 31 percent. I don't think I'm wearing my pocket. It's right by my, you know what? A bit like a nothing less than that. Yeah, so, you know, I feel all of these when you search, you know, then you look at shampoo, you send carabines, and whatever. So basically, I'm a bit of a big key, a day that it's to be educated. And then, that's how my website is. Every week, for example, we classically do the thing on olive oil. Look at these analysis of all the olive oils, the industry, sold in US, right? And all the stuff, which you, you basically pond on to, you're leaving it to good product. And we actually give out all the brands and what it helps. So you tested them all? Right. You tested it? Not me, but it's been a lot, but it got access to the report. And we published a two-part article. You know, a lot of people can't read research, but we basically made a video. What did you have to say for them, what did you actually meant? What was the best brand out there, do you remember? Can't remember. You weren't to look at my website, but the theme there was shown also is that depending on where you buy this initiative, it comes in the same spot, you could have the same name on the label. But, you know, the brand and active in California could be working in a ballpark, in different Boston. So it did identify which ones were best. I saw Macadamina, I've given up on olive oil. I'm interested in one. Yep. What if I went to your, let's say I went to your clinic this compound and clinic you're going to make up. And I had a kid who was ADD or I had a kid who was autistic. Would there be suggestions that you can make like chemical-wise, I mean, or supplement wise? Yeah. What would you recommend for like a person with ADD? Well, so ADD, usually the only 3THA is more helpful for that. Also, it's a very good, in a physical that very cheap colineocytal, which has been shown to upregulate or downregulate obesity. It's an adaptogen for all of your transmitters. So for example, if you don't believe it's a little bit too difficult, it brings one up and brings you to one down. Interesting. And that's a kind of good article on my website. And pretty much anocytal has been shown clinically in the scientific literature to affect 16 different types of brain disorders. Things like ink, or back home, are not precious. Speed of nerve conduction. So that helps. I said, there are currently no good ones. Gosh, you've finally done D3. I also had ADD. That's really, and a lot of people are so, we're all deficient than the people don't realize that. Correct. Correct. I mean, it depends which non-use, but what's considered within range in the US, even the iron industry, is that the basis? What do you think the right range should be? ADD to 120. You know, I'm taking five. I was taking 3,000 units a day, vitamin D. And my values came back at 35. And I read in life extension, it should be 50. So I uped it to 5,000 units a day. I'm up to 50. And you're telling me I'm still low. Oh, yeah. We talked to your Mark Houston, this play one best in the fairness, the specialized in cardiovascular disease. And you'll find that ADD, is that ADD blood markers for cardiovascular disease are improved dramatically. And there are points without David, is that if you look in the literature in countries where people can eat us up D3 above ADD, right? There's not a single case, not a single case of autoimmune disorders reported. Wow. See you think, okay. Well, if you go to the Demician Republic, and you ask people, I mean, Lucas cases of you see, you're running around the side of the door, that's probably the cases you've seen. They say I went to them school, but never seen us. So they know they exist, but they don't see in their client basis, not because they're extremely wealthy. And they, you know, 50, so much D3 in their blood. I mean, I tested my students and they DR just for interest and the average worth 123. And they're making their very strong individuals, you know, when you look at them in the gym, but he'll look at research out in the gym university. In women, I'm trained women, if you measure who D3, they're actually correlated to how much defense versus strength they got. Wow, really. See you think that the strength of some of these athletes are being suffering because of the D3 deficiency. Again, guarantee you that I went to optimize some guys D3, the strength levels go up. This glucose management goes up. And you guys will realize David, that every single detoxification gene has the three receptor side-press. So the toxication of foreign environment is D3 dependent. So the research is very clear now. Every single cause of mortality, known to manage affected by D3. How much do you take it back? I take it back. What I do with the research says, I take 50,000 twice a week. Wow, so you don't take it every day. Well, the research is tends to show that the body does better when you take large amounts twice a week than the same amount by 7. Did none of that? No one is, no one's for sure why. But I learned this from a doctor that does a lot of research with brain injuries. It took one of my classes, but he shared that with a class of them. We did, there was about three years ago. So then I got all my students to espoused that principle. And we took the same dose. So let's say if I got was taking 70,000 a week, we did 35,000 twice a week. But if you look at the velocity curve, I'll replenish them in the vitamin D3. It's way faster with the bowl of system. Wow, so you can store the stuff a little bit. So you don't have to take it every day. Correct, correct. But I think what it does is, it's kind of need a bowl of dose to saturate the tissues. Gotcha, so. It's like saying, should I do a set of this quarter of a day or twice a week to 10 to 15 times? I'll take you to a more strength. twice a week you've pushed your bowl to hours. Then you know, right? So you think that most people should start off for the high dose of 50,000 maybe units and twice a week? Well first, they should get a test. But you know, the beginning state of Arizona, which is quite sunny, percent on 99 was only 27. No, it goes outside, that's why. I do not. But the point being you said, for example, the average I-Riff is values for you, but if you work in double-inch, the LIC7 team between 19 and 1932 in the morning you miss summer. So, their exposure to sunlight is beautiful at best. So they get really bad, but what you find, no, it's a... For example, my average students most they're in time, you're finding them in D3. They're bearing improved. And finding D3 is also linked to depression. I've read that, you're right. I will see that we, we must publish on my website, probably one thing, a week on D3, because the, the thing is that it's, the research on it is kind of new. Only in 2007, I would say, that this thanks to community, starts to develop interest in it. You're right. What's the website, by the way, just so that people know. It's ratio of Charles Pollock on dot com. And what do you think about vitamin K? Because I know vitamin K's another one coming out, the least is K2 and K3 versions are, the people saying that that's important to replenish now. It's not just for clotting anymore. It also has innumerable other, you know, contributions to the body. For example, it's been shown through your research your skin resources. So we actually have a visual that contains both the NK and it for that purpose. What's it called? Omega 3D, plus K. Oh, so it's a bit of a waste of time. A lot of that. I mean, I always like to keep feeling capable. You know, how did you get into the whole supplement? You're a strength and conditioning coach. That's probably what, you know, pretty much people wouldn't believe that you were so knowledgeable and supplemented. Had you get involved with that? Well, because we, you know, actually it banked on to an incident in the 88. Yeah, they really got a strong end to dumping control. Darryel, we in Sweden followed. So then we have to find ways to increase biological recovery without even any bank successes. There was more of it than an effort. So I started looking to it. I mean, I've always been into supplements. You know, as a kid, but then talking to guys like morality, press quality and stuff like that. Really kind of in line me. And then when I worked in Monaco, I met a functional medicine practitioner who was the first time I met one. And he just found a mentor to setting the right track to learning about, but I think that it's, I mean, you grow a status as you recover. So she recover fast, you get a grow faster. And it's one hundred percent sure that it's, well, it is, it's a whole, you have to address all things. You can't just look at one thing like it's in a tone, the microcosm, right? It's like an accident. It's like a 40 years old. And it's just a song. Here's what we're going to traffic school girl. Then I have to guess it. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please. But if you can do a strategy, the problem with that is that means to manage conversion of service, testosterone to the pedestrian fraction. Why do you think? The good thing is that an after-all you could take the end of the two of the same job without putting footers stress on the labor. So I think there are eight right keys about it, the bulk tool, but we still have some things that we can't, for example, we can't tell some balance and we want to need it. So all that stuff is important. And we want to be a finished station AC if you post it a world-trust draw. And then, example, there's a study of there that says, hey, if you take Melatonin before you train, you produce more growth for a moment. Yes, but you follow us. We just see that. That's it, sir. Look, there's a shift. You know, so the B, B, and I don't know, if the body don't need some more power set paper and go to go by Melatonin. If I was to come to the department, he'd be a team themselves. So this is the one thing is that when people, you know, Melatonin shows it, well, what about this research? And I read 16 hours a week, a research shows the thread of, I don't know, like what's about it, and I've got a real full-time research thing, but what I find interesting is people will quote one piece of literature. They'll probably have like green tea after studies will show you the Russian induces cancer. But he'll get the studies that his chosen induces cancer, so he'll be planning it, that promise that he'd back himself, not to take Melatonin. Right, it's not to take Melatonin. He needed tea back that best. So, you know, I have to. And then I think the way to be ahead is not to be afraid to invest a money, to find so many more in YouTube. So, for example, with estrogen detuscation that I heard this woman in the North West, and we'll find you to detoxify a compound, there's another woman from Kegarver that I use. And if I want to know about the binding mean, it's a guy in Boston. So, you know, people are too cheap to pay for information to fall by the way, so it's a good investment. I don't know if 50 grand a year, just as getting people to dice it. Well, you have a tremendous array of supplements on CharlesPoliquin.com, and you can check that out. Obviously, you can check it out.

To be muscle, re-o. Our next guest is the promoter of the IFBB Desert muscle classes coming up February 25th one week after the Flex Pro show. It's my pleasure to have back to the show, Strike or Solomon. Thanks, Dave. Appreciate the time you're giving me here right now. We got an important show coming up. You have the very, very first historical show. The first women's physique pro show in the history of the sport will be occurring in Mesa Arizona here in less than two weeks. I'm excited about it. I hear you got a pretty nice lineup too. I look at the lineup for physique. I was very impressed. I love the physique division. They look beautiful and that's the way I think they should look. We'll welcome them here and wouldn't have for anything better than what we already have. I'm excited though because whenever I, you know, this is the first of first. Historically, this will be added to see when it's from historical facts and women's division. I don't really know what to expect. When you don't know what to expect sometimes, it's an element of surprise there. I've seen all these women turn pro. Every women's physique pro pro qual for our last year. I'm excited to see how it's going to turn out. See how they judge this. Who will be the head judge at the show? It's the most like if either John two men or Lee Thompson, one of them, I don't really know yet. I know they're coming both and the both head judges. Either I will do a great job. Yeah, I'm excited like I said in the, the girl who wins will qualify for potentially. We don't know if they're going to have a women's physique Olympia at the end of the year, but I would hope maybe after seeing some of the quality of these girls that they will decide to add that. That would be a nice little set. I would hope so too. And I think I'm kind of expecting it to be a link here. They only make sense to have it there. But we'll see what happens. Yeah, I haven't really made it in an ounce of it yet. But the show is the Desert Muscle Classic. It's going to be taking place at the Mesa Arts Center. And where can people buy tickets for that? We can grow a website, and there's a muscleclacics.com. Click on the info on info. And then they'll take them straight to that page where they can buy single tickets or a group ticket. Because it's a little break for them if they buy like pre-stating a night ticket. That's right. Very smart. So when you go to DesertMuscleclassic.com, don't make the mistake I made. Don't spell Desert, with two essays. It's only that one. Siding this one they're going to do. That's right. I don't want to make it mistake there. So DesertMuscleclassic.com. Now you have the women's beckoning. No, if you have the women's beckoning. You have a women's beckoning. I see a hearing. Women's beckoning. And I was looking at the lineup two weeks ago. And I wasn't really happy. I was really happy. I was really down a lot for beckoning. I would expect maybe five times six times that number that I saw. Maybe it's grown now. But to be king girls, this time where you give me back a little bone and you'll line up in the roster. Mr. Arizona to compete. We'll go a hard job. Put in the shoes together and finding the funding. And athletes, we ask for them to fulfill. You know, whatever you want them to fulfill. To compete for a say. And make it a better show. So I mean, we'll put a piece of shoe on for the athletes. We want to see a lineup. I don't want to see it can. 11 girls or even a nine or we want a good lineup of athletes. So we can keep going. Right. Well, you know, it is the first show of the year. And I think people get gunshive in the first show of the year. Because what they do is they say to themselves. I don't know. I want to see who's going to be there. Which is stupid. Because then when happens, you give up a good qualifying spot for the Olympia possibly. So if you're in the Arnold class, or even if you're not, you're dieting for maybe a show the week after or two weeks after. This is a show you should definitely show up at strike is telling you right now. You have an opportunity. The lineup is not that strong right now to come in here and snag in the Olympia qualification. Get a win. Make a little money. Put your pocket. Some spending cashier. So it's not too late to sign up. And I guess what they have to contact the NPCFB office. Is that what it is? Yeah, they do. And then the problem is, would be late for your something. They can send me an email. I'll talk to Jim Manning about it. It's not even a email. Let me know who's coming. Who wants to come. And I'll probably make an exception for some reason. You know that we just don't have him here and help him out. So you'd like to have this. Probably the money that they could capture. And I mean it's a qualification. And you've seen him pass a game. And the Phoenix pro. Nobody knows who's going to win. No. I'm going to tell you guys what's going to happen is it's going to be a girl sitting in home. It's not going to come. Actually, it's going to be watching the old coverage on our ex muscle. She's going to look at the pictures and she's going to say, I should have done this show. I could have quite a little Olympia. Yeah, Phoenix has an unknown chance. And the unknown territory is for everybody. I mean, they come here. They're going to do a good. They want to do a good. They're going to do a good. That's the bottom line. And you know what? They're ready to do a good. The good thing also is that, you know, we're going to be there covering the show. And it's a great way to showcase yourself and get a lot of notoriety because you give us full access to the show. We have video. We have interviews. We have play by the picture. So you're going to be all over the place. Even if you don't win, you come in top five. You're going to get a lot of publicity from this, which is going to be a launching pad for the rest of the year because people forget what you did last year. They only remember what you've done lately. So I say, start early, get known, get seen. And then that's going to help you with the rest of your year's competitions. Right. And the other thing is that our hotel here is really cheap. I mean, it's the Marriott. And I think it ruined like a hundred and thirty book. Yeah, you got a good night. You got great. You got great. Yeah, great. And it's like, you even noticed the venue and the hotel, like right next to each other. There, point to three minutes away. I love it. That's why I'm coming. That's one of my, one of the reasons why I pick certain shows over this because it's Convenience to get there. Even though it's a long flight for me, I don't care because I get off the flight. I'm at the hotel in ten minutes. One after I get off the airplane. I'm in the hotel. If I got to go to the actual Mesa Arts Center. It's right there. And the convenience is amazing. It's good for the athletes. You have access to supermarkets around there. And you make things very easy. If people need help, rides, and stuff like that. So you're a very good promoter in that sense. Let's talk about the men's two twelve class. Once again, another, another first really. Well, not really a first. We've had some two twelve class. But this is the first one of the year. And I think that once again, I don't know what your, your turn before. But if there's any two twelve guys out there who are thinking about it or are close to two twelve, I would advise you to show up at this show because this is a phenomenal way to get your first Olympia qualification of the year. Yeah, I know. I mean, why is it there in not participate? I mean, everybody ready to need to show up. I think a lot of people waiting for the flex to pass over and before they come to Phoenix, I regard to it two twelve division. Some people looking to drop a weight to make two twelve. They need to get on the roster and come here to compete. You know, if there's no other opportunity to go to the Lumpia and kick on some money. Well, I see on the flex pro list, you know, that they had Mark Dougdale is doing it. And Eduardo Carrera is doing it. Now, these are guys that were two or two guys at one point. I would, it would be niff me, or but who of me, I should say. But then I'm not to drop down or try to suck down on the following week and then make the, the desert muscle classic, because that could be an easy win for you. The one of those guys. Doug else coming, he will be here. Now, Carrera, having a crisis, he already talked to me about him. I think he's coming also. Yeah, he is. Yeah, he is. From where I've talked to, when I talked to Chris. Yeah, that's not enough. Yeah, I would like to have a very good line of of two twelve, you know, and I hope the, you know, you make me proud because, which, what we're trying to do in Phoenix is create an opportunity for both of the me and the men's to twelve and men's open. The Phoenix show have the men's open. There's, there's a muscle classic, we have the men's to twelve. Gotcha. So they both have an opportunity to come here and compete and qualify and take on a nice decent check. And once again, my, the most, I got to be honest, the most exciting division for me, women's physique. The first, the young women's physique pro show will be taking place. I see you got Gillian Revelle on the poster. Yeah, beautiful. Yeah, and we did a little iron asylum, because she's very excited as well as a number of other girls who are going to be answering the show. The show is the IFB Desert Muscle Classic taking place on Saturday, February 25th at the Mesa Arts Center. You can purchase tickets at desertmuscleclasic.com. Stryker, I'm looking forward to seeing you in two weeks. Me too, brother. Can't wait. All right. Stryker Solomon, the promoter of the Desert Muscle Classic. Thank you, brother. All right. Two great interviews today. Stryker Solomon, the promoter of the Desert Muscle Classic. Just got off the phone with him, and he's excited about his show coming up in two weeks. And of course, we got the Flex Pro show. This weekend coming up, Chris, the C. Don't I there. We'll be there covering the event for your, all your listening and viewing pleasures. And it's always, always a pleasure to talk to the big robber Robert Bernaca, who is, I like to say, the freak of freaks. You know, there are freaks out there, but he is the freak of freaks, at least out there in the sport. Now he will be fighting in the ring and the octagon and MMA in Poland. I don't know what, they must be giving this guy an awful lot of money because I know Robert the probably not thrilled about doing this, but look, he's a movie star over there. He's got a movie star popularity and he's making cash and I take my hat off to him. Best of luck to you, Robert. And the ring, I have a feeling that he's going to destroy this guy. When this guy sees, it takes one look at the robber, he's going to probably want to go home, but you know, best of luck to him. For now, though, we are at a time, I'd like to thank Robert Bernaca and Striker Solm and if it's stopping by. Until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio that truth hurts. Heavy muscle radio is a presentation of RX muscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. To the next week at the same time, for another round with Dave Pullumbo, only on heavy muscle. Rehearsal, rehearsal, rehearsal.

To be Muscle Rigo! For Karen next guest is an IFBB pro. He's been in the industry a long time. You might know him as the guy who likes to take out the dog. He's one and only Jerome Ferguson. Yeah. Drick. How did you know? What's his name? Lonnie T. Forgive you the nickname. Hollywood Ferguson. With that company. You know what? You know what? You know what? I mean, you know, you know, he's going to take it off and keep it real. John, who is he gave me that message? Oh, Lonnie T. He takes credit for that name. You can take credit for it? You know? But I mean, I'm going to the middle. But John, you know, I mean, one, I mean, it's like, shoot 2000 water, whatever. You know, he's what do you think? We think you are your Hollywood? Because that's the answer that first did to the other dollars, they did 2000, 2001. And he's like, we think you are Hollywood? You know, so that's how it's, you know, how it basically came out in the beginning. It's stuck. Now, for people who might not know what we're talking about, when you would do your posing routines at the national level, whether it be the USA and the nationals, you used to do this crazy routine to who let the dogs out and you would take your hair out because you got along here. And you just let it go crazy. And you just do this real funky, you know, type of music dance and type stuff on stage. What inspired you just to do that the first time I loved it because it most people are so boring on stage. And it's a belly of it. You know, you know, Dave, I always been in a team to do that been part of my personality. And I'm really not a company, I'm a donor man. We've been around watching one hundred one-down nations, you know, and then like, you said, I like that song, who did the dog go? You know, I was like, I like that song. You should pull to it. I'm like, okay. And then I created cool dance, you know, like, go around and circle like a dog. You see, I'm going back and forth, Dave. And then it goes man, who let the dogs know? People don't realize that because I have, I don't have kids, but I have little dogs. And what I do with the dog is when, and I do with people around. I don't even realize it anymore. I make these funny dog voices like I have the, each dog has their own voice. And I just, it's like a really high-pitched voice that I do, which you'd never expect to hear me do it. And I go around and I chase them around like a retard, you know, to any person outside with that guy was crazy. So you probably do the same thing with your kids. And sure, and then you just translated that onto the stage, right? Exactly. If I just do my daughter, we can play around house fun. And that is, you know what? And later, happy, she loves to hear me all stage. And I just created all creative things from up for her. Who let the dog know, is dinner by the song, like it is. And I was like, okay, dinner by the song, I really had to do it. And I, you know, and that's how I do it. And then who let the dog know, so every, every one of them came out, did you? If I started off with a, you know, caught kind of serious song in my routine. And then close to the end, I put out, who's that said, dogs, dogs, whoo! I love it. I love it. Because you know, and you and I have talked about this before, that especially the bigger guys, most of their routines are so boring. Oh my God, you want to like, you want to like, you want to like, you want to like, you want to like, you want to put a bowl in your head. I don't know why people can't be creative. I know man, it was like, I'm not ball ready. Don't go, don't go, don't go. I mean, it was like, I mean, you know, I mean, I've like, so many shows over the years. And about time they get up to the big guys, I was going to go home. I mean, I'm passionate about it. And people in the same thing, you know, I'm like, this thing will be a fun entertainment. And I'm an entertainment. I love how fun. And do, I'm like, let's wait for you on up. Let's get this party started, right? Now baby. You're right for the super happy. And then everyone is like, why do we have to wait and then they leave with a smile on their face? I used to do the same thing. I wasn't the best pose, but I always tried to do something creative, so that when people left, they were smiling, you know. You know, they, they, they both are typical of show. You know, they come and see a show. Right. You know what I mean? I mean, you know, like, I mean, I'm like, I'm going to show anybody. I'm going to show. I'm going to show. You know, if people want to show. And I'm like, right. That's what it's all about, man. Give me a show. I agree. We have to have like American Idol for like, bodybuilders or something like that. You see the level of routine go up really fast. If we did that. Really fast, man. I was just talking about this with Melvin Anthony, who has been missing a team at the L.A. FedEx bow. And he's going to start helping other guys, you know, but some more creative routines together. Which I think is a brilliant idea. You know, I would hire someone like Melvin if I live near him. I don't hire you too, because you guys got creativity. You know what? And that'll bring you back to bodybuilding. You know what I mean? Because people want to see bodybuilding. But they really don't want to see a big body on stage. You're not opposed with, you know, the name boring music. You know, man, or, you know, they want to see a show. You know, man, I mean, I got these circles of the lane. But you know, you know, they really want to be a show. And that, you know, I think, you know, as it goes on. And because I mean, what I first did it, believe not. The judges and people really, I mean, the judges kind of like, the judges kind of like, has their name. Hey, what are you doing? You know, because I kind of changed the whole, you know, being with my little creative team a little bit. And you know, John, like, that's why he taught me Hollywood. He went like, you know, give me a compliment. The moment he was like, what do you think you are? Hollywood? He's got a love bit. He went along with it. You guys, I thought you could say, I'm crazy. I want to learn that bit. There you go. You've done more tickets. So that's why we're all with it, baby. You know, you've been doing this for quite a while now. Starting in 2004 is really when you kind of broken to that top five at the national level. You were forth to the, and the national, I believe. I think in the North American, you were second in the United States. And then, you know, every year after that, you kind of was in that top five group. Uh, however, it took you another five years or six years. I should say before you finally got the pro card at the mass as national when you won the super heavy there in the overall there. What, what do you think was it was hard? Tell me how hard number one it is to get into that top five. And then why is it even harder to get to that number one spot? Which I never did get to, by the way, everyone knows. You know, you know, Dave, you know what? It was hard. It took me years to even because I got 2000 and I didn't break into it until 2004. And you know what I, what I did, I stuck out to the North America. And I think I got seconded in North America. Right. And I should, and I was kept going to USA. And you know, I mean, I remember I think I remember a 12th place, but I think they played some play. You know, but, you know, it was hard, but what would really hard is trying to do this. Trying to do this hard. What was your problem? I remember seeing you do USA when you're at the way. And I was predicting you were going to win the whole show. And then the next, you know, you showed up the next day and you looked a little different. Were you having trouble getting the peak down? You know what? That's the biggest problem. I don't care what no one thinks. I mean, I get caught the dexter and you're caught. But the hardest thing was to get that peak right. You know, and what I kind of learned at the very end, you know, how to change your things. You know? The less you change the better, I always say the same thing. The less you change your better. You know, and all that law control, you know, because everything else is there. And then you try something different. And then there they go. That's what I kept doing. What was the craziest thing you did like, someone else's advice that you realize it in high end retrospect that you really screwed up big time doing that? You know what? That one is by when you take money. Eat money. Oh my god. How many of us is cheap? I think I made it. Like, six months. But those are the very beginning. Yeah. And I don't tell you a name because the name is, he's going to be doing really good now. He's doing something sabotage. Do you know, it was where a priest got his profile. Right. That was about, was like, 2000. Five or something like that. That's right. That's like 2000. Three. Three. Don't read something like that. I think it was four. Maybe I got it. So what happened? So he. So before he died in. Got him up and up. And I never ate money. You know, I was caught up. You know, but the jam was on the table. All right. And you just got the mess, man. And what happened? You just moved out completely. I was like, over, overshutter. Why do we crazy? It was almost like I was like on a set of things. I'm glad you're admitting this because you know, we would feel so horrible about what happened. They wouldn't even say it. But you do it, men, because you know it. There. No one just shows up one day and then looks completely different. The next day is always something that goes on and, and I, And, you know, we, we eat to reiterate this because you train a lot of people on a regular basis. And I'm sure you've learned from this you've got wisdom from doing this, the less you do the better. I say it all the time to these guys. And I see this crazy nutty stuff that they do. Honey, or or or like you said, Like you said, muffins or they start eating, you know, french fries or pizza. And then all of a sudden they go from looking amazing. Maybe a little flat to being completely loaded at a control the next day. Yeah, I agree. So, no more muffin loading for you. No more muffin loaded. You know what I think of, you're talking to me, you're talking to me, you're talking to my corporate. And what you bring to the state, you get it ready before you need the show at, they are going to be ready when you show it. Right? 100 out. The best advice, that anyone could listen to, all the listens that they listen to this advice. He's learned, Jerome Ferguson has learned the hard way and he's giving you wisdom. Don't ignore it. And this little given that he's the one in show, he's ready for the show, you get the little show, the simple stage, the show, what you got. You said it. Yeah, you're all the crazy stuff you're done. You said it. That might work out of your stage. If you have to do this crazy stuff because you don't look that good the week of the show that you're probably not in shape anyway. How did you get into training people, Gold Gym Venice? Did you grab over around there? You know what I don't believe, I'm not good. I don't know, can I see you? You are from Tate, how did you get out to California? When did you get out to California? You came out in 1940, wanted to be like Arnold. You wanted to be a body of the man, wanted to give him TV. You know, you did, you did give him TV. Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm going. What's the latest commercially, the last commercial I think I saw you did, did that plan of fitness commercial? Have that come about. Yeah, you know what I do, it was, it was crazy man. You know, I went on doing it and I talked to Lou. You're an actor, go act, go get paid. Look for a million, you mean, talk to us. We know, yeah. Really? Yeah, so I get there. No, no, stop your first acting. You didn't want to do it because you thought it was making fun of body building. You thought maybe you get some fly, because that was the problem. Yes, you know what, I think that, you know, it wasn't about getting a fly and give you know, fly to people because you know, man, you know, love you, you know, you know, you know, I'm all about love, but those are fact deaths. I don't like the way they, you know, they action body building, body building. You know, man, the way they, they doing it, you know, so I don't, I'm going to agree with that. But it's a TV gig, it's a, the one point that it's a message, but at the second point, you're trying to get into Hollywood literally. And this is a way in there because a lot of people saw that commercial. Is that over million five? Well, so. Did you make some money from it? Two. I made some good money. You didn't realize that I did a national commercial. They keep paying you every time they they freaking, you know. You know, just, just, just, wait, I just, I just got a phone call. What? 30. From my agency. And they wanted to show one of the commercial I did, because I did a key of car commercial. It was on a sublow lecture. Wow, that's a one of the short, you know, they want to show it in Russia. What, what do you get paid for that? How much extra? I like a lot. Like what? How much? A lot. Tangerine. More. Close. Yeah, no, people don't realize these commercials they pay you, you do two seconds on TV. I did a satellite radio commercial, an XM satellite radio commercial would have it's certain the future. It was as girlfriend at the time. And I got paid for like, like, two years on that thing. They kept sending me checks. I was like, it was like a kid and Christmas every time I came on. Yeah. So that got 30 checks. No, one time. Tell me about it. So we're having a talk. You're not to do it. Don't let shove it up their ass. Is that the right man? And I believe not. And I poured the, a couple months ago. I got too much checks from the final fifth commercial. I really want to show it again all this year in New York and in LA. Wow, that's awesome. Jerome, that also people don't realize now. They pay also. They do it on YouTube. I hear you get a YouTube check too. You do a YouTube check. You just do it. I'm telling you it's unbelievable. And that's really the next reason. This year, a vision. And I've made money in acting. I've been doing it for a long time. You know.

But this year I can officially say I'm an actor. Stag paid my insurance. Oh, you got the benefits. Wow. You know, that's a benefits man. You know, I made some experience. Oh, can I tell you what I'm doing? Yeah. That's really well. Yeah. People don't realize if you work a certain amount of hours to per year, they give you benefits. And the segment of fits are also because they cover a lot of cosmetic procedures, too. They say I do it. I'm a team. I am two. I'm an actor. You are now. We're going to call you. You're on the actor Ferguson now. Forget the Hollywood. Well, Jerome, the actor, you know, because I do this. I mean, I just, I'm just, you know, it's almost like a win of all. You know what I mean? But you kind of work for. I mean, it's like, you know, like, three money. I mean, just, just, because you do it for free. That's what you like acting, anyway. I love acting, man. And it just, you know, I made a bunch of money. You know, like, you know, you go where, when I went, when I went, when I went, I meant to be a show. Hey, like I took a couple of commercial. You want to let me a show. Talk to me about some of these, uh, possible future roles. Why? I mean, what are you looking to do? You said you, you, you, you, the originally thought about possibly, you know, dropping the weight and then going for the more mainstream look, but now you're saying, no, you're not doing that. Yeah, you know what? I don't have to. You know, as it kind of worked out in my favor. You know, because I believe not, I just shot a pilot with Jamie Kennedy. Wow. And then, yes, uh, for TVX. And, uh, I got a call from TVX for personal Jamie Kennedy production. I said, and TVX, they love my work. And, uh, you know, uh, you know, they need a somewhat accessible one with it. And, uh, you know, if you're looking a bright future, what do you do with that? What's your part next? Officer Jamie Kennedy, though. You know, I do it. I play, believe not, he played a, um, he played a Russian, a Russian master guy. Mm-hmm. And I was just heavy on this bodyguard. Okay. And, uh, you know, uh, and we knew, you know, how he, uh, blind, good old, blind, please, German or whatever she was, a Russian girl. Mm-hmm. Um, and, um, it was a lot of fun. It was, uh, they, they based on a movie, had a pair of twapps. Yeah, yeah, sure. Yeah, it's based on that, man. It's time now. It's really, really good. Now, you get a busy, will you be a recurring, uh, part in that series or is it just the pilot, you know, one time deal? No, no, it's not what time deals. Whatever, whatever they come up with, some different things, they put me in there. That's awesome. Funnall. Congratulations. That's a, that's a bigger news than you, you, you possibly get on stage later this year. Exactly. Because you, uh, you turned pro in 2010. We hadn't seen you for, uh, you haven't competed yet. You haven't made your pro debut. Thinking about doing it this year. You know what, yes, I am probably around the summer. Uh, what I needed to, you know, what, I want to bring my first ball, doing that to the time off. You know, I was so tired of trying to get that pro card. You know, I mean, you know, I do know that, um, those are journey. And a few times, I didn't think I was going to complete that journey. You know, I mean, I, I leave that stage to, you know, what, me, but I think it's, you know, time. Because, you know, I was saying, this is my destiny right here, you know, yeah, no. And, uh, and then something to kick back in, you know, and, uh, and, uh, when it's again. And, uh, when I finally got it, I thought, wherever, uh, James said, hey, Trump, you know, you're not, you still come on, you know? I was just, I was just wrong. As I was being excited, oh, five, oh six, oh seven. You know, not. Right now, I'm just, I was leaving. Yeah, you look, you looked almost quiet after you won. It was like a very peaceful time for you. Yeah, it's like, you know, I did it. And then, uh, after that, you know, I was like, you know what? If I did my pro-card, I didn't do anything I want. And then that's when I said, okay, I'm focused on my energy and the TV. Yeah, three commercial, they're tech-spel commercial, they're button-up comp, I mean, uh, sorry, tech commercial, then I did the, uh, plan and speed of commercial. And then I did a queue-to-car commercial. Right. Right here. And, you know, and Louis Fregno gives you some advice, is that, is that true? Yeah, Louis, I was, um, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I really, you know, you know, I was fully, you know, plan and speed of commercial, you know, you got me booked on it, but I'm like, you know, you know, I don't, I'm kind of, I'm kind of torn, you know, it's wrong with you. You're extra, co-capate, go go act, that's what you do. Very good advice from you, you know. That's what you do, you know. And let me, let me back up so when I get there for the plan of speed of commercial, they want me to be Batman, you know, and not things on the table, you know. So, so I'm like, I did it and they made, and then they was like, you know, you know, and how do you feel about that? I said, well, you know what, I don't feel that. I just, I'm just not doing that. And what would you do? I'm not a pal. You know, I'm a chef, you know. And you're like, yeah, how? That name was Chef Jopney. Okay, hold on, hold on. And we went from there and it's how to get. So you made up the you basically wrote the commercial, too. I wrote, go there, pal, bank commercial. I wrote it. They loved it out the way they were clapping and hand everybody's just like, you know, we did it. They should have paid you for the action money for, for writing the commercial. Sure, wrote that commercial. That was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, that was, you know, you know, you gave me a pin and I pop. You know, me, I mean, your face, you know? I would have a good time. No, I know. I think you should start writing some commercials, maybe, for these products. You got good ideas, obviously. Yeah, you know, it's like, let's how to, let's see. I'm gonna do a big board of meals. No, no, no, no, no. You know, let's say, full of flavor, too, you know. I love it. I love that. Okay, if anyone out there gets a chance going YouTube and YouTube that commercial, it's really entertaining, I'll put it on the throttle, I'll put it on the radio, the red, so the people can check it out. You know you've been Not only you enacting you've been training people for many years at Gold's gym over 15 from my recollection now I always liked the fact that you're real you keep it real you clients you make it fun for them I see in the gym when you're training people when I go down that and that's why we build Comstack and I decided to start this little training series with you called Ferguson's in Ferno I was like god days in Ferno Because you put these guys through hell literally You like that you love that neighbor You can't fern with Ferno man like yeah baby, let's just do it started man Yeah, you know what happened was you know, I you know, I you know, I'm a you know I'm a great bodybuilder doing the body Trainer you know what I mean it's like okay actually You can what you want I got so much love of people and And the body just the way that I change mine And I like to give back and so I like you show it by the wall and I feel to you so when me and for these came in I was like You feel sure now we'll shoot a guy in heaven He's a monster. You're right and build up with everyone tell with you everyone tell with you I'm like okay, okay, but he wanted to train Bad with you and I was like okay, so you know, I'm like in my brain like I'm not really bored But like It's something that was easy that I want to do something else because I had been doing piles You know, I've trained with training my other clients going plow between because I you know I like to do cardio And so I'm so my other client, you know, they would give stuff when you lose the way so I have the house making them do piles And stuff between each rep You know, he said you know you do like that sure they do plow So that I create so I would like to build you know I'll actually train You know, I could build and do me everything love the bad work out Everyone do you talk about my remember Yeah, he loves the bad work out so much. He wanted to train me again You know, if you want to train me We have he had a little bit of a little bit of issue That's okay. I could build can can I do this my way you know I mean I get this new idea. I want to try it. I want to do it You know, I feel like okay go ahead and And you don't love it haven't hated and loved it in And that went for no I mean you feel further than far away Never seen far from I never seen anyone train like that you just train someone in the inferno James Newman I saw him at the LA FedEx by the cake of belly walk It's the most incredible routine if anyone wants to see that the video is up on the side right now It's it's probably put up in the last couple days James Newman in Ferguson's in front of is quite the video this kid you really touched out of him You know what I really didn't know and it was him It was like okay, you know I love this guy because he got his He got a little edge swimming. He got his ego in his edge He's doing his thing man And his brain he just wanted to be close. Yeah, he's a military guy. That's why Military guy's like just beat me up You know I'm like because I tell him I might do you know I'm gonna do some chess to some it's like Well my short of a lady here's like okay, let's do legs. I'm like you sure you want to live You and I just Blaves the man and you did I created because I created crazy work out and what I do I know people and when I'm playing them I get into them. You know me I get to admit to with them So I know what they can do I feel but how far to push them and win when they push with it right up When they're not He went far He went far He went far man you already done the death He went to God the death of you would have pushed them there I was like no no He wasn't on quit man No, he was done he was got a long time ago It's like I should have been right down that boy to cut him off He was good but he can't want to do it And I look at Bill I did like a bill I'm not a good one at his Well, if I didn't want to Distantly did this once ago in a Ferguson's in front of you can contact me at huge 285 a day Well that caught my email and submit your name if you're gonna be on California We might we'll see if we can If Jerome will take you on and and talk to you through a workout But people want to get in touch you to train with you on a regular basis Jerome What's the best way to do that your website? Yeah, I go to my website It's they hit me Jerome hot with Ferguson and y'all who calm They can be Facebook drunk Ferguson and I am pretty pro you know and it's Them messages and come on down, but you know and don't be afraid because it's not like I I'm trying to kill you hurt you almost I'm gonna take you to your limit and All you limit just put it this to make you better person when you're done hanging out with me That's right. That's right. And you can check them out at your room for gerson.com Hopefully we'll see you on stage a little later this summer Jerome and it's always a pleasure to talk to you And you got to keep us updated to what's going on in the acting field because I have a feeling when you make it like Arnold I want to make sure I get tickets to all your uh, all your three meters, okay? Hey, I don't take care of you. I got something really big cooking so let me some good energy out there much love to all you beautiful people all you Fam with your call friends. Thank you guys for all the your support believing in me and most of all day Thank you for having me on and believe me as well day Much love Jerome will talk to you later. Okay. My love a talk you later. All right that was Jerome Hollywood Ferguson and Couldn't mean a nice of guy. This is uh, this is a guy who really has a love for what he does training people for the sport itself For life and you know I like to talk to people like that but it's been a good mood I was in Sedona like I said earlier at the Chris the whole weekend or for the whole early part of the week and I'm in a good mood and I'm about positive energy and I'm glad that Chris Was able to you know hold down the floor while I was going so to speak and now that I'm back and All is good in the world Back to the sport of bodybuilding and then we got a lot of coverage coming up in the next couple weeks The flex pro shows coming up Following that we have the desert muscle classic strike or solemn and show followed by the Arnold classic a week off we got to cover the the Australian Grand Prix I heard jubacca singin' them and we'll be out there for that. I will be at the same Louis bro Which will be followed on the Sunday after that show with a bro's verse pros So we got a lot of good stuff coming up in the month of February and March That's all she wrote. So I'd like to thank your own Ferguson for stopping by till next week remember with heavy muscle radio the truth heavy muscle radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com the truth in bodybuilding to the next week at this same time We're another round with Dave Pullabbo only on heavy muscle really

3, muscle, 3, go! All right, our next guest is an IFBB Pro, one of the freakyest guys on the pro circuit. He's due to have an MMA fight, which is kind of a little unusual for a bodybuilder, but that's why we got him here tonight, welcome back to the show, Robert Bernica. Hey guys, what's up? Go on, go on. Every time I talk to you, you got some new go-in on. Oh, yeah, it's always something going on. You know, it's funny because a lot of bodybuilders just sit back on their butt and they train and they eat and they compete. You have a lot of action going on. I know you're really big in Europe, Paul and they love you over there. We got a lot to talk about because you got a lot of stuff coming up, but the thing that really struck, I guess my surprise, because I didn't even know you were into this, is that you have an pro MMA fight coming up. Yeah, yeah, I get out because I'm going to take place in Poland, April 27th. And basically, you know, with one fight for now, and they'll see, I'm not quitting bodybuilder and don't know. No, they had this come about because, you know, I didn't even realize you were even into fighting, much less than to do an actual professional fight on TV. You know, basically, how used to fight when I was, like, a lot of young, you know, like 10, 12 years ago a little bit. So I feel no, with some stuff. So you know how to handle yourself in the ring, as well, I'm saying. Oh, yeah, exactly. So, you know, it's not a lot of folks going over there, you know, like in Europe, oh, bodybuilder, Kent Moore, you know, are different. There's, you know, the enough strong, you know, how it is. So I want to prove bodybuilding can do a lot of stuff, not only getting pumped, you know. I know you can shoot guns, because I've seen you shoot lots of guns, but to me, you always seem like a very nice guy. I have that killer instinct, you know, that if you're in the ring with another guy, you can beat him to death, so to speak. Oh, you know, I can beat him to death. No, you got your fight. Who's this guy you're fighting, is he a name fighter in Poland? No, he had a couple of fights, but he'd like you to be, you know, good, like, professional boxer, basically. Gotcha. Yeah. So they call you from Poland and they say, hey, Robert, we want you to fight this guy and some big event were holding called MMA Attack 2. And I'm assuming they probably offered you a lot of money to do this. You know, that makes some money somewhere, because you know, as bodybuilding is competing as a contest, you can make you a name, you can be in your build, you know, the name. What kind of cash you got to put in on the line for this thing? Oh, I can tell that because they don't make this to you. They announce when when boxes, you know, making $5 million or, you know, whatever, is it more than any pro-shut? Oh, yeah. A lot more than what we're talking about six figures, at least. Yeah, I don't know, just something. Wow, no, all right, so that's a nice payday for you. Yeah, so I think the most bodybuilders, even if they can't fight, would probably go into the ring for that much money. Yeah, exactly. No, let me ask you a question. Is it the, I don't really know that much about MMA fighting, but I have to imagine that it could be dangerous in there. I mean, you know, there's another guy who's trying to kill you, you know, and make a lot of money from it. You don't have any fear over this? Oh, you know, you're getting to the butt. I got to the end of my way, basically. They got to 100, 20 pounds, I think. Wow, what are you going to weigh in the ring? Well, to 80, to 25. Oh, wow, so you're not getting, you're not dieting down for this. You're going to go in as is. No. Yeah, I'm making all of you know, I'm just trying to stay baby, but still in decent good shape, you know? Right. Are you still lifting heavy? Oh, yeah. No. No. You lift heavy, but how do you keep your cardiovascular endurance up? Because you're going to need some, you know, if you don't make it, if you get this guy makes it past two minutes, you better have some endurance there, you're going to, you're going to pay. Yeah, I know, basically, you know, I want to take the guy and destroy him. And he's going to start his 30 seconds. But that's all good and then, but what if the guy makes it past 30 seconds, were you? Are you going to make sure that he's not going to die? No, what's your strategy? Just you're going to charge him and just start, you know, weighing on him? I don't know. I'm not going to take you out of the way, basically. So, I don't know how much I can do. So, what's the most dangerous spot to be kicked in where it's disabled? Like, what's the vulnerable areas? Like, the legs? I don't know, legs, you don't know. Oh, you can kick up that high, huh? I'm not fired in that, Sus. Really? Well, every guy got back up to see this on video. I'm impressed because a lot of guys that are as big as you, darn that flexible. Yeah, exactly. So, I still can just put it in today. You could do a split? Yeah. Wow, that's very impressive. Who's training you when you're fighting? Who's training me? Nobody. You're training yourself. Yeah. Now, do you go to a separate gym for that? No, I don't really train too much. It seems like you're taking this fight very lightly, Robert. You know, I don't want to sacrifice my guns for this fight. No. I still want to be big. Right now, you worried that you might get hurt or injured in the fight, you know? No, so you're not worried about this guy. No. Now, in pain, in pain. In Paulin, that they making a big deal about the fight, I saw a poster for it. It looks pretty impressive. Yeah, yeah. It does big deal. It's talking about the win, all right? That was going to be on TV there, too? Oh, yeah, of course. What? Now, we talked about this before in a had gym. The show, you're like a celebrity. You go there and you're like a movie star there, right? Yeah, basically. I have my own show, what they're on TV, you want to be. What's yours? Like, 13, what are the ended? And basically in a couple weeks, you guys coming again. So, you know, second studio, again, so back to the old, so we'll be coming in and back as actually we're going to start filming in our movie. So, I'll be there. Wow, so it's like a reality show for you then, huh? Yeah, I like a reality show. I know more to buy the building stuff, what you know, what I do every day and basically like this. To bed, they can't have a reality show like that in the United States. Oh, my God. She's basically you're like snuck you over there and only in Poland. Yeah, basically. That's all. You know, because by the building, there's like a little set of building all you can to go to find it. My girl. I'm beyond the end of the building. Right. I know, I know you love living in Vegas and everything. But do you ever get tempted to like want to go to living Poland? I mean, you such a star there. No, it's, you know, it's good, but you know, I say like the letter of Poland and back to see everything. Because, you know, I think if I was that popular Poland, you'd probably be like, they treat you like a king there. You probably wouldn't pay for anything. They'd probably be caught by that. Yeah, I saw a lot of things. And I was like, you know, I was over there four times. And I think I've scheduled this year a couple of months ago. I think a couple of times. So, well, you know, congratulations on the notoriety over there. And I hope you beat the Kell out of the sky. Now we get it. We're here in the United States. How can we see this fight? Do you think it'll be like on YouTube or something like that? Oh, definitely. I'll be in YouTube. Probably right after I fights over. It'll probably be on the other hand. Yeah, yeah, exactly. That's going to be crazy. I can't believe you're actually going to get into the ring. And punten you. You wear gloves. What do you, how is the, what's the garb over there when you do them? Yeah, it's basically on my gloves. Like, my boxing button, like you'll see right in gloves. I remember watching Bob Sappfight when you got into that MMA. And I was like, oh my god, I would not want to get hit by these guys. But some of the, the really good MMA guys are, you know, they can handle like a big guy like you. But I guess this guy is like, he's not a champion or anything like that, is he? No, no, no, no. He's a journey man. See, you should hope you able to kick his ass. Now, yeah, with all this notoriety and everything you've been getting and money, you've been making, you actually started your own supplement line, which I want to congratulate you on. It's called Bernaca Sport. Yeah, it's important. And basically, I got already, like, three products out to the 420, still in progress, like three workout jinx, many clubs. So, you know, I'm basically the most, the stuff that's in Europe. But here is available as well in United States and the NACA Sport.com. It's Sport or sports. It's important. Okay, BernacaSports.com and what kind of, what kind of products are you selling here in the US? Well, now I got a God-burner, a life-on-house, then a hyper wall, which is like three workout and a jito. Mm-hmm. You've got a pretty workout chain coming out or a deal, like two weeks, basically. Like a, like, actual drink drink. Yeah, yeah, yeah, like, pretty workout really good. Well, I got all the innovative formula making just for me. Did you help formulate these products yourself? Yeah, I tried everything, you know, it was me a while. By the time, to get everything right, but they got somebody who formally, for me. Gotcha. Yeah. I'm assuming you're very popular probably in Poland, I would think. Oh, yeah. Exactly. Is it true? You told me you're selling the pro-harmonies in Europe because they're legal there, right? Yeah, yeah. I got for a home on fiat, uh, you can take you up for X for only because you're not. I'm telling that. Right, right. Well, that, that, that, that, congratulations. I'm glad that you, you got a business going for yourself. Oh, thanks. I've been doing all these days to get the imponsor for why do you go business so hard? I always say, do it yourself, invest in yourself and that's what you're doing. I guess this fight you're having will help really finance that supplement company. You can buy a lot of inventory with that money. Oh, yeah, exactly. That's what it's about. People don't realize that you're, you're a, you're a, some very smart business man. And, uh, I know you're selling. You're still into the whole bodybuilding thing very strongly, but, uh, what, I, we're going to see you compete this year. Are you going to take a year off? Oh, basically, my plan is compete next year because, you know, I've been dieting for last 40 years, basically. I don't appreciate what they're, uh, related. Right. And, uh, I think that in, I can't improve over dieting that stuff every year. So, just taking this year off to improve myself, basically what I need to get my leg bigger. Then I'll just stuff and come back next year. I'll let me guess. Well, how have you changed your dear, your training strategy to help, you know, achieve these goals that you're looking to do? Oh, basically, I just feel heavy, but, uh, more basically, like, uh, just a little break. I had a small drop set that had a bit different different stuff where I used to do. What, what are you doing for your legs? That's a body part that you really want to get bigger. Well, that's, you know, basics style squat, uh, Morris Smith machine squat, I'm losing now. I say, no, just like you've got to, uh, Can I slide a little bit of that? Just, yeah, I felt it's a little bit more. Are you training with Dennis Wolf still? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was training. And by the day, but we get in a couple days a week. I'm four times a week. Yeah, that's good. That's excellent. I know, that, that news they can tell you that next time you come to that, That's the gold from Flaminggun, Tom Hill, who be closed. Yeah, what happened with that? Yeah, I heard that rumors. That's true, huh? Yeah, I did true. Why would they close the biggest goals, Jim, they haven't made this? The kid, I think they didn't have, you know, to the nuts people because all of his nuts people were dead, and, you know, they didn't, but thank you, money. Wow, I can't believe it. It does another business neighborhood that I don't, then, you know, but I love you. I don't know. I love you. I don't know. It does, Jim, and I guess. Wow, maybe it's too big. The mind of the rent might have been too high. I don't know. You know, it's all about, you know, now, those GMs open, you do one, and people, you know, people, you know, people, and I've got a lot of good anymore, you know, that. Where are they? They just teach them. Where are they training now, in the, I guess. I'm not a smart, Jim, I guess. I think I could have it a lot more gold, Jim, but, if you're messing with the, now, it's like this one, you know what I mean? No, I know that, but I'm saying, where are people getting got? The GM is there yet. Another GM that's taking its place, so to speak? Yeah, if someone, they can be below, under someone, and under them, they're just, another gold. Yeah. It's still decent, but it just atmosphere. It's not, not too good, you know, then. Soft and soft, yeah. Yeah. So you and Dennis Wolf are going to have to find another place to train, that's a shame. That's a shame. That's a shame. The, what are they going to turn into another GM, and they're just closing it? No, the closing. I can't believe it, man. The next thing, the next thing that's going to happen is gold, Jim, and Venice is going to close when Google takes over the lease. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There'll be no hardcore GM's left in the whole country, but, yeah. I'm not just a Steve Weinberg's place in New York. Yeah. Yeah. What, how is Dennis Wolf looking for the Arnold Classic, are you impressed? Oh, I think I can tell you, you look the best I ever seen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What is it going to weigh you? It's dry. You're now around 3. Oh, my God. Yeah, but really dry. Just for the, you know, but usually I see them before every contest. Yeah. He looked kind of what Tidico would be for kind of police. And this time, usually we get in dry, so I think I think he can fertility number one.

What do you attribute these the fantastic changes in the physique to do you think it's the the fact that you guys started training together over a year ago You know It's good when someone's pushing you a little bit the gym Does you lift heavy so I'm sure you're making him lift heavy. I know that Yeah I'm telling you that was the best thing that ever happened to start training with you I mean it's good for you too, but I'm just saying I think it was excellent for him because he knew he had no one in Germany That was who was pushing him the way you are You Maybe Dennis Welfel start fighting people in MMA in Germany He's making good money though. So he doesn't need a lot of it to do that Yeah, I could sit on his ass and lift him right in the train protein shakes I love it. I love that you're getting in the ring I'm really excited about I can't wait to see the fight which I go that that's great now What kind of arena are they holding it in is it gonna be like a huge place? Oh shit Very big that you do a whole like You know how the fight is walking to the ring to music and stuff like that What do you what are you gonna use what kind of music? My own song with that I was I was in I was at that and basically when it wasn't fallen yeah You got a music video I got to watch this I got to pull this up give me a couple lines of the rap sing a little bit to me I Dude in polish yeah I love it. I love it. Yeah, it's funny because as polishes people aren't real as polishes not your first language and you're freaking rapping in polish now That's incredible What do you feel the most comfortable speaking? I don't know it's like you know of course my own language in the opinion, but right now I'm so used to English or polish a little bit in the middle of them. You know if you come to Poland all is better than English Yeah, that's fine. I said yeah Paul is and now I do so much It's a bit close people like everyday you know, I'm putting into that and then I You know Mike for me every day or I didn't That's incredible. Did you work with people like I do diets and stuff like that for people overseas to? No, no, I don't do that now. I just I just have no time for that I hear you there go So what's the typical day like feel like when you get up in the morning? What do you do? Give me like The computer so like tell a car from wake seven or eight to black in the morning. Give that many emails Yeah, I'm not going you know like into the world. We got to take care of business a lot of stuff, you know planning my Those to Paul and then because I do it myself. You do no manager Yeah, I believe you I know Go to the gym come back again Need to get in all this It's something They've gone Do you notice that when you're on the computer you forget to eat sometimes because I always do that for some reason Get sucked into it Yeah, actually the smell I got and go I just want to do my Because we got the own ways you're show as well You're what what do you do a polish radio show? Yeah, I'm also doing I got it. It's a radio hoax Hmm So we feel my little thing is What is it to get idea live with your life like it's over class When the morning only one one week, you know, yeah, and what do you talk about on the show? How they should care about everything for diet, you know, they have to think some questions Or even could eat some advice like Really, you have a co-host who does it with you? Like you know We do two of us One other Paul is right? So you actually film it in your studio, huh? That's incredible Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's I call my studio What's the name of the show again? It is And we can get that on the Robert Bernacca YouTube page Yeah, yeah, I'm not used to page Robert sounds like you got a really full plate I'm excited you can have to keep us updated and you'll have to send me the link when as soon as that fight goes up on YouTube Because I want to watch it and then you can text me when you have to defy it's oversight I know that you're one and you're still intact Oh yeah Good Robert Bernacca will be fighting at the MMA attack to April 27th He's fighting Marceean and Najam And you can check out his new supplement line at BernaccaSports.com Robert, thanks for calling in there Okay, thank you so much This is heavy muscle radio Only on rxmuscle.com

To be Muscle Ringo! Our next guest is Back by Popular Demand. Good friend of ours, good friend of mine. He is the X-Man, Tony Freeman. Or something? Got you back here. We were trying to record before. We had a little technical difficulty. We're doing this again, and it's going to be better than ever. Tony, I saw you at the LA Fit X-Bow last weekend. And you looked great. You had the X-Pane booth you were at. You had your little corner section off there. The fans were mobbing you. And all seems good in your world. It was a good man, you know. I just went taking a slow, these last, almost, again, like six-day and weeks, and stuff. Master show. I just went taking a easy, letting my body heal. Top and off, all my essentials. Get ready for the season. Well, doing good. You know, we have the, we have the Bro's verse pros, strength challenge. Number 10 coming up. And I said to myself, who would I want to get for Bro's verse pros 10? Or Bro's verse pros X as we're calling it? I said, the dream pick would be Tony Freeman the X-Man, because that would be, you know, almost be like heaven said. And I said to myself, Tony's always traveling. He's busy. He's competing. He's dieting. And you know what? For some reason, the universe must have opened up its armstuff. And said, we are going to give you the X-Man, because you're not dieting. You're not competing. You're not traveling that weekend. And we got you. You agreed to it. Yep. I'm maybe doing it. You know, I haven't, you know, before I tore my pick, I was, you know, I wasn't like a super strong word. I could do a lot of reps with 225 and 15. I was doing 405 with that to 205. But, you know, we'll see, I'm not going to challenge heaven. I haven't, I haven't done a, any kind of competition like that. Because I really try not to football. You guys can deny this. Right. So we're calling this brazverse pros 10. The X-Man takes on the world. Because you are opening up, we are opening up this competition to anyone who wants to come down and see if they could outbench you for 225 pounds for reps. It will be taking place on Sunday, March 18th at the West County Health and Fitness Center. St. Louis, Missouri. It's the one. It's the same weekend as the St. Louis Pro show. Jack, Tony's, hydrolyzed, ultra will be the main sponsor of that event. And really, people can come down. You're going to go last whoever gets to, who puts up the most amount of reps is going to walk on $2,000 to richer. So there is some cash on the line here. There's a little bit of a, I think we'll see if people will lie in the room. Oh, yeah, you know where body goes. It'll do for money. Wow. So, you know, you're going to have some, some heavy head is coming down there. I'm going to, I want bragging rights to say that they beat the X-Man. And I know you, you're a fierce competitor. You're, you know, an athlete growing up and, you know, like the lose. I just met at all. Not at all. So I would definitely be training for this, specifically. I won't make a fool out of myself. You're also one of these guys that I, you're like a clutch player. You're, you're, you're the kind of guy that's like, cool on the pressure. You're always, you're able to perform. You know, when the chips down and when old it, well, you know, everyone's expecting you to just, you know, drop out of existence. You come back, you win a pro show. You know, I was watching the Super Bowl and, you know, Eli Manning is, as a guy like that too. He seems to perform better on the pressure. Do you like it when you have to, when you, when you, when you're forced, almost put out your best effort. I think it's new like that all through my life. You know, high school. I don't call it even great school. You know, just doing stuff under pressure. You know, you need to perform. I've always been a performer if it's our little kid. So I, you know, you know, that, that, that, that was chance to, you know, shine or step up at the back. You know, I want to play it back. I want to play it back. I want to play everything through it. We'll get shot at the buzzer or something like that in the win the game. But, yeah, I enjoy it. How do you, uh, quite your mind to the play where you can just focus on everything, nothing that's around you, but just on what you're doing. Because a lot of people get distracted. They allow the pressure to, to beat them. Uh, I see so many bodyables choking and screwing up at the last minute. How do you keep your head straight like that? Well, in the past, I haven't been one of those guys in the choke to the last minute. You know, now I kind of just, you know, I treat it as another day to office. And, you know, like, like, I always tell people, I don't celebrate when I win. I don't cry when I lose. Like, you know, it's my job. It's something that I have to perform at my best. No matter what the outcome, I'm just treated like that. And, you know, when you're, you know, the bodybuilding is not something that's cut and dry. I think it's easier for me to use to be harder because I should put a lot of emotions into it. But now it's business. So I understand the game, I understand how it works. You know, can it be better? Of course it could have. So, you know, but, you know, I play the game and, you know, and I try to get the best I would. And try to enjoy myself more and anything. And what? You have a son who's an ex on athlete. Would you work kind of advice to you give him so that he can, you know, not that same cool demeanor when he's playing his sports. Um, he's so gifted. You know, he runs track. So gifted and so talented. I'm actually encouraged him to seek out strong competition because I've watched him in the track. He never loses. Really? And my opinion, I think he needs to raise some people that are, you know, you know, but already, faster than him, you know, by the clocking away. Right. And see if they can't pull that extra gear out of him and see if he can see how fast he really is. So I just tell him the all and I look like that one I'll always play with the bigger kids. You know, when I was a kid, I played with girl men. When I was a little kid, I played with big kids. I always play with people that were better than me, a bigger than me. That was a close to be better than me. So that way, when you do, you know, get a shot on them or make a tackle on them or whatever you're doing, you know, if you know that you're really good, it's not this low because you're playing against competition that, you know, challenging you to do better and be your best. What is your best? What events does he do in the track and field? He runs 100 meters and he runs the 4 by 1, 400, the 200. He's just at academic all-American and athletic all-American for, you know, you know, and track him and with a grade in with his spiel on track. So that's not that pretty cool. Were you a good student in school? Did you not like the study and stuff in there? I did really well. I always tell my senior year. I've seen a year only had to go to school till 10 p.m. I had like two classes and so you know what I'm saying? I did really well like one through 10 months or 11. That's all the matters, of course. Yeah, I mean, I pretty much graduated early, but we moved and I just said, I'll get out through half a day and go to work. I started working. 11 grade. I didn't know. I did. Yep. When did you actually have your first child? 23. There you go. You got married at 21 and then I have my first child 23. That's good. He just turned 22. That's what I was going to say. Your kid is like, you can be a kid. Yeah. You can have it any more. Yeah. You can be a grand. My brother is my younger brother at the Grandfather already. I'm just a little bit not so, yeah. You know, very high in the hospital. I think that he's so focused on what he's doing. That he's not. I really don't fear it. I mean, you can have him that happens. But I really don't fear it because, you know, he's starting to realize what he has in front of him. So I'm hoping that I'm pretty sure he is going to just, you know, end up playing football in the last few years and probably 100 ago in between. I'll end up here or not in 2016. What kind of time does he run for the 100? Right at 10 second tip. Wow. Really? Yeah. That's, that's well class. I know. Right here at the 44 and a half inch vertically. Oh, my God. What's his name? Uh, mecoframin. To mecoframin. Wow. We got to kill the tiger. I have a common state. And you know, really, probably towards the end of the year, I'm going to put him in mince with each. He literally went into the seat, like right now. You know, he's on the bottom of the foot of my face. Just right now today. I'm wearing a present for 100 minute time. That's incredible. Yeah. He's like, you know, I was pretty fast. But I'm never really, you know, I didn't, I ran tracks like an easy grade. Yeah. I didn't really pursue it. And man, he's a beast. He's really, really is. See, I have a scholarship for that. Yeah. Yeah. We'll try it. You're lucky. Thank you. What's your ability? And it doesn't his speed. He has speed over a longer time. I think he can really be good at the 200 if he practices. Because he can maintain the top speed for a long time. And he just barely quickly could do. What is he long jump? You just started long jump. I'm not sure, but I know his standing bar jump is like, in eight. Yeah. Yeah. He's a freebie. It's like, he's leaking abilities. If I could ride steel in the 12 feet, I'm he can put his palm with his hand on the steel and hold my hand. Yeah, totally. Time of 11. Wow. What a jump. I wish he was a little bit taller than that. But, you know, he's a perfect height for a cornerbacker. You know, and then when he's 25, 26, 27, we can put him in a bodybuilder. He's a good guy. He's a good guy. He's like, it can make some money for this. I have to, like I told him, I said, you know, boy, who's drinking some more when you retire, you still have time to be a good guy. Yeah, when he's 40, look at you. He could get him to go into bodybuilding in 40 and be fine. Yeah. 35. But let's talk about you though, because for a guy who could possibly be a grandfather, you're pretty, and I see it the booth. And, you know, many people might not watch. I was watching you at the L.A. FedExpo, and I got a Dionistro, and I've told you this before, but when I was at a booth, okay, at 300 something pounds, and I was always in good shape, I would get tons of people coming over for autographs and pictures, and 90% of them, probably 95% of them were guys. They wanted to know advice on how to train, how to take supplements, and what I did, and diet, and stuff. And maybe one or two girls would come over the whole time. You got, like, at least 50% women at the booth, at your booth, all-oogling, googly-eyed, over you. I can't believe it. It's unbelievable. It's pretty crazy, bro. This weekend, it was a lot of fans there, period, but it was like, you know what I should say, 50% women. Like, normally most of the actual stuff is, a lot of guys, but it was a lot of women there. I actually got the Dionistro, Malano, come on, what's the level? No, I'm talking about it. Well, listen, Malano? You just, no, the niche. You just want the X-caliper, X-caliper. I don't know. You gotta look for a bro. Okay. He's like, hey, you get you there. You know, as I couldn't, there was one girl hotter than the next coming to your booth. I was like, in shock. Yeah, it was a bunch of day off. They all, you know what I'm saying? I mean, that's, you know what I'm saying? What are they all talking about? How can they like you so much, and they don't like these other guys? Well, I'm a real man, I'm a real dude. I'm not saying to these guys, aren't they? But what I'm saying is, I'm like, there, I'm the image. I'm there, a vision of what it should be. You know what I'm saying? So it's more like, shit in the moa. I learned of the young age, how to, you know? I don't, I don't, I'm a check woman, and that's the one of the main reasons why I picked that bodybuild because I knew I know a woman like I watched my listen to. I mean, I was the dude who didn't get to girl, but the girl would tell me all her problems about, you know, just do the math dude. And I learned a lot from that. I did that for like my whole high school career, and I just know. It started. It's studied. Not studied. What does it tell us what a girl wants? Please, we're all trying to feel this out, Tony. They want your listen to them. They can't exactly what they want. Each one of them is different. And if they open up themselves, do you know what they want? And they'll say it in a joking way, you know, or like, you know, like a signing free-spite thing, but it's you know, if you're a guy who can, or by that, you really want to girl them, then I mean, you know, not like they keep it a secret. But I'm so worried like to play games, of course. Because they don't want to be the first ones to get hurt. But when the time we got to be like, you're going to do this really just listen to them. See, you mean we actually have to listen to what they're saying is that they're trying my problem. Or you have to listen to what they're trying to say, not exactly the word. Not on the words. You don't say, you kind of got to read between the line. So they want people to get something like that. It's a fantasy romantic, very tale, that was a typical relationship. And you, and you feel like they're like the bad boys, just like choke them on. That's right. You feel like you feel the limits fantasies. Is that what you're telling me? I'm talking. Yeah. I'm talking. You're mentally not the male. Sometimes I'm not so okay. Yes, you're right. You're right. You're 100%.

Right now you you're always dressed well to where do you get your clothes because I don't have a big guy like you could actually fit in such you always have design a clothes on you always look like you pick your outfits out to match. It's just you know I take my time because it's number one it's impossible or you should be impossible for me to go to the mall and you anything you know I would always have to go get the relax field of bag you fit and you know like you know three sides of two big and then go get this way taken in and all that stuff of recently I found this place called K&G then big and tall and I'm actually Sean John has some wide laid slacks that they made the 100% really nice slacks they do book you got them off the rack I got every color yeah actually they you know I can kind of get them all to the perfect perfect but the fact that I can put them all the legs and I'm not gonna actually wear my belt without you know bunch of them all up looking at all crazy you know same fit the all of the should be like custom you know just be you know maybe a half inch in the length of maybe inch in the waist but normally I'd get like six seven inches in the waist you should have a pocket are and touch each other by the time they take your waist and I had this one lady who can make it look right but I mean yes but there's one for her then the pocket would be touching well I don't even know what I would do I would just wear you know there's almost really big my the bill is just wear baggy clothes and click so yeah you know you make a concerted effort though to address yourself and I think that's why people command a little more respect for me maybe well I mean you got it like okay the thing about us you know like in football they wear the uniform and the helmet stuff so we don't really get to see that face in our sport we're down to our skisys yeah so pretty much you know saying you can see the person and if they inshaped the out of shape so when we're not on stage you kind of got to give them something else and that's why I kind of like this you know put on the nice clothes and that way you're you're complete you're not just you know you know but I'm needed you're kind of more balanced and people are attracted to that do people come up to you in the in stores and stuff like that and try to like you know if there have been like go off for movie parts or anything like that or commercial work or because I mean you do stand out when people see they think that you're someone important I can see that I had a lot of movie industry people come up to me as a booth and and that latest past we've been so I'm making some connections that way but I'm right now I'm actually reading for part in this movie called Justice Knights I just got my the second act where there's for my my character is and I've been you know the one who we have been in the summer called Park so I'm starting to hate that direction I really enjoy acting you know I made the guy who's writing justice might he I made him in the spy and he said you know I might as a movie and I got his character you'd be perfect for him so he wrote me into the movie and they actually got me written into part two as well so I'm well looking forward to that okay does that the idea of getting my head a camera like that make you nervous it all since it's something like you haven't really done too much well you know I took I'm all too high school I mean I think I had acting experience but I've had experience being in plays in reverse and lines and stuff like that being in front of you know live people and then you know being on stage is a bodybuilder you have to perform I mean I guess you don't have to but if you want to be successful you can want to have fans you have to learn out of the form and you have to know how to control your emotions you know I've turned it on and turned it off so you know I got I'm not saying I'm a great actor anything but I know that there's a lot of guys out there doing it and if they can do what I can do that's pretty much right I'm sure that's the right out of two to have you know people I've been on movie sets obviously people don't realize a lot of times also when movies are filming sequence and not film like the whole thing in one shot so it does they do to begin the end first and then go do yeah you don't have to remember the whole script although I'm terrible memory I sometimes see some of these scenes with these guys speaking like you know 25 30 lines at a time I don't know how these guys actually can possibly remember all the lines but I guess it's crazy when I did that movie park you know he said me I had a pretty good significant park and so he said me the script and he said well the first day we shoot we're gonna do these pages right here so he gave me like I don't know four five pages and I had you know like 10 lines to do so I'm reading and studying and reading and reading and I go to the set and then he's like oh well I'm sorry we're not doing that we're doing this you're missing and I'm just like Ryan I don't even know I don't even know what the best thing is I was making ready to go home while I don't know what to do if I'm not going to be fine this read over you know I'll go on so I read over it and it was a it was a scene where I'm gonna go off and I'm coming to the club to collect money from the couple of old hours old me money and I'm like well I mean I think I'm been in that situation the time of two before so say I can do it so I've needed my mail there's an airbody and it's tripping it's like wow I do that was really good so from that moment I was just like really good I was like I think I'm on my new passion my new you know things you did in the thing that drive me to you know you better and better it's off you see you like the acting and that's good that's I love it it was really really cool now what minute you grew up in a tough neighborhood you said you had some experience with that um well just do life period life experience you know something you know I worked in the clubs you know they've been around the bottle for you dancing the club still you yeah I made you know I was a bodyguard you know back in the late 90s I mean late 80s early 90s Atlanta was like you know one of the drunk capital of the nation and it was a tons of Kingpins and maybe in there good news in Atlanta and it's coming to the club that I worked in all the times I should be security for those guys so I'm seeing a you know what I mean I know a lot of those time being there run through them so that's that's interesting I got you know that about you yeah it's kind of crazy but it's not like from 80s to 87 to 92 crazy club 112 people listen and they probably been there they know what's up it's good off the chain off the Rickness 20 out of the time stage you know I mean you know they've changed the whole area bucket they've revitalized the whole thing it's all up as buildings you know it's like an interesting history older like a never and I get never existed talk to me a little bit about though we got some you're gonna be competing a little later in the area and usually you compete all throughout the year you kind of this year kind of limited to the second half of the year I think what are you gonna do the first show is gonna be in June yeah I wanted to just focus on my business and focus on you know I didn't know I chose and that takes a total of your body so I just want to make sure that you know I get top of all my you know I'm a little bit of a tablet and runs past like that you end up burning through a lot of vitamins and minerals and enzymes and satiacis I just want to take time to let my body rebuild that all that stuff back up before I started dieting again so June Toronto Pro show looks good and then Chicago and July and then I'll see after that you know I'm like to do a few shows so but I'm gonna see just how those first to go and take it from there. Do you like the new rules where you have to win a show to qualify for the Olympia? I mean because you've obviously every year you pretty much want to show so for you it's probably not that bad but you like the idea that they're making it more selective. Well I definitely feel like you'd leave just only be on the stage and not taking nothing to give anybody else but I'm saying after around 10 to 12 are being announced as far as the interest so you know maybe cut it off at 15 but you know they're 16 pro shows so if you take away the the guys who qualify at the old and the guys who qualify at the Arnold. So you have to win so that leaves you know maybe 14 more guys besides the guys that qualify and then someone old guy that's gonna do someone old show that's gonna take it down another few places so we're gonna get to have that number of the top 10 to 15 you do you guys on stage and then I feel like everyone should be able to you know we should be able to compare everyone and then really put everybody you know then it'll be a better show for everybody I think and they're hopefully yeah well I think you're right I think that the you know really at the Olympia level no one really cares about the guys who actually had any show no one cares about the guys who play eighth place and down usually it to it's like alright get them off the stage we want to see these top seven or eight guys compare to see who looks the best and you know really at the Olympia it's the elite of the elites you really shouldn't you should really only have or 10 or 12 guys to begin with and so this is probably a good thing is gonna be less expensive for them to fly all these people in you get a more time to compare the people and I hear they're gonna be you said they're getting to begin with more prize money I think too right well if you freeze up more prize money what they do with it you know we'll see but the robin said that well that was the number one objective if we say if you you know say like 90 grand if there's like 10 less people in the show or something like that then you said they would put that towards a prize money first so I'm like well I mean that can only be good yeah I don't they don't give it all to the first place dude they're exactly exactly what I would do so to do that now you and I also talked off camera a little bit and I like to say you had this this idea to possibly you know make bodybuilding almost like you know the order racing industry you know like I like a point system tell me about that a little bit golf NASCAR all the sports like ours which you know basically are individuals and you might have a team we might we have gurus and sponsors and stuff so but the point system you get excellent a point for victory first second third for us this maybe and then you know it colders up over the year and that's how you're rank and then when you get to the limpio according to your rank that's how the call out should be and I mean I mean then it's been a surreal battle with the real five people who have earned their positions and nothing got around you know I'm saying people have put him to work they done the shows you know to got their points and no one can take him away from it then it's more I think it gives people more incentive to do better do more shows get to point I mean you know okay if they throw some of this extra pride in money on if you're re-prepared to my points I don't know it's all kind of ways to make it interesting but the thing about you know golf very few people follow golf back in the day not a guy's stadiums right I mean I got 20,000 30,000 people at a govt and you know coming for real so I mean that's because they've made it really legitimized they made it interesting so you're saying this if you get a point system it would encourage more body bills to do more shows because you wouldn't necessarily have to win but the most more point you accumulate that the better you're ranking will be toward the as the year comes to an end when you come to the Olympia and so what would you say like a certain amount like maybe top 12 point getters would qualify for the Olympia? Well I mean they could steal you know let's just say the whole you got to win a show thing works but there's only like eight guys that one shows and then you can then you know four more guys from the old in the Arnold lineup so that's 12 guys like that so they could say happy with 12 been cool but you should open it up toward the guys who didn't win a show but they have X amount of points or over X amount of points maybe you can add them to the show you know I'm saying because some people one way or another somebody to get in that down yeah you either if even they're not gonna win a show they're gonna get seconds like two or three times and you know I'm saying they would be deserving to go and won't be going or maybe the year you give away the top point earner you know gets a special you know championship prize like you know super series prize or something like that for you know being a little consistent because when the Olympia doesn't mean you'd have the most points because you might have someone else who outpoint you because they won the Arnold they won when you're pro or you know something like that. Well yeah and then I'm sure that some company would love to be the sponsor of that right I mean that would be a very prestigious award right so you know I mean that would be incredible.

I think it's a great idea, Tony. I think that's a great idea. It's all kind of the way to make it interesting. You know what I'm saying? Like I tell everyone all the time, we are one of the few organizations organized. So we take color to sport because sport have set rules and regulations that everyone in the building can follow. So we have to say we either, like a paddock, which that sounds too weak. I mean, you know, there's a few things that we could do to put a standard in our sport. In our event or whatever. That way, we can physically call this sport. We have a point system now. If you learn play while you place. And then a way for you to determine how you place. You don't say, like we have pre-judging, we have Microsoft for the B-350. Right? I mean, but how is it really? Is it 50, 50, really? I mean, you know what I'm saying? How do we know other than that's what the judges are telling? So in other words, in other words, you know, the judges might, you have to come up with some kind of way where just like yesterday, we watched in the Super Bowl. You know, somebody goes out of bounds, or somebody, you know, all sides of France started, whatever. The rest calls it, but we can see it as well. Cause we know the game. And that's what's missing from our sport. People that's been following this sport for 10, 15 years can walk out of a bodybuild and so they know what the hell just happened. Right? So that's where I think we can improve and make it better for everyone, fans, athletes, promoters, you know. I mean, you know, with the whole world of technology, now you can even throw in, you know, letting audience, and after the judges picked the top six, the audience picked the winner, cause you know, everybody can text it in. So I mean, we got to take now to take it to that level. Think how much interest, how much more interesting it would be if you got 10, 20,000 people voting on the internet and then plus the 34,000 people voting in the arena. That would be intense. I agree with 10, just ideas, you know. That would be good ideas. Sorry, getting the pride of money up to, you know, 34, 5, and we started voting, started getting some serious response. People are going to start wanting to see this stuff that we can just time it up. I mean, we got awesome bodies. So that's what making people want to come. But you still got people leaving the arena. I mean, I go travel all over the world and people are like, we don't understand how this person, what do I make? Well, I'm on the stage. I don't know either. I mean, you know what I'm saying? So some kind of way it needs to be a better connection between what's going on. So everybody can, you know, so it can be a real fan of the sport, not just a fan of the athlete. Right. You're right. You're 100% right. And I hope that the, hope that the power is to be or someone's listening to this and maybe you could make a proposal and that's how the sport evolves and changes for the better, because you know what really is happened. The sport really has changed. But it's the most of the changes occurred in the women's divisions. They've added a three or four new women's divisions over the last couple of years and the sport. And the numbers have ballooned. And I think that while they added a men's physique division, I really think they've done very little to help the bodybuilding evolve. And I think that, yeah, I think we need some more creativity in there and I think to make it more interesting, I'm not saying to make it like WWE wrestling, but once you get a point system or, you know, I think they were doing it. They had the right idea when they tried to bring that challenge round in back in the day, but it just wasn't executed right, so it did kind of screwed everything. It's all going to draw an out. Actually everyone shouldn't have been able to, they just, they just didn't, it just lasted too long. It should have been more like, you know, some kind of way to cut a short and then synchronize it a little bit and then it didn't, it probably was because that, the premise for that is that's a great idea. You know what I'm saying? But I think I think the basic stuff needs to be like, everyone needs to hit the pose, the mandatory pose is the same way. You can have your own versions when you do your pose in routine and on that. But I'm saying when you're being judged, we need to be hit at the same time, because you know everybody be on. Yeah, waiting for that, you know. Yep. You understand, make it more official. That's all, you know, even powerless and they have to pick it up and they have to hold it for a certain amount of seconds. I mean, hey, if we have nothing, nothing, official. Nothing, Vora. So this gives us a couple of things that are official that everyone in the building could see. And then, you just have to do that to make it a deal. I mean, I just got to make it more exciting. Maybe, I don't know, maybe not. But when the audience can know what's going on, not be guessing, like right now, the only time you know, or you think you know, it's not how they put somebody in the middle. So if we put somebody in the middle, then you think, oh, that person must be first place. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, that's all we got. That's all we got. You're a, you're a, you're a, you're a, you're a, that's all we got. Well, I am, I think every, the fans are going to be looking forward to seeing you in some other venue other than the way they usually see you, which is either guest posing or up on a body, but I say, you're going to be functionally lifting at Bros. vs. Bros. 10. The X-Man takes on the world at Sunday, March 18th, at the West County Health and Fitness Center. That's going to be in St. Louis, Missouri. Tony Freeman will challenge the world. 225 pounds on the bench press for reps for $2000. I'm excited to see you. Tony, will you be at the Arnold Classic? We have a booth. I will be there. It's a pretty much what I would be there. I'm looking forward to being at the Arnold being an audience. Being, you know, not all died at that. I'm a people who, you know, see me at, you know, 300, 300, 300 plus. Hopefully we'll get to see that. I've been late and so so long. So yeah, don't be that. We're going to have a great time. I mean, that's like the, the guys are lifting. That's like the thing for the year. That's what you've got. You know, if you're in this game, you need to be, I know you're going to miss being at stage, but at the same time, I'm sure you're not going to miss the fact that you're not going to be dying. You can actually enjoy the Arnold for once in your life. And I'm sure. I'm going to take note of this show. I'm going to really, you know, be able to fit down a deserved of a fix and take notes, because you know, these are all the young guys. I've got to be dealing with my plan on sticking around. So yeah. And they're looking so impressive. So, you know, this is going to be like my, you know, I've been sitting there and analyze the situation. And you know, get my game plan together, because you know, some really good talent out there. This certainly is. And once again, you can see the X-Man at the X-Pane booth at the Arnold Classic or two weeks later. On Sunday, March 18th, it froze, verse, pros, 10, Tony, always a pleasure to talk to you. Thanks. Thanks, Dave. That was the X-Man, Tony Freeman. And he'll be in St. Louis, Missouri, Sunday, March 18th. For Bro's verse, pros, 10, always a classic. I love to talk to this guy. He's one of my favorite guys in the industry. And I've said it before. I'll say it again. I had to pick a physique that I wanted to have, or I would want to possess it would be the X-Man's physique, because he is the X-Man. He's got the small ways. He looks athletic. You got to watch people in person looking at this guy. When he walks through the crowd, people just look at him. And you know what people like? They can respect his physique. It's not big and freakish, but it's impressive enough that people say, that's what I want to look like. And that what body-blings all about, it's about creating a physique that other people would like to have themselves. It's the superhero, ultimately. And Tony Freeman and my eyes is a superhero in this industry. And one of the good guys who gives back, and I'm looking forward to seeing them both at the Arnold, and then two weeks later at Bros. vs. Bros. 10. For now though, we're at a time. Until next week, remember. With heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. We muscle radio is a presentation of RXMuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. To the next week at the same time. For another round with Dave Pulmamo, only on heavy muscle, going to film the air.

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is no strange to this show. He just turned pro at the NPC USA Championships winning the super heavyweight class. My pleasure to welcome back Henry Jackson III. How you doing, Dave? Hey, last time we talked to you, just won the Junior USA overall in 2016. No one knew who you were. You were new face in the block and then we said, I said to you, I said, you'll be a pro one day and you finally are congratulations. Yeah, thank you. It has been a long journey. I remember stepping into the NPC scene back in 2015. You know, giving myself three years of getting my pro car and hey, in three years it happened. So, hey, what can you say, man? That's a success story. Most people doesn't happen for that quickly. Yeah. I know, but I'm lucky. I look at God. Yeah. Well, you got some terrific talent as well. You went through a very stressful prep because you were moved. You moved recently to California. You were looking for job. You didn't need to go. Then you were working three jobs. Tell us what your schedule was like leading up to the show. Oh, man. Yeah. So moved out here in October. I immediately landed a job at a GNC store. Maybe a month after that. I landed a job with 24 hours fitness, personal training. And on top of that, I started driving Uber. So my day was usually started like five, 30 in the morning with my five, 30 client. And then I would go, I would check out it 24 hour fitness around nine o'clock work at GNC from like 10 to four. Drive lift from like 4 to 9. And then I would train from 9 to midnight at 9. Yeah. And I was freaking scheduled at this. Yeah. Yeah. It was insane. I would do that. Maybe three to four times a week. And on the other days, I'll try to catch up on risk. And it was insane. So that was particularly my daily schedule. I love guys who would have strong work ethic. I think that's great. And I think you're going to be a true success down the road. You're not afraid to work part. But what was the reason for working three for three jobs? It just needed the money? Yeah. Yeah. The money. So a spot of those expensive, right? Yes. Very expensive. Anybody who's competed in bodybuilding knows how expensive it could be. That's what I had to do. And on top of that, I maybe had maybe three clients I trained online. And that was another source of income I had. Yeah. That's great. I always say diversify. I have multiple streams of income. And that's the greatest way to earn a living because of one's drives up. You got the other one the full back on. And obviously you're not afraid to work hard. And that's cool. Another thing you actually endured during this prep is it's been very hot out there in California. What was the record attempt so far that they had the highest was 117? Wow. Now that wouldn't sound so bad until you hear the fact that Henry has no air conditioning in his house. Yes. Yes. So air conditioning broke. So you have been dealing with that throughout the whole heat wave. And what can I say is we found ways to make it work at MIT. You wet your t-shirt. You get up under a fan. And it cools you off pretty good man. But during the day I make sure of out the house around the AC. Because during the days just too high. At MIT in California it cools down in the valley pretty good. So it cools down for 97. Yeah. Yeah, 97. You know, high 80s. It's pretty bearable. But man during the day is no way. No wonder how you got so in it. You never stopped sweating for 24 hours a day. But actually stress my body out man. I just my body was responding the way it usually has and we kicked my car deal but from like one hour and it was two hours and it was three hours for a few days Wow, who you know is looking to do three hours a car, you're right? So but that's what we had to do for like maybe the last three or four days of the trip and it was brutal and so but we pretty much had to shop shop the fat off my body for it all so I bet you like doing the three hours a car because at least you got to sit in the gym and the air conditioning, right? Exactly Hey, Henry Henry's like should I do three hours of cardio at the cool gym or do I have to go home to my girlfriend and sit 97 degree heaps you know with a fan blowing on me with a wet t-shirt To me does it sounds like the cardio sounds way more appealing to me Yeah, cardio for the wind man. I was gladly doing cardio That you Yeah, you had a real tough battle in that super heavyweight class, huh? Yeah, I did I remember coming back from the pre-judging and it was six of us and Ron he was in the center square, but you know I didn't really like that to turn me because it was six of us I kind of figured you know maybe they just wanted us up that way So it was six guys and there's really no center. You know, so you know I didn't leave pre-judging discursor anything I knew it was close By the lead pre-judging defeated or thinking I had lost you know the supers or whatever so me and Phil We just kept going in to come in even tighter Saturday for the night showing us what we did and it paid off, you know, so yeah I think it was I think I believe it was a three-point decision because I just interviewed Ryan yesterday and You know, he was thrilled to be second but Was close and could have gone on either way and so getting past him was probably the toughest valley had all night Now when you got to the overall did you think you had a good shot at winning that? Oh, yeah, I did I felt pretty confident going to the overall because even though I felt like I saw the light-heavy backstage but I know going into the show Lucas favorite it and he was center stage the whole time during the You know the overall so I figured you know Would loop in my teammate I'll just you know better a lot with him Post with him and overall and maybe I could enter him out, but um yeah when they called When they called for winners they're like heavy one But yeah, I did feel pretty confident going into the overall you know whenever you make it to the overall it's always Exciting especially with me already knew I got the pro cards right it's good to some of bonus Yeah, I Yeah, I don't think anyone really knew who's gonna go because Luke who won the heavyweight class obviously A lot of people were you know kind of favoring then Shane in the light heavyweight who won the overall was probably the most condition of everyone up there And it looks like they judged his weight with conditioning. I mean he was just a grainy grainy heart so That's what happens with these lighter weight guys they got to make weight so they're like you know There's peel to the bone like trying to you know get into that weight class and sometimes that condition I always say conditioning when shows man You're big guy that you're six foot two two 63 on stage. I mean that that's a lot of mass on your body on a really big frame You have and you probably can you probably can grow what would you like to see yourself go up to eventually what what weight You think would look good on you? I think for me like Too 85 will be a great stageway for me. I think about 15 more pounds if you can't Because like you said I'm a taller guy still have some gaps of feel With my physique so I think for me to match like that fuller look that some shorter guys have I will have to add about 15 to any more pounds of stage Wait yeah Right now this what we're gearing up to do with me and feel goal is to do the California probe Makes you're made that's the goal. You know that was you guys a planet Yes, so let's see Yeah, that's that's why for a lot of I could I could be competitive on the growth stage around here Yeah, I think so I told Phil this you know, but by the way is your coach you know I told my signal congratulations because he got you and he had Luke so that was you know two winners there The USA that was great for him but you know Sometimes it's it's you gotta have someone who keeps you you're focused and obviously You know, you I don't think you had a coach did you for the juniors? I did not I don't have a let's entail The amateur Olympia That's an interesting I'm glad you brought that up last year I thought I was gonna see what nationals, but you actually decided to do the the The amateur Olympia at the mr. Olympia week and last year And you won the supers there but you didn't get the overall and so you didn't get the pro card, but What was the reasoning behind picking that show? Yes, um decided to do amitro it was mainly Phil brought it up. I didn't really know anything about the amitro Olympia Because they just decided to hold it in Vegas that year right I Didn't know anything about it. I knew a few guys that were doing it self-shall who I competed against at junior a say He was supposed to do the show, but he ended up doing North Americans Went into overall there. Yeah getting his pro card But yeah, it was mainly Phil's suggestion and you know I thought it was a good idea You know, you know, it was first amateur Olympia over the year in the states Yeah, and I thought it would bring some good exposure. So I knew it was gonna be a tough show being the fact that the pro card was going to be given to the overall winner But you know, I took up the challenge and you know, it did things in pan out, but You know, it was still still a good showing. Yeah, I don't get it No, you look good. I mean you want the class obviously, but how can you mean go on and do the national's after that? It was Financial okay, you're moved that's when you moved to right yeah Exactly and also yeah, I had decided to move so it was a whole combination of things You know moving Financial wanted to focus on getting out here which I got set was very stressful Where did you move from? I moved from Georgia Columbus Georgia which is maybe Our South Atlanta. Yeah, now what major decided to move out there at California? I moved out here because I met my girlfriend in Georgia she works in news My name is Lita Uko, but she ended up landing a reporter job out here in LA which is where she's from So I decided to come with you know, it's California's LA did exposure for bodybuilders So I moved out here with her a week after Well, it's one of two weeks after the emptier of Limpia Wow, so yeah, it's kind of like a split decision I made because at first I was going to stay in Georgia for a little while then come out here But you know, I was like wow wait, you know, so I studied California's expensive too, isn't it? It is it is so way more than Georgia Yeah, yes, it's like the rent is like almost triple the price in Georgia That's crazy, yeah, but I guess you got a good job so you can't turn that down You know, yeah, I mean we're luckily enough with our setup since Lita's from LA We moved in with her parents, so we're saving money. Oh, all right. That's always because that's smart Very smart. Exactly. So yeah, what's your train at out there? The gym I train at us is I go to those gym vines a lot Goal gym in North Hollywood and the old powerhouse gym that's out here in the valley, but it's called a crunch fitness now Right, but you powerhouse, but they still have all the old powerhouse security That people don't realize they think oh you're in LA you can go to Venice gold anytime you want Yeah, as long as you could line it up with one of the traffic is not it is almost impossible, right? Exactly the four or five is terrible. So you can't go during rush hour turn out now And everybody knows rush hour traffic in LA last we're like maybe five or six hours so that's one of these That was another reason why I went to those late because I can get there in 30 minutes. Of course If you went during prime time though you would you would take your four hours to get there You know yeah exactly. He's you take like two hours to get there. So I will always wait till maybe like 7.38 o'clock There are pretty minutes training come right back and I was good to go There is one have you been have you trained yourself at gold? Did I mean you worked out when I ate the guys there or any of the trainers there Not at all I've been training by myself as guys like I'll see Sergio Flitz Son rodent was those guys seeing me late In there at night training solo and the it was funny because when I got the award for super heavies Son rodent presented me the award. I've seen him several times in there late at night doing two of it Sort of Arnold and the Olympia he was like hey man. I told you to pay off all the late nights You know you working hard time So those really cool for him to present me the award and just him seeing like what I've done What all the late sessions to get there. It's it was very Yeah, words can't I can't describe it. It was very cool very cool well Henry Congratulations on the huge when it could have happened to nice a guy I've seen you kind of evolved in this industry and now you're a pro and Looking forward to seeing what kind of damage you could do in that pro level. I think your potential as I said last time two years ago Still unlimited yeah, thank you. Thank you Dave. I'm very I'm looking forward to just Making my mark and supporting now progressing and just making improvements where I need to make them and you know Just doing damage so we'll see we'll see next year. You're well. I think you're gonna be a very dangerous guy on the I could be pro level in the future how old you now by the way? I'm 27. Oh, you're still a young man. All right cool You got your whole career head. You still Yeah, it's funny because like I was telling you earlier When I first started competing NPC at the age of 24 I wrote down in this composition book that I've written all my goals and everything down and that it I'll give myself three years to get the pro card like I was 24 to Tom on 27 now So it just goes and show man, you know with just hard work and just staying consistent You can they can be done, you know, so what does it say you're a little golf-book about winning the Olympia How many years you give yourself about oh I said give myself to the age of 30 three more years All right three more years another three year plan. That's right. Yes, sir. Let's see if Henry's three year plan pans out For now though on day polymer will add a time this until next week until next time Check it out see you later

My name is Tau Amini and I am the CEO and founder of Ulysses. The protein, bakery with low sugar, ketogenic and high protein in each and every item. I specialize in making brownies, cookies and cupcakes. As of 2021, we will have the variety of traditional, gluten-free and protein to choose from of every product. Check us out at www.Ulyssesbapyru.com. And then also check us out on our donation by the word. All proceedings will go to the wheelchair bodybuilding community with your order. Thank you for checking us out. Take care. Welcome back to another RX muscle spotlight. Today's guest, man I've known for quite a number of years. You follow Facebook and bodybuilding. You've probably seen them on the air. You've just wrote a book too. We're going to talk about that. Tau to pay it. Welcome to the show. Thanks Dave. It's a real pleasure to be here. And Tyler, my producer loves your black, your blue sky. You have behind you. It says it's beautiful. That's nice. Thanks. You want to make sure that your body pops. I said, you got to make sure the lighting is perfect. That's exactly right. Tau, how long have you been training for now? It's been about 40 years now. That's getting close to it about 33 years. And you know what? The thing that really amazes me is that you still have that drive and passion to get to the gym and try to be better than you were before and compete. A lot of guys just can't sustain that. Or their bodies at least can't sustain it that long. What do you think is your secret to your success? I think part of it was in my 30s, I'd noticed a lot of the fellows that were a few years older than me had really started kind of dropping like flies due to injuries. Yeah. And I realized that you had to start listening to your body, which meant maybe it meant going lighter once and a while. Maybe you're not squatting or deadlifting anymore. Like if you look at Dexter Jackson as his career progressed, he definitely changed the way he trained over time. And then there's a genetic component as well, I think. Sure. Now how old are you right now? I think I'm the same vintage as you. I'm 52. I'm 53. You're a little older than you. But we're in the same age category as you like that. I like to say now, you have obviously been competing a lot. You have a very good story. Good enough story. You actually wrote a book about it. I remember you wrote a screenplay a number of years ago. You had sent it to me. Give me the premise of the story and why you felt you needed to put it on paper. Well, I started writing it really just as something that was cathartic. I wrote it for myself. I really didn't expect it to do anything. And then I'd mentioned to a couple of friends. I'm writing this book. They wanted to take a look at it and the feedback was tremendous. This is a great story. This could help people. I thought at first that they were being polite. Just like you would take your kids drawing and putting on the fridge and say, wow, that's fantastic. I just thought they were being nice, but the more people I spoke to, the more they said that my story really spoke to them because a lot of people have challenges in life. So I just kept going and then started shopping it with different publishers. And it took about four and a half years, but got it published. You're, I'll give you this. You're very persistent. So I mean, I think that's part of your success. It's just stubbornness. And you're, look, you're not going to fail. You're going to keep going and going to succeed. And that's been a story of life. Give us, give us your stories. What's the premise of the book? Tell us what you've overcome because I think people can get sucked into that story. They're going to want to read the book once you kind of tell them what it's about. Sure. Well, it really started off when I was quite young. I was five years old and my father had a pretty substantial drinking problem. And she decided at one point that in a bit of a drunken stupor that he should take his own life. And unfortunately, that next morning I discovered his body. And when you're five years old and you find your father after he commits suicide, it's going to affect you. And it's going to affect the way you're wired. And everything changed from that point on for me. And I never felt normal or like the other kids. And I had, this was in the 70s, like 1974. People didn't talk about anything. They just brushed you under the rug and. No way you go. I was in school the next day. So by the time I was in my teens, I was pretty messed up. And my mother didn't know what to do with me anymore. She did her best. But she basically said, kids, time for you to go. And so I found myself homeless. And I was 16. Wow. And you must have been pretty good. So if you're about to kick the house in 16. Well, I just wasn't listening and she didn't know what to do with me anymore. Were you getting in trouble to the point where you were getting arrested in stuff like that? Nothing like that. But I wasn't going to school. I wasn't listening. And she really didn't know what to do. What were you doing during the day? If you weren't going to school, we were hanging out with friends and doing drugs. And what were you doing? Yeah, no drugs. But definitely hanging out and trying to get in as much trouble as I could. I didn't have a lot of respect for anybody or anything at that time. So what was the, what changed you? What was the, well, I had done. I discovered bodybuilding after reading Arnold's book education of a bodybuilder when I was about 18. And that really helped me have some purpose. But unfortunately as I got older, and I think this happens to a lot of us in bodybuilding that we become so focused on just the bodybuilding. I had thought at that point that it would be kind of the end all cure all to all my problems all my demons. Right. If I could only win this show and do that. And so I just, I just spiral down to a point of not tearing. And you know, if you hang out with the wrong people long enough and start doing the wrong things, you find yourself in a bad way. And I, I spiraled all the way down to all, found myself incarcerated. So what, what did you do that you got like that for? Well, I was training a bunch of fellows that were pretty connected individuals. They started at giving me little jobs to do and they asked me to deliver a package. And I delivered this package. I didn't ask what was in it. I didn't care. To be honest, I really didn't care, but it turned out to be about $50,000 worth of mess. Oh my God. Oh, I was always sure. And I got busted with that because one of the fellows turned out to be an informant. Oh, so I got, yeah, I got pulled over about a walk away from my house. And it was very quickly escorted. Oh my God. How long is that point? I was in my early 40s at that point. Oh, so this is, oh, this is much later than you were already. Yeah, yeah, much later. Wow. And yeah, it was, but that was the turning point because, you know, like, so you really wasn't. And so you were really pretty messed up for most of your life. I mean, you know, is what you're saying. And this is all you trace it all back to the death of your dad. When you were five, when you were five years old and you found him, you know, it's funny. It's not funny. It's actually very sad, but a very close friend of mine, Cole Hansik. I was very good friends with his father died of something heart related at about 33 years of age. And this kid called his son was embedded with him and found them dead in the morning. I mean, he didn't commit suicide, but he was dead. And it messed up his life. Became drug addict. Always, you know, heroin on and off. And just recently, he passed on fortunately. And a lot of people in the body building, community knew him because he got into body building everything. But he couldn't, he couldn't pull himself out of it. You know, and a lot of stories we hear like that were got people could just not get past that trauma that they, you know, suffered earlier in life. And it took you a long time. So what did 40 years old would that go in a jail? Was that the bottom line for you? That was it. That was it. I mean, I was doing well in competition, but my, you know, my vision had become so skewed as to what really was important in life. So I had a decision to make at that point. It was either roll over and die or fight, you know, and I decided to fight. And, you know, body building, where it almost kind of destroyed me now saved me because it was my, it was my sanity to go into train in this world so much. Doesn't make sense. But you walk into a gym. There's 200 pounds. You can either lift it or you can't. You know, it's black, it's very black and white. So I just slowly slowly started to rebuild everything. But the thing that was the most important was that I learned that I had to be accountable. Okay. What happened as a child? That was horrible. Being kicked out. That was horrible. But every decision passed that I made that decision. You have, you have to own it. And once you own that number one, people can't weaponize it against you. And number two, it's freeing because you have to say, yeah, I did that. Now I need to be better. And that's the toughest thing because in our society, we tend to be nowadays. You see a lot of people, very sort of victim mentality, nothing's their fault. But really bad things happen, everyone. Yeah. How you deal with them? How you deal with them is up to you. Yeah. No, I mean, I can relate to that, you know, I, what the jail obviously for, you know, selling drugs and, you know, and I had to deal with it and accept it. And when I got out, I decided that wasn't going to be something I was going to do anymore. And I moved on and I, you know, I made myself a more productive person. But I can relate to that 100% and ask you, when you're in jail, how much time do you went up doing? Did you actually have to serve time? I did have to serve a little bit of time. But I was very fortunate. I had a very good lawyer. And I was there for only a couple of months. But it was a couple of months in the maximum security. Oh, you don't want to do that. That's not what I'm. No way. No. No. Because of who I was associated with, they, they took no chances. So I was in lockdown 23 hours a day. It was, uh, that's crazy. It's an interesting, interesting experience that gives you a lot of time to think. Sure. Now, we're doing like 6,000 pushups a day. How are you dealing with that? Pushups like they didn't let us use the weights very often. So it was pushups. I was trying to do chins off the end of my bed. Body weight squat, crunches. What have, yeah. Yeah. But it's hard to treat. It's hard to train on baloney sandwiches. Absolutely, balay, man. Yeah. That's the thing. You know, it's funny. When I was in there, I was in a federal prison. It was, it was like summer camp compared to what you were in. But you're, like when you're only in for a couple of months. Now, when you got out, I mean, now what do you do? Because you're, I, when you, you actually, are you a convicted felonel? Is that something that you have on your record? Yeah, I was, I was convicted. It took years actually. It went through the courts for about five years. Right. And I was very fortunate because in that five years, I took a, you know, a lot of positive steps. So by the time we had the trial, even though I was convicted, the judge felt I was better off in society. So I had two years of house arrest and then I did a lot of speaking, speaking to youth groups and that sort of thing. So it actually worked out. I was very lucky, very blessed indeed. Explain what the term shoulder down means. Because that's the name of your book. And I know that was very important to you. And, or, you know, I think it was a sports coach here as I told you that. That's right. In, I had a coach in junior high name, Sid Prisansky, who was just an absolute jewel of a person. And one day I was playing basketball, basketball practice. And we were doing one on one drills and this kid, he was a little older and bigger than me. And he kept pushing me away from the hoop. And I'm throwing up these horrible shots. And, you know, the coach looks at me because Todd, what are you doing? And I go, wow, coach, you want to let me get anywhere close to the hoop. And he said, let me show you. You got to put your shoulder down and you got to take the space. You got to own it. So you throw a fake. He goes through the fake. He's put your shoulder down and you go through him. You don't give him a choice. You put that shoulder down and you go. And I tried it and it worked. And that just resonated with me in life for many years. And I remember sitting in that jail cell. And here in Coach K's voice, say to me, okay, now you need to put your shoulder down. You have to move forward. You get through the obstacle. You don't stop. It was a great lesson. He was a fantastic man. I still talk to him today. Wow, that's cool. That's cool that you still talk to him. Yeah, and I think he's talking to that coach. Not many people's coaches are still alive. But you're not such an array. You know, yeah, no kidding. So now you decided to get back to competition, obviously, which is probably was pretty hard initially. You placed fourth at the Navi universe last year. Are you still going? Are you still trying to win that master's universe? Is that still the goal? You know, I'd like to. And the reason is when I was a kid and I read that book that Arnold wrote, he really spoke a lot about the universe and what it meant to win it. And the universe title to the average person is a title that is recognized. Even though the limpias, the highest you can go, the average person has heard of them history universe. And I just, I love the history of it. And so I've been invited to England this year to compete in a universe. I made do some IFB shows before that as the season is coming up as long as the they actually have the shows. So I still enjoy competing. But the reasons are a lot different now. Now it's more about the challenge and keeping myself motivated and showing people that, you know, 45, 50 years old is not necessarily a death sentence to your training and you can still keep going. Yeah, I think I tell people, I said, look, I don't have no desire to compete because I'm not improving anymore. But I still train. You know, my wife's like, how do you do it? Because we're so busy with work and we have three kids. And by the time the 11 o'clock at night rolls around, you know, she's exhausted. She's sleeping a bit. I'm in the, I'm in my game room with, I don't have a lot of weights, but I have enough to do my thing. And I work out, you know, four or five days a week because I feel good doing that. And that's part of the whole mindset. You know, if you love what you do, you're always doing it. And I think a lot of people don't love it that much and they do it because they wanted validation or it made them feel good about themselves. But they didn't really love it. And if you, if you love it, you'll never stop. That's what I tell people exactly exactly how. And I still get as excited about a good workout now. As I did when I was 18 years old, you know, look at the pump. Look at the arms. Look at the arms. So, you still get, look, you know, I'm very impressed. You still have an awesome physique, you know, you really don't show your age at all. And, you know, Wednesday universe, what's the day? November 14th. All right, well, best to lock at that universe. You'll keep us updated. Where can people pick up the book shoulder down? It's available through Amazon in the United States, Canada. Okay. United Kingdom and Australia right now. And I'm sure the story is way more detailed than you get into all the great details in that book. So I haven't read the whole thing yet. But I want to implore people if you want to be motivated and you want to, you know, if you haven't a rough time in your life, this might be the book for you to pick up and my change your life. I appreciate that day very much. No, it's been a pleasure knowing you all these years. I'm going to talk about the time that you've been going to have a good time. Thank you. Thank you so much. All right, guys. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of our Ex-Muscle Spotlight. I'm Dave Palombo. For Todd Payette. We'll see you next time.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo. There's 30-year-to-year-to-row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car pop tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. On day polunk though, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavor systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Iron Rage. I'm the polunko joined as always by Lee Priest. How is it going over there in Australia during these... We are talking. You're lucky I checked my phone in the morning day. I said to myself, Lee, you deserve a sleep in today. You know, Dave hasn't sent a message for the show. The alarm went off the fire. I said, you know what? I better check the phone. And you're in a shallow 30 minutes. You know what? Actually reminded me to actually text you. Tony Dario texted me. I'm supposed to get him on tomorrow for a little interview. And then I said, oh no, Lee, you guys got to text Lee, holy shoot. I'm easy to forget, you know. Tell me. Tell me if you've heard this before. Did you ever see the Tasmanian devil? I don't know. Just wonder if you ever heard that before. I thought it was the Tasmanian devil. I did. I did want to say this. I did want to say this. This. Good. Have you ever seen the Tasmanian devil, by the way? I was actually in Tasmania. But this. Yes, I've seen many of them. You never seen one? No, I never seen one in person. I heard they're nasty little buggers. They are. I think they wanted a thing out of all the animals. I think they got one of the strongest bites on them, like pound for square inches. They can just bite through bone. I'll send you some photos. I've got some photos on my phone. I've been Tasmanian devil. When they didn't look like that, doesn't quite look like the cards. No, it doesn't look like a snake. They're nasty. They're nasty. I went to a little, they look like a little pug. They look like a little pug dog with a pointing nose and think, fuck and teeth. Do they run around the wild? Can you actually see them? Yeah, wander around the wild. I think that Tasmania would, a lot of the zoos he have them and stuff. You'll see them at the zoos. And there's actually a place not far from me, probably an hour and a half drive. It's called Ozzy Ark. And then they sort of helped the koalas and stuff. They would breathe them up there. And they've actually got the Tasmanian devil up there. They would have got a big place. It actually got up there and spend an eye. And you know, see what a breeding program of the Tasmanian devil? Sounds like a horror movie doesn't it? People were looking at the picture right now. That's scary as hell, what to me up. You go camping for the night, the Tasmanian devil's snake and strap. It looks like a little pug dog that's turned into a Hulk dog. It looks like a big rat is what it looks like to me. I don't know. You know, I was in Tasmania for one day when I did my tour of Australia in 2012. I went down there with Xavier Wills. We stated his house for the day and I was actually at a seminar at a hardcore gym down there. But I was only there for less than 24 hours. So I didn't really get a chance to go to school. What gym did you get? Was that slow to house gym? Yes. Slow to house gym. Absolutely. Yeah. It was slow to house gym. I was slow to house gym. Yeah. I was slow to house gym. Yeah. Why ain't any brother around that gym? Actually, sadly, he's back in jail. Oh, is he really? He decided to lose his plot and he got mad and went back to a pug down there and shot left with a gun. Oh, really? Yeah, that moment laps in that. That was a high score gym. That was a seriously high score. Like scary high score gym, right? Yeah, the great guys, I was too proud. So they run the powerlifting in order to use the put on shows. But Tasmania actually is a great place. They got the port off. That's where a lot of convicts stayed down there. And if you go around, it's really very historic. My grandmother came with me once when I went to Tasmania and you go to these places where the BD's old brick homes at the convicts built and when they built them, they put their fingerprints in the bricks. Oh, really? Let's just say, coming home from Tasmania, my grandmother's suitcase weighed about $0.60 kilos because she won the bring some bricks home and really is too strong some bricks. They're on the leaning. Yeah. Like, I had relatives that lived down there. But Tasmania's sort of like, down in the south is like, they see, they're really pretty. Tasmania's kind of like. So the gallages of the league, those those people who live there. There's actually a good movie. If you want to see a good sort of horror movie, like, you know, wrong turn and all those sort of movies, there's one called the dying breed. It's about Tasmania and this in-bred family that kills people and that's pretty interesting. Just that I want to watch lead at Nathan Freigotta sleep now. The Tyler Antony is a watch list, yeah. The dying breed is nothing like watching a girl get raped over a table by a guy like this. I got a shit. Yeah, I have to think who's the sick mind was to thought the movie up. But it probably is based on a true story. I just look at the thing and I just watched the movie thinking she looks like she's enjoying it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Only you would think that. Just go with it. If you try and find them, that's what they're at this one. You don't find it. You just go with it. That's right. There's someone that's been raped many times. Is that your stupid Steve? Steve wouldn't let me out. Is that the loot? Yeah. What I saw on those screams that came out of the state that you had to come help me fuck now. I was just going to ask you about people who have what different bodybuilders jobs were coming up obviously and we know what your job was. So I don't want to say anything, Dave, but they used to be a famous saying to get a head you got to give it. Yeah, I don't know what that is. You lived in Venice, California. You trained in a heyday there where all the bodybuilders were there. Now Grant, a lot of those top pros had contracts and so that was how they supported themselves. But for the bodybuilders, and there were a lot of upcoming guys that were training there who wanted to make it. So to speak, what were guys doing for a living back then? Because when I even got a California in the 90s, I said, you know what, I can't live here. No one works. I said, how am I going to live here? I'm going to be poor. I said, there's no work ethic. What do people do for money there? A side for that. A side for the possible. The gay from paint that was going on. Did people really have jobs? I know Quarmea was a balancer at a club. I'm not sure because these are what I used to wonder because I lucky enough what I first got there and I met Ed, Ed Centford, Ooster, Weider. I was lucky enough to get a contract which got me by. How much did he ask you to question? How much was a contract for Lee Priest when he first arrived? I mean, you didn't do anything. My very first one was like two and a half thousand a month. That was pretty good for a guy who never did anything. I mean, in terms of the AFVV. Why? That wasn't bad because rent was still cheap back then. It was 250 bucks. Yeah, so wasn't bad. It got me by. But I was always one because I see these, you know, and as you get more money eventually, like I was never into the, you know, I tried to say, grow four months twice. I didn't waste money on a lot of money on drugs. I just kept it for mainly bills and shit. There's sometimes you've got to get ready for a show. I would be more could you buying more food and stuff like that. But then I'd see these images come to town and they'll be like, I'm taking all these growth. I'm doing this. I'm doing that. The driving a nice car. I'm thinking, hmm. Something's going on here. I thought some people should be that way out the back. This was, I think this was even before the black man days of the magazines. I used, I knew Steve wasn't finding this. Yeah, I put down on. But yeah, but the people who I say, I did gave a pay, but this is, I can honestly, look, if I did, I tell you, I don't give a shit. Yeah, sadly I did it. Yeah. But this is what, this is what would upset me because I used to think to myself, what's wrong with me. I was like, why did I win it? And I beautiful. And I beautiful enough. And I hate it. Oh, no, never asked you to do gay for pay there. No. Really? I'm very upset by this. I'm on my way. I wonder why the year you seem to be like the quintessential gay from pay, you know, a guy that they would hire. I, I thought so too, but you know, maybe a one white hair, you're, you know, get the big arm. Remember, remember, take Dixon that used to be in God. Oh, Dixon, we always did you go after me, you know? Yeah, it was, you know, Ted was there and he's the date that big personal trainer, Ray. Right. Really big, like, yeah, really big huge guy. Yeah. But Ted would always go, blunt to Ted, I say to me, yeah, sure, and I sky and that, but, you know, you know, you know, it more like a Sunday, I wouldn't fuck you or anything. Ah. Yeah. I like to think what it's guys, though, right? Yeah. And I'm like, what I make sense, I used to say that makes sense because my father's gay, so you're pretty much out like my father's. Ah, you know. But now, never, the only time is the only time I ever got money from a gay guy. You start used to email me and, you know, back in the email days before, I think, I'm not even my space was out yet. If you're like, Lee, can you come and flex your arms for me? If I bring some dumbbells, can you pump them up and pose them? No. Yes, but I like this, he has a like to see your arms. I said, we're going to fucking gym, I train at the gym. You can see, like lots of arms. Oh, now I want to see your aspects. That is this one, I'm very upset. Look, I don't do that type of stuff. Well, blah, blah, blah, I said, go to any gym. So one day I was at religion, which you know when you go to a religion, there's just the regulars, Eddie, Julie, and Xavier, Joe Gold, aren't you? And one day I was his guy, I never recognized before, and as I'm trained the way, when I'm a friend, Mark, I'm looking at this guy and he's sometimes been looking at me. No, no, no, no, no. But just trained the way in at the end, I'm just about to leave and go to the unsteasy. So you start coming down stairs, you're as highly as I say, oh, hi, you guys. I'm such and such, you know the one I said, oh, okay. Yeah, he goes, oh, yeah, he goes, oh, yeah, he was wonderful. He goes, he goes, I got something for you. I'm like, oh, he's got something for me. And he pulls you out of $1,000. And he goes, he's a thousand, he goes, he's a thousand dollars. He's a thousand dollars for letting me watch your train. I said, I didn't let you watch your train. I said, it's a public gym, I said, you know, you can do whatever you go. So I know he take it, take it, I really enjoyed that. So I said, oh, well, if you want to say I'm doing legs tomorrow. I can't. I can't. I can't. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But then he goes, then he goes, where you go? Now I said, I'm just going to fire house, then he goes, can I come? I said, well, if you want, I said, it's a public restaurant, so he came along. We just sat there, we just sat there talking. I found that he's like a businessman, married, has free kids. I think it, oh, I should have done something. I could have blackmailed this month. Yeah, yeah, exactly. See, at least buy him one. So then he brought me as breakfast. He brought me breakfast. And he goes, here's another $350 street with me. Wow. But you know, that's probably something. That's probably something that's definitely something. Because they give you money for doing nothing. And then before you know it, they're asking you to drop your due drawers. Yeah, what it was, fooding, there's the only fooding, $150. Like, got one morning for dinner. But then he did try and write that flag running. Go, it's all. I really like to watch you train again. Could you do it for a smaller fee? Oh, that's half a thousand. You're set the bar. You set the bar. You're set the bar. Yeah. Can't go back there. But I always thought, you know, what I should have done something. And then got photos of it and saying, you know, hey mate. Because I think it, what, it didn't even tell me the company he was with was like, some big law firm. You know, it was married with kids, but he's one of these little closet ones that likes to steal a man. We know of that. Those. Come, come to think of it. It didn't remind me of Steve. I don't think it was. I wasn't Steve because he did have on bacon and eggs. And he doesn't eat bacon or anything. So do you think a lot of guys would do in that back then? Do you think the work with guys that would legitimately work in? No, I think a lot would do in some stuff because they couldn't have been working because I used to train a fee. I'd go and train, I'd hang out. I'd just go past the gym to check the someone and these people would be more to me. So they didn't have a f**k. Now let's say I work in a night doing something, but that would be more to me than you seem down to fire house. You just see him wandering around body alive and all those stores and that's my hanging out in the back of the house. That's my hanging out in the back of the house. That's my sort of old days, something about it. Definitely, but I think a lot of them too, so I'll get it. That was like a big thing. But the gear sales mainly from the German tourists would come over from some way. Some reason the Germans had all the drugs and they would come over. Yeah. Then you'd see make friends of all the pro body builders. They come over in their little rental car two months later. Two months later they're driving the nice fucking Mercedes. They've got a place down on the beach. I had a good German connection back in the day. He used to fly over there with two cases for a start. I don't know how they got away with it. To be honest with you. No, the one because you see me at the car park sometimes at the gollet. They're just open up their trunk and they go to all these drugs in there. It's almost like a fucking garage. Say a lot of these body builders are back in the trunk. It's like, oh, one door's happening over there. They're all looking how to change a speed tie or I don't know the f**k's going on. You know what I thought when I went to the gollet in like the early 90s. I was like a free to even talk about drugs there because it seemed like it was like that was like, you know, the obvious place that had to be under cover, aging's in there. Wouldn't you say? Yeah, probably, but that's the thing because people are like, that's why I get annoyed when I'm on live on Instagram and people say, what drugs you take and what do you think of this cycle? You know, hand on hard. I can only say, when they're let me with me for eight months, whenever once they discuss drugs, by the occasionally see what you're taking because you put on the coffee table, but I never asked him how much you're taking or how often or people and I'll go to the fire house with other pros. We just never discussed it. It was just like, okay, we're not you're taking it, but I don't care what you're taking or how much, but today everyone's so into this, how much you're taking and what do you take and then it's like, right, why is this such a big thing on fucking drugs that's this or end all to be all? It's like, I used to have guys, Lee, I would have guys literally, you know, beg me to go out to dinner lunch. I'll treat you this now because they wanted to do was just pick my brain. You know, secret, I've wanted what the secret cycles were. No, it was serious. They thought there was some kind of magic formula because back in the 90s there was no internet. So you really couldn't research this stuff. So, you know, you could read a book. You could read the bill, Phillips, a wrap out of all the reference guide. No one knew how to play. I mean, I mean, I mean, I never even read any of those books. So I remember you used to get that antibiotic guide that would come out every year. These young kids were not at back the front in the back at head. I think that's tell me all that once fake. You look at the picture or you take one. This is like even when you say, you know, like people, you know, the door is combinations. I said, okay, I tell you what I take. You've done it said what he took and Paul said, what he took. I said, how does that help you? Everyone's different. I could respond great to test and decker. You might not. You might respond to the fucking proof and journal, whatever else. So the only way to really find out what works is the use small amounts in your own body. To see how you feel, how you react. If your strength goes up, if your whole water, I said, just go on a line going, oh, fuck, look at this cycle here. I'm going to try that one. I found Dorian's cycle is for making it like Dorian. You know, just a whole fucking mentality. I just don't get why this helps us test on drugs, but you can't. You can't get that ahead, then you want, I'm going to do my first cycle. I'm going to run some orals with such a such. What orals do you think I should take? I'm like, oh, I'm going to do this. The thing that drives you crazy, the new term I hate this term. I don't know why I just hate it. I'm cruising. I'm cruising on 150 million grams a week. I hate it. I hate that you too. Are you blasting right now or cruising away? I like the blast you in the head with a fucking nine mil. That's the thing that they don't come off. And they're too, when you come off, how long are you off for? Like at least four months. Because the longest they ever took it would be if I died of first show. The show was 12 to 16 weeks. That's when I was on. But then if I didn't ever show for another eight months, I'd come off for four or five six months and just steep like a fucking. But these guys for hours. Well, off for them was like 500 milligrams a week. And I don't get that. It's like, how can you say you're off when you're cruising? Yeah. That's not off. You're cruising for a bruising is what you're going to do. Well, I get asked a lot to about, oh, Lee, what about Clome at this net? And today's stay once I come off a cycle. I've never done any type of Clome or HcG or anything like that. When I'm off, I'm off. No, me towards if I'm dying 16 weeks or in that 14 week mark, I'm starting to come off and now you're on like I'm sick of taking it. I don't want to have a shot, you know, a week out from a show. I've done that before we have a shot in the shoulder. You're doing a shot. Fuck my shoulder. You can't train properly or you've got this fucking lump. You can look like an ED on stage. So I tried to, you know, slowly get off here and give him before the show was there. So I just didn't have those sort of problems where I think it was once. Which female bodybuilder wasn't when she was on stage. Had that big fucking lump. I was like oozing. It was like oozing. I think too. Didn't I risk having a problem on a good once? Have I been Irish one year? Yeah. Yeah. They kind of marked it down for it. I think right on a gluterist of my face? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Because when you're that lean, if you're having a shot somewhere, you say, She lost. I think the Arnold Plastic because of that. Yeah. I don't get why guys. It's like, you know, the shows, like they think, oh, I've got to be on my cycle. Like how the shows Saturday, I've got to have my shot Thursday. And that's like, you're not going to lose any size from fucking Thursday to Saturday. What? Why you going crazy? It's more psychological probably. It's like you some or else or something, you're going to get that crazy about it. But you have a back there to money thing. Now, I think there's a lot of weed stuff going on in Venice because I didn't see anyone collecting aluminium cans on the street. Otherwise you'd have to fight the homeless for that shit out there. I saw this device be a guy called Skates, a black guy, real funny guy, homeless. But oh, yeah, the funny story is he's the wash your car when you're in the gym for five or ten dollars. He was funny. So, the guy in the parking lot across the diagonal across the street, did he run the, was that the car? But that's what's before the proper car wash come along. I'm so curious to be a guy that had a hose on the bucket and I had a little easier in the back and come right here. People though, realize there was a, like a car detailing, sir. I was in the parking lot of golf. Yeah, the guy that does that now is gym. He's the same as gym. He's the train at world gym and stuff like that. He used to do the car washers there a lot. But before gym, it used to be Skates, just his homeless guy. I think I'll go even credit as always out there, trying to get stuff. But the thing was, Skates was funny because even if you get washing my car or giving five dollars, you know, had a lot of me, then he got the appointment day. I only had was, you know, like a couple of dollars. I think I had like two dollars on my get to me, like, what, two dollars? What are they going to do with two dollars? You know, they give me five. I got fucking hell. But then word used to get that because otherwise, walk to the gym sometimes when I lived on Venice Boulevard. I talked at a homeless, I'd come walking with me to like, oh, you're so cool. You talk to us and half the time, you know, people like our homeless people at this. But, you know, about five that I spoke to were just normal people. They had jobs, had marriages, lost their job, which caused problems in the house that I lost the house. Fight with the wife, got divorced in there on the street. So I always figured, can happen to anybody. So I always treat him with respect. Sometimes you get a few crazy ones that are out there, but hey, I got a fine with them too, Dave. That's true, you know. I spoke, I spoke there, language. But the time, the funny time was when we, when powerhouse gym was opening up the delicious, right now, powerhouse gym on Main Street. Yeah. And I was talking to his homeless guy. So I was having this big finger. I was saying, let me talk to the delicious, because having this big buffet or this food, I said, let me talk to the people that are having the gym when the openings over, there could be a lot of food left over. I'll see if you can have it. So I asked, because that's how I saw so I was starting to get in the gym on the street. And I said, hey, tonight, when it's over, get your friends and come up. So about 10 pm at night when the green opening was almost finishing. I look outside fucking the window of powerhouse there. And there's probably like 20 homeless all along. I was like, oh, really? You've sat in there, right? Like, like a soup kitchen. And all the sudden they come in and they got their clothes and they're getting sandwiches and put sandwiches in there, pockets and they've got them and they've got them broken. And this old lady was, this old lady was over there. And this guy was putting his finger in the dip bowl. He's like, he said to the, he said to the server, hold with the old lady, guys, what's this? He's like, I don't know. I didn't cater this fucking thing. But it was great. You know, it's over to funny people. Then one time this old lady still gets to get her some money. She should always hang out at the front, you decide to order a firehouse there. And one time I came out, I just never knew money. And I had like, I think at half a hand burger left over because I ordered too much food. Yeah. I think it, oh, well, I don't have any. You give us, so I gave it a bag with the food in. Yeah. I've got three feet away. I'm only three feet away all the sudden. Fucking contain it hits me in the back. Oh, she's three. Yeah. I want money, not fucking food. I just want to bite me one by one. That's why, yeah. Well, I wasn't upset that, you know, I'm upset that I would have eaten that. Yeah. Yeah. That way, you threw it at me. I'm pretty good. Fuck. But then your word got out because I used to give money to the homeless. People like I'll leave. Don't give it to the homeless. You're going to spend it on drugs. So alcohol. I'm like, hey, if alcohol is what makes them happy and makes them feel good, who am I to fucking judge him, you know, if you live in on the streets. So I got to the point where because I drive that big hammer everywhere, you know, skate, see that with two people. Well, he's got the hammer. I got the point where, you know, where he's cafe is and that way the stop sign is the place. I could just pull up that. Where it should as I stop. Hey, hey. Are you to leave? Yeah. My mate skate says you give out money. The word. Not me driving around Venice. The little pocketside pocket door on the hammer. I had lots of hives and ones in there. I was like, fuck and just going around here and then I had. I need to get homeless people. That's very funny. What we had to homeless. I now had to homeless got paid day. Yeah, well, you were the, you were the better factor of the evidently. Yeah. Now, a lot of guys train people at gold. There was a lot of trainers there that were presented at Bibles. Other guys who are trainers who competed, who would you say were the most popular guys there? Hmm. No, I don't know if Charles Bus was competing back in the early nine as I think it retired. Yeah. Charles would probably be the most popular. I know I'm, I need list was still competing. I think it is training people. And Carl the brother was training, right? Yeah, it had to be clientele. Was there a lot of training people? Yeah, because they were married. Yeah, they were together. I think those two were doing it. And then there was, I think that's a guy called Zachary Love. If I think he used to train people. Phil Gaulfield Gaulfield train people too. Yeah. Yeah. He's that place on Abbott County. Didn't he? Yeah. Picking this place. I think Will Big Will. Will Harris was, right. Phil training people back down. We've built a Smith down when you were there. Yeah. Yeah. Billy Smith. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That whole place there in gold. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But he was based out of gold. Billy, but he had a lot of clientele. I'm just trying to think of who it. There were, as I said, these supplement dealers from Germany would come over. Before long, they were training people too. I'm sure. He's sure they were. They did the permanent trainer and supplements. Right. Right. But then you just had a few different people like David Luna. He would train people there and it will. You knew it was like an old gymnast type. And now is that guy. Remember that guy who used to train people. He looked like richy canning him. Oh, you was a f***ing boy. He was that guy. He was always there. Always. He was like, almost looked there. Then he could have richy canning. I thought it was. Yeah. I thought it was right. Yeah. Yeah. He looked like a truck between the both of them. Yeah. Well, that's his name. YouPhone. You can tell him they went there later on. Have you flown in the TuMax UN? Yeah. They'd be cool. They would have made one thing. Adam. Mick and her. He was not afterwards. Oh. Joseph. I'd tell him whether they were notkers. Oh. Mr Jordan. He'd keep a separate group. Steve. Are you guys aware of English? Yes. Yes. Alright. Who clear is that? Thinking well. Cool. people there, he's got the glasses. He's always, he's got his own little rack now. It's like they got their own little space, don't come in to my space. This is my power rack. But he's still there. I saw him there. It's funny when I went back like last year. And there was his old lady there. She's from Germany, she remember. Oh my god, Lee, she's like probably in the 80s and she's still there. Oh, she's still there. But there's so many like, it was weird because I'll just walk around the gym. He was like, oh, Lee ever seen for 20 years. And this is so much the bomb. It's the same thing. It's the same thing. There's almost like going on one of the most TV shows. This is your lot. Remember this voice? You've been going to bed. You've got a bad, you've got a bad Francis gym in New York. And I'm telling you, it's the same group of people for the last 30 years. They just got a little older. That's it. Same crew at night. The daytime crew. I'm telling you, it's almost the same exact people. It's crazy. Well, I love that because it's like going back in, there's like, what a memories come flooding back. It's like, bro, the tear to my eye. And then I got there in the early in the morning because Eddie Jolie and he was there and seen Eddie again. Eddie started crying when he saw me. He was really nice. So, you know, because Eddie, I always got on great. And sadly, it was. How was Eddie? Well, he had to be late 70s with Neil. I don't know. And I don't know. I don't think he's there anymore because he's five past away a few years ago. So he moved out to be with his daughter out in the rancher, Kuka Manga. Oh, okay. I still keep in contact with him. But yeah, but just even going in there, seeing everybody, like I said, it's like going back in time, even though everyone's older, I just felt like, you know, if you go on home again and then just sit up on the bike. And it's almost like, you know, when you go somewhere, you haven't been here forever. But when you get back there, it's like you never left everything down. Everything down. Yeah. Everything's to be at older and stuff. But everything sitting up on the bike is almost like I say, like the first time I walked in in 92 and Ken Ken was on the counter and stuff. But it's based on like Ken because maybe Ken, teen in the day, everyone had a number. But he knew everyone's number. Yeah. You see, you're coming. Five, seven, four, two. Yeah. Six, eight, seven, nine. You're in. I think I'm a f**kers, you remember everybody's fucking number. It's just like, does it every day? That's right. It's like, yeah, how many people come in there? Like, hundreds of people, he's just like, nine, nine, seven, one. Yeah. You're eating. That's like, that can do. But then you must have still been on point. And and done the Ripper roster though, is there too? Yeah. You're not always getting tired. I just want to talk and if you get too close, you'll spit out. Yeah. You're always a bit sweet. Yeah. Yeah. You're so excited. You're so excited. It's one of the funniest ones. Because I always talk to the mic, men's a son. I mean, people would see mic towards the lady, easy to always be at the front. We've just been a belly on him and smoking away. I remember coming to the gym, they stand at the front. No, go. Hey, Mike. Lee, come here. I said, yeah. I thought you were going to tell me some words of wisdom. He's like, I've worked it out, Lee. I said, what if you worked there? And he goes, you know, that song, how great thou art? I said, yeah, a third of you goes, that's about half the Jones. How great thou art, half the Jones, half the Jones is God. I'm like, okay, good morning. Isn't it weird how he lost his mind like that? You know, and it's I blame Arnold. Arnold is the one who did it to him. He never seems to 80 Olympics. 80 Olympics. Louis Mike Arnold, completely outside them there and made him lose. You know, he's got a lot of, you know, he's got a lot of funny characters. They're one of the great ones I love talking to with James Coundy active because he love Aussie rules football. So another time I was at that stop sign, the Rose Cafe James Cound sticks. He's heading to window. Hey, you're going lead a Sydney Swanson. I don't follow, but I just pretend I did it. Yeah, that's good. Next thing is car behind me. James Coundy, in the back of the car and goes, what are you fucking going around? He comes and tough guy back in the day, you know. That's the guy goes around. He's like, I just got cold off my James. I love the bad Venice. There was always like real actors there, you know. They did the right. Great. Great. He's like, buddy, building. I always talk to him. He actually come watch the shows because he was dating. I think I got married to him. The greener. Did he get in the greener? I did he really? I think so. And then, what's your, Dennis Hopper was the funniest thing. The gym, it always be up to some sort of crazy stuff. He was a crazy guy anyway. I still don't cause him. He just, sometimes get the pop or artsy that would try to get photos on going in there. Jim, so, I'll hit his, I turn to get a split. He goes, you think they'll notice me today. So he's Dennis Hopper in just black paints, black shoes. He's got the black baseball cap on. Please, big black glasses. That's what you're doing. It's where to be in cognito. And black T shirt on. But he white riding it said, act up. He's an interesting character, Dennis Hopper. I love it. He's a great actor. He was fine. You know, he used to be really cool to talk to was Rucker Howa. He was a, he was a really good. I was. I was. I didn't know he trained there. Yeah, then he went over to Belgium. When I went to Belgium, there was always over there. After that. But then what's his name? I remember when Johnny the Monique was being made with Keanu Reeves. Yeah. Keanu Reeves was coming to the gym and run on the treadmill with that. You know, in the movie, Ed that little briefcase hanged up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So you'd come and run on the treadmill with the briefcase on his wrist. Like, yes, he was just getting in the roll. That's funny. That's funny. Yeah. Bruce, yeah, was that was there, too? Was it any back of the day? Yeah. When he was Bruce. Yes. He was a boy. Yeah, when he was a boy. Now when he was a girl. And even a lot of the LA makers would come in back then. Magic, right? Yeah. Magic was there. And then remember to use to always be, I think, is might have talked about it once before on that telephone with people would ring up. The telephone would ring it always be someone going muscles. Oh, he got muscles. The payphone and gold, you know, is ring now on answer. But if I was waiting, I'd tell my friend to it. I'm going to answer it. Hello. You got muscles. You're being musul man. This is every day it would ring a couple of times. And if you answered, it was just some freak on the other hand. Coward. Leave most of the kids watching. So like, what's a payphone? We don't even know where to payphone is. It's a thing you'd go up to the wall in the old days. You had to do this. Jenna dialed actually. Yeah. Then it got really high taken. It's like, oh, look at this. And then everyone said, don't talk on the payphone. And they're tapped. Do you remember these to tell you that? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. He's a clicking noise. But this, I don't know who it was. We never knew who it was. But this guy got always ring up. Have you got big muslians? Have big. I think I think secretly it was Luzouk because he used to always ring up people. You ask anybody, anybody who flew Zouk when I was in Australia in 1819. I'd get a call at freeing them all. What are you doing? Fucking sleep. I don't even get a shri I am. Hey, you're looking. Okay. Have big irums. Can you measure? Have big irums. Okay. Who do you like? Eddie Robinson. I like Eddie Robinson. Yeah. You think you can beat Eddie Robinson. But everyone I spoke to that spoke to Luzouk. You said the same shit to him. He called a lot of people there. And he asked, are you asking anybody? It call him off. Just ask these weed questions. I was like, how are you looking? Have big and a mussels? I'm thinking about the fuck's going on here. And the fuck that thing with it. All you guys put up with him because he actually had connections in the American muscle magazine. He actually promoted shows and he was a weirdo. But he was actually connected. So like, yeah, you had to actually deal with him, right? Yeah. Well, he's the one that originally meant to bring me to America. But then he coped out on the air fair and my friend paid for my ticket to get there. And stuff. So his full of shit. So we had a big argument. You know, he was going on well, you're fat. I said, if you see now fat, you are zir with your so-so. Fuck and water. And then I told him, you know, told him out of all the millions of Jews that got killed. I said, I can't believe he wasn't fucking one of them. Oh, my God. You're nasty. Holy, macro. From that point on, he didn't talk to me. And he was like, I wonder why. Well, I think the consensus after I made my question initially was, what did people do there and the answer is not much, not much. They didn't do it. The same shit they do now. Thank you for taking us back to the good old days. And the female body builders say used to just wrestle. Go to hotel room and wrestle. They did. You asked when the body builders were you going. Oh, God, go somewhere. You finally won, we tell you, there's a guy flying in from New York. I've got to go down to the room and they like being, you know, wrestled and they're some mission and shit like that, you know, get their big fires and squashing them between the people. But I don't think people do that anymore these days. Do they? That's not a my business. The underground network is just not there. Now the 10 Dixons, that would have been more, you know? Well, maybe it has started off because women's body buildings not as big now. So, you know, as women's body buildings not as big the clitorious as I'm as big the fad start off. It's not like the old days day when those women would stand over and get that speedball above you. All right, it's getting a little out of hell. All right, I've not known. And that's feedball that we're going to wrap things up on day full on board. Leave praise for another installment of Iron Raage. We'll see you next week. I want to tell you how many times I went down on the girl and I got my eye pooped out. That's not an eye business.

Welcome back to Live With. I'm Dave Palumbo and today I'm super excited because I have the owner and the guy who made it all happen at Bang Energy, Jack O'Wock, a good friend of mine from the past. He's here, he's going to tell us about his tremendous success story in the industry and where he came from, how he got there and where he's going, Jack welcome back to the show. Thank you very much. One of the things I want to do, I'm going to start out with telling people how we met, right? I saw you with the Arnold class of Mark and round and you had a long pants on. What was about bodybuilding pants called the day? And I'm going, I'm looking at you on my booth and I go, who is this free? I can see this rope thing through his long pants. I'm like holy shit and then I found that you were, you had a background of biology and everything like that and then I asked you to write for us, you wrote a few articles in Hall of Magazine, everything but you were a true freak of nature about that. Now you look pretty normal. I forgot that magazine you had that I wrote for you and that was pretty cool. You were cutting edge back and you were always cutting edge now. Definitely. You were, you were cutting edge with the bodybuilders and everything you were doing. And I was always attracted to that scientific part of it because there are so many trainers out there that you're not getting good results and they just double up. Yeah. Double up the nose. Wait, you were in the first interchanged and just double up. And so I admired you because you were probably the first one early on at the I call protocol gurus that took a scientific approach to building muscle. And so that's I think that's how we connected initially. Yeah, you know, I'll tell you where I got from it. I think you were too. Were you a disciple of like a Bill Phillips, you know Scott Connelly Disciple too? Yeah, I followed them with a great deal of interest but people said it Bill Phillips has a seminar you're going to come. I said if he's talking about science, nobody's talking about marketing. I'll pay $5,000 for a front row scene. One of the things that was really cool where we printed the magazine and a ballad where we just talking about and human muscle and performance. It was in this place in Hollywood Florida, little place and they also printed muscle media. So, when I went in there, they printed red book everything because they were the cheapest printer known to man. So, I would go in there and I would get a copy accidentally on purpose of muscle media two months before it was launched because that's you had to print it early to find out where was going on. And Bill was definitely always on the cutting edge. Again, he was, you know, you can follow Joe Weedher this guy or that guy, but I'm like, this guy actually squats. Let's listen to kind of what he said. Bill Phillips was the first guy to really challenge I think Weedher and the whole establishment and say, you know what, I'm not going to like keep this hush hush. We're going to talk about drugs. We're going to talk about what really goes on in bodybuilding and quantify and try to at least put some kind of a scientific approach on it. And I think that guys like me and I'm assuming you as well, we would kind of attract it to that because it was the first time we actually were able to get knowledge because it was no internet back then about these subjects and you know, you got to read the Andeshane and Bill and all the people he would bring in his experts were actually I was able to learn stuff and you couldn't find this information anywhere else. And so to me, he was a guy at least that I wanted to emulate in some sense in the future. I didn't know when I liked the idea he had his own supplement company. I liked the idea that he had a magazine where he kind of educated people on what was the good stuff and what was the crap and you know he would test products and he would put the test results there, who's products were good, who's, you know, he must have destroyed that company and him has strength systems USA. Oh yeah, yeah, they had the worst crap of all time and he exposed them completely, you know. I would remember too in the magazine he would act and at which simply means you just put a black iron over it like a legal documents. But when you held it up to the light, you could actually yeah, yeah, right. Accidentally on purpose because yeah, yeah. But now that was very cutting edge back then. I met Ray on from there, Stony Grimes called me once and we were selling the plus and the base out of this little story. Right. And we took an early position early on with anything that was cutting edge. And the story that I slept on a mattress in, it's kind of like my life story of going from 350 square feet about as big as your office now. Yeah, right now we operate in 3.2 million square feet. That's a thumb belief. But back then, out of that little story here selling so much metrics that they were bringing the pilots in in the beginning of the day and we'd have to sell them before they ended the day because we couldn't even fit it in the store. I didn't really solve that much metrics really. Wow. Yeah. And so that Stony Grimes, this is how I meet Stony because they go Stony Grimes is on the phone. I go for muscle meat. Yeah. He goes look Jack. All the gyms are complaining. You're selling two cheap. He goes but you've been selling it two years before they end. He goes but I got to call you and you got to tell everybody yeah I called you and told you to sell it last year. You keep doing what you're doing. You must have been making them a fortune Jack. Yeah, it was fun though because everybody would come to me early on just like they would come to you. They wanted real information. Right. I'm going to sell them some scams supplement and about then you know about mixture of proteins I still believe in that today the fast and the us way and the slower case in and the intermediate egg protein. I mean it's a great concept. Yeah, I was a good concept. When you saw the I guess the grip that metrics had on our industry where people were paying full retail, no one can plain full retail for metrics. I mean forever for years that's how they made all their money. Is that how you got the idea to say hey you know what I got to start my own supplement line? No it was actually before that for a pivotal story believe it or not I father was over he's 87 years old so I was teaching school when I opened this little store. This little supplement store where I slept in the back on an air mattress. You actually with that was your apartment this store. Yeah it was gone five hours. Vitamins in the front house. And total was seven hundred square feet but I remember one day we were only up at two weeks and I was teaching school and I was making $1900 a month. What's this public school system? This is not probably. In my second week we made $700 now no one's going to be impressed with that nowadays but when you're making $1900 a month and you do $700 one day and you're second week I said there's two of this. Pivot of moment was this guy came in and this is a metric story who's going to buy either the 20 count or the 60 count box remember? Yeah I remember the big I like that big case they had. He's to get I used to get tons of those. Yeah so if he bought the 60 count we we've seen in the huge discount of $144 he could make his car pin. This guy was literally in the store you know pacing back and forth it's only 350 square feet. Deciding his aim if I buy the 20 count I could make my car payment if I buy the 60 I can't make it. My dad was in the store my dad's old school. Yeah so the guy finally gets up there he's got a sleeveless tank on his proud of his build he's sporting about 20% body fat. And he makes the decision after two hours to buy the 60 count he's not going to make his car payment which means it's going to get repossessed. That's something very pivotal though and it's stuck with me and it's so funny that we brought this conversation up yesterday. He said remember son after the guy made a purchase and this world you're measured from the shoulders up meaning that all that bullshit below your your your head your brain doesn't mean not that yeah I think it took you an eye 30 years to learn that. Yeah now you're right you're right very very high but a very pivotal metric story of me realizing like a lot I'm like wait a minute this guy's not going to make his car payment I did 711 day and we had 17 years of uninterrupted growth. Wow but you know that's part of another story so yes. But you know what it tells you that where people's priorities are you know people saw metrics as like it was like you're doing a steroid cycle because there was such a superior supplement to everyone in the marking behind it with bill Philips using Connelly and I mean they had that thing I mean there were like I remember the rumors that there was club uteroll in there people were making up all kinds of crazy stuff because people couldn't believe that you know people were making such games on the stuff and it was just that people were finally eating enough protein and we're eating a protein source that was actually absorbable and able to be assimilated it really was revolutionary in a sense that it created a much higher quality and science based supplement uh business that never really existed before that and then everything kind of took off from there at that point and it was interesting. So everybody's talking about a colleagues, colleagues, surf-up, plus, a colleague deficit. What it did do is you ripped open the package so it was full proof you couldn't fail. Yeah and as long as you're eating high protein look on any diet you know Dr. Antonio did a study where the test subjects consumed 800 calories additional from protein every day about their base and they still build muscle at large spotty fat. So people think like this fan safe and dieting where there's almost no ceiling but if you do that with carbs or carbs and fat you're gonna get body yeah absolutely. Now when when did you decide hey I'm gonna start dpx and and do my own supplements. 1993 we made something called ATP recent the sizeur um it not only had creatinine but it had the different amino acids where your body synthesized creatinine itself and we you know we sold a ton of it. Where did you get that idea for that product yet? What's that? Where did you get the idea for that product? I was kind of looking at a phosphogen and I said well you know it has sugar and even though they were touting that is a delivery system to increase insulin and shuttle you know the creatinine to the muscle and all that there was just too many people like myself that that I believed and I got a lot of it's from you believe in a complicated lot of products. Is that a non-insulin mediated way to build muscle so meaning no sugar no harm. Yeah and once when I came out with shotgun and there's you know we have muscle gene protein studies where it increases myogenic regulatory factors up to 550% uh new to genomics proven in a Baylor university study in the Florida state study that's all in my book that's coming out okay that Natalia if you can in what year was that jack that was before you were ahead of your time I think at that point I was a legend in my own month. No what year did you come out that that no one was talking about that stuff when you came no even knew you were talking about when you came out with that stuff. Yeah and one of the things when you say that and I'll answer your question the second is that that's why I came out with the magazines I said look you know I was a teacher a science teacher a bunch of different disciplines there's a look if you come out with something new you got to take on the responsibility of educating you just like you did a body building a training protocol and everything like that I mean you can't come out with something new then you got to actually sell the truth during the consumer he's gonna use products now when the when the pro hormone market kind of got really ripe for the ticking and you know I think Patrick Arnold was the first person to really introduce the interesting guy on and then everyone kind of jumped on the bear like you actually had a great spin on it because you had that you had your pro hormones and you were selling with the little syringe you know attached to the bottle which was great for it was only like a baby syringe like that you would drop like a kid's medicine with where to get that idea that was brilliant jack so one of the things I had a little boy at the time and I noticed like in public it's like a croaker people on familiar publics and different parts of the country but they are right just like you said they would feed babies with these little things that look like a syringe but they had no needle right and back so was a company that had maygos and packed with them and the patent was very simple you couldn't screw a needle on because in the hospital setting if somebody saw this thing and screwed an needle on and injected food into someone obviously you're gonna have a pretty right drop and so I got the idea that when you study bodybuilding heroin addicts anybody that's into this type of stuff even supplements there is much addicted to the ritual as they are the drug and sick you're right you're right so we had this bottle and you would stick thing in this syringe and pull ups I down but that was that was kind of a marketing thing but it was a great tool to measure how much you use because if you're using something like a product we had called monster tests 10 milligrams in a and a liposomal delivery system and a limited it was super punk so you had to measure it I mean the difference between 10 milligrams and 15 can right send somebody over the edge so these like that not for one death so but what we learned first which was really cool as I said and you know the name of the the parent name of the company still vital pharmaceuticals yeah I said look this supplements like bill tested we tested everything fake nothing meets label claim I don't want that snake oil image I want to operate like a pharmaceutical company so all the original drug hormones if you remember they weren't poorly acted they would break down with first task liver degradation just like you know real steroids so I said look I want to make something that's just like an injection that five passes first bypass liver degradation was directly into the bloodstream was pretty easy in science is when you code something with a lipid the lipid will transverse the intestinal through the micro directly into the bloodstream because it's light and philic and we got stuff like four understand a dial in the early 12 hormones to work magnificent people were gaining seven to 10 pounds I had a doctor dime and up in your neck of the woods in New York testing these on all this clients and given the blood results and it was phenomenal yeah well the games we can get the thing and then nobody can compete with us right because if no one had that no one had that delivery yeah just didn't work interesting so you make and then obviously they make the stuff illegal at some point you can't sell anymore was that yeah you recreate yourself so many times that I'm that's really what impresses me what do you do you make in a lot of money selling these pro hormones obviously in addition to the other stuff you're making with the company but that's you I'm sure you make a ton of money from that how do you say these up oh my god I can't sell this stuff anymore I got it now recreate my brand to to to to a champion something else what did you do at that point how did you respond to that new law that they said for it well it's interesting that you say that because everybody said oh VPX is gonna go out of business and to a little bit of everything like that but one of the things I was always doing that you've got to look you have to embrace change you have to be different and you have to just like we did now we took everybody off guard we came out with a carbonated drink I've let it say no one would drink it we did all these things seven years ago the people were just copying us now so you're too late and again you look at every supplement company now they have a excuse me it's been out carbonated drink this is the new key lime pie that we just launched amazing I have to say that bang or red line which what brand is that well that's it's it's bang okay but that's the thing just like with the pro hormones is I knew we had to pivot right I knew we had to pivot when a Fedor was going to be made illegal we would we would be experimenting every day all day all night with different stimulants and it was another pivotal point when when a Fedor was pulled everybody just took it out of the product well none of the products worked yeah you can be and these other methylated P.E.A. compounds and everything that was legal at the time and we were ready when we answered and it was really cool because GNC we had a love eight relationship but we red line came into prominence they would buy our red line gel caps they would purchase when a Fedor was made illegal $1.7 million per juicer in the beginning of month and like a 700,000 but that didn't for a little company man I was blown away but we had the only answer and then we transitioned that into the red line drink and it became the number one selling beverage and all categories of all time and both GNC and Biden and shop where the love of this world helps world's largest health feed retail let me ask you that because that you know that was definitely a monumental very unique thing that you did you came out with it it was an energy shot drink red line no one had that people don't realize you would first to market with that where did you get the idea from to do that jacket and what gave you the you know drinks are heavy to ship they obviously increased the cost you have to have distribution like when you got this idea to do this I mean did you know how you were going to get there or kind of did you feel your way thank god I was stupid you know I was in the beginning new anything but when you you have this gut feeling something's going to work you don't worry you're not sophisticated like we are now we're thinking about shaking away we're like we're all in for it okay yeah so yeah yeah I'm not delus yeah were you making the original ones yourself a did in house or were you farming it out initially no so what what we did was we took this position and I believe we still have this position to that well explain it is to become the kings of liquid delivery because everyone is doing everyone else wasn't doing it everyone was afraid of it I embraced the science early on and so we were learning again now and funny you just bring up that little applicator it's like a bottom of the screen but it's five MLs right so you have 334 milligrams of a federal herb in there you had your hand the you had 250 milligrams of caffeine all in five cc we had to learn out of flavor that so yeah right so when you learn out of flavor that it comes to okay now we have eight ounces it's so much easier we were experts your experts in liquid delivery and what we did too and we still do this there we have this high speed shear and it's this blade system that you got to see it's just phenomenal and it takes particle weight down to three microns or less and so you're you're sharing these compounds where you're getting a much greater effect out of the sememannocompat it's just like there's bad to a two if you look at the vaccines that are made now these people go well how could they effy what well they're they're the aluminum that's in there why would you put aluminum is micronized to such a degree and so is the mercury that across is the blood brain barrier so we took that negative though and made it into a positive or you micronized these particles and they're much more effective so red mind everybody's like how is this drink clear and it takes taste so good and works so well but again we are like obsessed with all these liquid delivery systems to make the problem on work right this understood how did you did you have like like scientists working for you to do this to figure this stuff out or how did you um how did you come yeah because no one did it before and you were the first ones to really you know revolutionize that how does that come about how do you we didn't even start with something like that so I you know I taught six different disciplines of science took chemistry and did all this thing and had enough knowledge where I could figure most of this stuff out to a certain degree and then handed off to one of the guys we had was from a major pharmaceutical company and his title was head of liquid liquids and semi solids and so we worked with him to do these different delivery systems and I can articulate what I wanted and him and I work and together we would be able to we would be able to make these different delivery systems to get the things work so I was always considered myself the world expert on these unique ingredients and then take them and take maybe an ingredient that was you know orally maybe mediocre I turned it into the super ingredient who are great delivery system the reason I really admire what you did jack is because you didn't just like you're not just a marketing like genius guy who said hey I got an idea I'm going to make an energy drink and and and compete against some of the you know red bull and all these other guys you act you actually had science behind your product and I don't even know people who use your product know that aspect of what you do that that there's actually a science behind you're everything you make over there because that to me that only validates what you're doing more because most of these you know carbonated drinks out there just caffeine and carbonation and flavor I mean you you you have a layer of something more they are with is actually science behind what you're doing yes so one of the things I did too is um everybody was telling us when we had red line drink you'd have a top executive from Pepsi from Dr. Pepper as they would get fired they would they would always gravitate toward us and they would get three and they would say look over and over you got to come out with a carbonated 16 hours got to come out over and over but they also would tell me but make sure you put sugar oh no way because their thing was hey the ones that are top sellers I'm sugar in it right so what I learned early on was and we could get back to this I don't know how long you want to do this interview but to deny the data to be super successful you have to deny the data because that means your isolize protein if you look at the data great in orange or number one you'd have a great in orange but you see all these revolutionary flavors because you denied the data and like we have rainbow unicorn uh that radical skidado all these crazy flavors that are top sellers because we denied the data and made and did things differently so here's a shameless plug for my book but I'm gonna put it up close because one of the key things like you said is it has over a thousand scientific references that's crazy seven patents and 30 university studies that we did so in there I was always interested in the science so we would fund studies a bailiff or to state UCLA Memphis all these great studies that's part of the book that makes it different right I told my wife I've been writing this book for 13 years so I said I could throw this book in the garbage right now and I felt like it many times this is just a part of the time yeah we did we did one point two a billion in sales last year but that's from this massive learning it's hard hard yeah say that number again what you didn't sell I'm gonna quote iRI dad because a lot of people will never believe it so you could look it up it's public information we did uh we're just bang we did one point two a billion in sales in 2000. Billion with a B. Yes wow that is impressive Jack that's going to appreciate that congratulations man thank you very much thank you and so but but writing that book that 13 years of discipline and effort to write the book is what set us on that track because what happens is is then it allows us to set the trend us to know where it's going right to know what the next innovation is going to be and everything based on the science right go ahead now what I wanted to ask you was I I know this I I have never discussed it with you but I know that with the answers going to be ready when you start to do in these kind of sales I have to imagine that Pepsi and Coke read all these companies that are the big names they gotta be shaking in their boots they gotta be like really angry to that this guy who's who's sleeping in his in his store 10 years ago is it is now cut into their business when you get in like I mean the people give you death threats or do we there people like you know trying to like muscle you out of the business try to put the kabach on you well give me one second here you could go to someone I'll do I'll let my scientists leave now because he's he has a other side waiting for us to the truck because research and development we never stop at no matter what yeah I'll just I'll just check you later thank you kindly we we got to tell the samples that he brings over every day and twice a day and then I get stemmed out of my business and you must be jacked out of your mind over time a little bit the samples here yeah I'm trying to sip this while we talk yeah so yeah that's why I asked you if you're sure you want to go down that rabbit hole there's some negativity there on glad the shock about it yeah I like to know because people think that it was it was an easy rise for you but I have you know these companies they don't go they don't go softly into that good night they they're not going to just like bow down to you so I have to imagine it was it was a very tough road for you yeah okay so and and you're correct so I always equated especially being down here in Miami you know the scarf a few days and everything else the drug dealing trade um when Castro let all the criminals out of jail that really did happen Scarface down here and then Florida when Castro let all the the Cuban prisoners got right but you know a drug deal and someone takes your turf right and you what do you do you kill in the corporate world you sue them and you try to put them out of business well in 2008 roughly uh I don't know roughly about 10 years ago both Red Bull and Monster suit us over Redline knowing that this product was far superior than anything they had right they were in panic muck um and they both suit us they were both frivolous lawsuits both of them had to walk away with nothing um but it was interesting so you beat you beat them you beat Redline and Red Bull I mean you beat Red Bull in Monster right and so what happened in the Red Bull case is we both had spent 700 grand on attorney speech uh he decryptation out of Austria sounds just like Arnold when you talked in the attorneys over there and everything he said look we got to sell this lost not the york but his main attorney folk or Vic power never ever get his name any goes he goes we spent 700 grand almost to do spend we're now like frenemies right yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I go we spent 700 too we spent the same amount he goes we he goes I'm gonna tell you the truth he goes we made people go wait for 15 grand and he goes apparently you ain't going to wet they don't know they didn't know you very well jacked that's right oh what happened with Redline is we made it first in an aluminum cannon we did make it in house to answer your question because we don't want to pick up what the formula my first one was 80,000 bombers second run just six weeks later it was 800,000 bombers how did you have enough and the production and what you were running blind 24 hours a day well we bought this killer fog filler it's from it's it's a rotary filler that does a few hundred bottles a minute yeah that was fast for us back then funeral bottles a minute and we purchased it and we were just you know we were running it nonstop and you know you know we're all jacked up on clip, but Redline said there was times we'd work on the magazine for 48 hours straight and think nothing of it you know you're having fun and yeah and so we had the I said okay the attorneys I realized that it was the law firm that was the problem hot red right because then they said an underground and I told him in 21 emails do not only one person's allowed to bill and I said we're gonna win this in the media and I'm gonna teach you guys how to fight this the right way against rambles so in any event we didn't look to the attorneys talk and Volker and I settled the case within 10 minutes really he wanted to save face and so Redline had originally had a gray cat right and we were changing to white cat because it was one penny cheaper and it looked a lot cleaner right and a pack when you're starting to make millions of bottles which we phased into after the second run this a lot of you know adds up to a lot of money yeah so so he went back and he was able to tell his folks well we got him they were saying that little cat like this cat right here yeah we copied without a silver plastic lid I mean come on they were going to die are you serious well they knew they lost so in when we went before the judge and and mediation I said a bunch of things the judge was making fun of me for like six hours straight real why don't you think of fun of you because that's what you know judges do I was saying all kinds of things that he just didn't agree with you are trying to do a settlement so I said judge Rolex so now I'm getting to be a little smart ass too I go judge because we're like you know we're taking shots at each other yeah we're bored I mean they're we're in the red bowl they're double billing on their blackberries yeah sure I said Rolex watch I'm which is a fake one costs because I don't know if you're in a box I go what's the real one costs and to the judge could relate to a Rolex right he's at ten thousand dollars right I said well I don't know if you know there's the red bowl's claiming that we're the knock off and do you know that we cost a dollar more than it and he goes he goes oh look it's the first intelligent thing you said all day but he agreed with me and red bowl attorneys literally scrambled out in the hallway to settle out for that because they knew they were sunk in other words you cannot claim that red line is a knock off when it would have cost 30% more than you'd be right right right right right right right and I I'd say furthermore judge because the laws it's called confusion and don't want consumer confusion right because this is the only case that's so agreed just that you go blindfold consumers and put all the energy drinks out there and go field on one that's different and then would pick red line because it's the only one that's not the matter can't right and they knew that we're sunk and so we went out into the hallway didn't let the attorneys talk and we settled literally within 15 minutes but I could have went against some of God attorneys fees and everything like that but you know back then you know when you already spent seven hundred grand and you're spending so much money and it's meant that people don't understand this lawsuits you're meant to take you off your game sure so when when you when you you get taken out of the equation because you got into deposition's not this it hurts the business a lot and I just wanted to get back to business so I'm glad monster also suit us same year because they were again in panic mode because in LA we were just crushing at which is the most progressive and sought after energy drink market in the world right so in the monster case a similar thing happened I had to go out there for mediation I told the judge I go on the phone run a conference call rotten Rodney Sax I call my game the hashtag rock rock and all their people and I just posted several about this yesterday I'm linked in that you can read about rotten Rodney but the judge said I said judge I don't want to go out there Rodney all excuse me Mark all Rodney Sax they're arrogant I'll never settle I said I want to just go straight to court I didn't want to fly out there in any of the Asia because I knew they would never come to a settlement and I said you know you're on or they never beat people they just sued them and they run them out of money and they ruin them financially and emotionally and so he said we'll keep talking Mr. Aug so I said look you could look it up they're one of the most nutritious companies in America right now I believe they're the most litigious consumer product good company in America with over 250 federal lawsuits wow and the new growing people's lives many people have come to me so I said I go the bully needs to get struck back right and he goes what about your shareholders said the company's privately owned he was what about your legal fees I said we have the amounts of attorneys for this exact same thing I want to fight these guys he goes Mr. Aug remember this is like 10 or 11 years ago he goes I agree with you the bully needs to get struck back words are very powerful and you're the one to do it wow these words are come true today where we're in the lawsuit with them where we're like six different lawsuits with them and we're not we're doing it on behalf of ourselves of course good for everybody else based on principle if they ruined their lives sexual harassment suits everything they they got caught rig in the arbitration I posted something yesterday where they where they lied about to their shareholders where they just followed a suit yesterday and asked and so those judges words are coming true is the bully needs to get struck back and where they want to do it here it is 11 years later we're doing it we have six cases and I told my attorneys I go I don't know can't have hot to spend a hundred million we're going to take these guys out I said this under oath several times I go no holds bar and so we're in this fight right now but when you take a billion dollars away from somebody in sales just like a drug dealer they're not going to sit down and fight for their turf and that's the question you ask it's a long extended answer but you're not just going to sit back they're in panic mode because they know bags of better products a cleaner product the young people are embracing and we have this extreme positivity they have this extreme negativity and they just can't compete and that's a good job but Jack how do you balance how do you stay balanced yourself because that lawsuit is stressful no one wants to be sued no one wants to deal with this just crap you want to you're a science guy you want to just do your science and and and make your products I know I know the kind of person you know what how does that affect you mentally or have you learned to kind of like separate yourself from it? No I learned how to bifurcate the two different things I think it's to me it's difficult I don't force my religion on anybody but it's real simple in the Bible there's a historical count of this too even if you're not religious well the David Goliath fight it's a real fight it's historical it's religious implication also but in life you're going to face a lot of giants I know you I don't know your story exactly but you're not going to get to where you're going without resistance it just doesn't happen right God puts these at giants in your way God put Goliath and David's path for David to come into prominence and us to be talking about him right now today he had to slay the giant you don't ram the giant can't circumvent him you can't go over him you got to slam in order to come to your desk and I've had a strong belief on that so God put this giant in our way and the bigger the giant Dave the greater the reward is on the other side so I know when we slay this giant to me it's like a demonic thing on the other side is this massive victory right the bigger the giant the bigger the victory you got to slam so you're a warrior you've competed you you know all these fans in order to win you got to do what you got to do you can't counter and fear like a lot of people are doing during COVID I used this being principle last week we're out Texas for four week 221 people hey COVID's here we did it safely we're launching work once strong I'm teaching people look if you you can't counter and fear in your battle you got to go out slayer giant what it did was it made everybody happy positive they got out did something and and stopped you know hiding in their apartment. Sure well you know what you did is what you're doing I is is unbelievable you know that just recently you guys signed that big huge deal with Pepsi how does that come how does Pepsi come to you say you we want to be your official distributor that that's enormous enormous and big deal that you signed with them and and yet you still have complete ownership of your company it's amazing yeah so we in as we bush did well for us and we still use probably about 80% of our former and as we're bush to strip distribution with our ally brands we have something called new fusion really cool because it's got 10,000 50 milligrams of active it's got seven grams of essential amino acids really cutting that stuff it's hard to synthesize 10 grams in a 16 ounce beverage carbonated no one else can do it to date we we we read red line which has been huge I saw that I like those new red lines they try to they're really good too. Thank you flavors of delicious. I mean a lot coming from you so so what these products though they're we call an ally brands we're still distributing them with our own distribution and with a lot of anti-subush houses and even certain independent Pepsi's Pepsi has an exclusive distribution deal for a bat right yeah you know it takes a lot of getting used to because we're super fast we launch a new fan flavor every 90 days wow they're a very slow shift to turn there's a great dynamic tension there both companies are learning from each other but like in food service they're massive like on 60% of all college campuses it's just mine wow yeah what they what they have to offer you they have 350,000 pounds but again they you know they we we make unilateral decisions and and quick decisions and what them it's slow it's just there's a lot of dynamic tension where we're learning from them and they're learning from them it's definitely not easy that's true though let me ask you this is the question I want to ask you because you're a humble guy I know you're from many years I mean you lived in your store very modest you now you have probably more money than you can ever spend in your entire life and I know you not a big extravagant guy you know you're not a show off you know you like your little toys but you know what when you have that much money when you make this much money you're this successful what do you do with the money what point does it become like you know I don't even care about the money anymore because you work just as hard today probably maybe harder than you did when you were living in your store it's amazing to me it was never about the money it was about winning a game and helping people and even in my first year in business I told the people that were starting to work for me I go look just help people just help people the bank account take care of itself I said they looked at me like a deer in the head I said go imagine if you helped 100 people today how much sales we would do and it ran clear to that was like look if I talked to somebody on the phone explain the supplements and help them and get that them get what they want hey the bank account will take care and we still have that same mentality now you might think I'm odd for God or people that don't understand religion I don't force it again on anybody I'm just who I am but I look at my blessings as a way to bless others and to advance the kingdom of God here on earth you know very simple it is you look right now and it's 21% more people are seeking God because of a craziness going on the world it's unfortunate most people put God on the shelf that went there abandoned well they go God we need to pull you down we need to talk I'm scared but a lot of people are missing God in their life and it's the spiritual dynamic even time magazine it's very secular said that we scientifically were wired for a relationship with our creator and I think too many people are trying to fill that God void that they have with sex drugs everything else and you can't fill it you can only fill it with God and just I met a lot of super Uber wealthy people especially in my position now and I noticed a lot of them no matter how success well wealthy folks, jets whatever when I don't have God they're very shallow and insecure it's it's it's mind blowing and so I think it's a dynamic that everybody should explore again I'm not out for what I'd send just like the rest of them but you live your life in a different manner I mean I get my joy now I have four kids with my new wife and five kids total and that's you know what brings me joy and I like work and I like doing what you do if someone came to you Jack and said hey you know what we're offering a couple seats on this next space flight to the moon it's got a cost you whatever million dollars two million dollars would you go to the moon I would send you all right no I'd be bored stuff you never know you could you you might find some new new ingredients supplement ingredients over there. I must get some arms they're going to burn up what's it? I don't know lately they said there might be life on Venus they found a lot of different things that indicate their might be life I mean uh who knows but I think it would be crazy to be in space and trapped uh bring it one with me because I probably have to shoot this. That would tell you some reagent Jack what what's what's the next big project what where where do you see your company going in five years from now. Well wait I got asked you first would you go in the space but if I would if I didn't have kids probably so I'd say no now because I would be afraid that I wouldn't come back but if I didn't have kids I'd probably do it yeah. Do you consider John Romano you can't yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I might go John wait if I can go a John and have like at least someone talked to the whole time I probably go yeah I'm gonna pay for both of you to go. I'm always a question guy. All right I'll pick you out if you pay for me I'll go. I love my producer says he to help come to you. Bye I spoke too sweet. Let me ask this question seriously I mean you see yourself continuing to do this you know for 10 15 20 more years you'd like if someone came along and it offered you a ridiculous amount of money for your companies would you sell? Well that's happened twice I mean in my house now I invited you over but you never came. But we've had an eyes for bushover contemplating buying a piece of the company and I told them I would sell them am I near by Nordie Cheryl only I said look you can't have anybody sit on the board I go with fat you're not even allowed to call me I thought they would be upset and they go oh we messed up our business and we'd really mess up years so they go don't worry we won't be calling that never materialized because they're losing 4% a year and when you're losing 4% of a 100 billion it sales every year that kind of hurts oh yeah 10 to 12 years but um the problem is here unless you're going to hire me I'm unemployed so if I slow the business it's quite when I work I tell them same it's like you're you're unemployed well John Ramon is I and then what who's going to hire us but you don't need to work to I can yourself a business you can go you can go off into space if you want to me it doesn't matter you can do whatever you want I mean would you I'd you see yourself wanting to retire at some point and cash out? Not necessarily I just like win in the game and I don't think about that right now but this just happened fine I'm trying to revolutionize things do things radically different than everybody else has done I'm and you would think that these big beverage giants know what they're doing and have everything under control but they they don't they're very dysfunctional and everything like that and so we're working on changing that right now we're putting a few hundred million dollars into our distribution and manufacturing right in the Phoenix whenever you want to go we have the fastest beverage lines in America running 3600 bottles a minute and wow so we just bought a a 654 thousand square foot plant in Georgia where we're going to put the fastest line in the world it's never been tested before but it's 4200 cans a minute oh my god what what have you buy down in that flar I know you just bought something recently there's a big article about it you bought a huge place yes so we bought sixty acres and and on the front end of the sixty acres there's going to be three buildings the first two buildings are once 2205 thousand square feet once 250 and the third one we're going to connect in the second one just then make a massive building and so we'll add a major plants all throughout the United States wow print print in the cans it's called a candacorator right it's 60 million dollars and 80 million dollars doing stall it's mind blowing oh my god filling them all in the same plant that's going to ship in the men and doing things wrong the way the rest of the beverage industry does it wow they're super excited about that I'm excited about aluminum because it's infinitely recyclable you can just cycle a 22 times for a plastic a yellow plastic bottle you cannot recycle it once into another bottle you can make carpet out with the second down but I'm a fisherman just too much plastic in the ocean yeah yeah just being responsible and having fun doing it Jack you're an amazing story I've been lucky enough to have been friends that you're over the years and I've seen you grow and you've seen me do you my thing and so it's nice to have a success story at the end of the rainbow and you know you're fighting the good fight and I like the fact you still got the fire and you got to keep going and I'm enjoying watching your journey because it is it is cool to say hey I knew this guy when he lived in his store and now he's fighting you know these major uh drink distributors and winning and at the end of the day it's a lot of the good guys to come out on top yes and I want to tell you you're listening or something really important that I've always looked up to you your scientific knowledge your ability to train to do people's diets to do people's programs your your lot of supplementation everything you I want you to know I look up to I have the utmost respect for you always have and that's why we've always been friends for all this time I appreciate it and I appreciate our relationship and if you ever need anything and I mean that's sincerely just let me know you never have to buy dang again for the rest of your time I'll tell my wife that so like that the sanity of free but keep doing what you're doing you're doing a great job and and I also applaud you doing what we did is you pivot it right you you kept changing what the punches were a lot of people in this industry didn't last that long there was no longevity it couldn't reinvent themselves like you have done you know half a dozen times and I applaud you for that you're listening or she'd really appreciate that thank you very jack that means a lot to me I appreciate that compliment and best to luck in the future and we'll keep and touch obviously and you'll you'll give us updates on the latest products that you got coming out with and I know our viewers love that type of stuff and I have one final message yes God bless you and the horse you wrote in thank you thank you I also have a jack thank you so much and guys that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with on day polimbo for jack O'awwock we'll see you next time

I'm looking forward to probably more of you guys up, but to about hair loss. Had a preventative, had a reverse, the new modern thinking about hair loss and how it differentiates itself from what we thought in the past and joining me today to help educate us. A little bit is a good friend, Jay Campbell. Welcome. Hey, and it's an honor. Triflidge, always humbled to be in your presence, man. Since you and I did that podcast, while almost three years ago now, it really helped my career really help me in so many ways. So again, I'm always indebted to you and I, and in the spirit of gratitude, I appreciate it. All right, tell me how to grow some hair. Did you grow some hair back in your head, I noticed? I did, man. So, uh, we didn't give you the city to top of your head, we put it into the camera. You've got hair, you could definitely got more hair there. You're not afraid of how that's sprayed with anything, do you? This is great up, regrowth from almost being completely bald. I mean, the last time you saw me, I was almost bald. Yeah, you were shaved pretty tight. Yep. So what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, what's, yeah, so obviously our product, you know, my company is a seercostum.com, my business partner is a guy by the name of Nick Andrews and he's like literally one of the smartest peptide biochemists on planet Earth and we were told in our company launched in November of 2019 and we launched this. I'm going to stop you. I'm going to let you go and rant on because you're, you're a good talker, but I want to just say something. Sure, it didn't start with the company. It started with you doing the research on what, what the ingredients in the company are selling and then you, and then you got involved with the company. So maybe you should explain the science first. I will. Yeah, absolutely. So our product is called Oxano Grove. The earliest two products that we had are a serum and a cream that are, the main, in this, constituent ingredient is called Copperpeptide GHKCU. So the copper ion is CU and if you look into the research of that peptide. What's the GT? What's the other part of it? What's the, it's copper CU and then what's the other of the G? It's glyco histidine and then whatever. Oh, all right. So that's just how it's, yeah, exactly. Yeah, I mean, I give it to you. The same copper peptide and I don't know if it was a copper. When I got my, I got hair, a graph, years ago, like in 2000. So that's 20 years and 21 years ago. And they gave me some kind of like stuff to rub on. They had for the first week to help heal it. They said there was some kind of copper stuff to there. Was that the same stuff? Well, I don't need the same stuff. And that was the same stuff. No, there's definitely, yeah. Go ahead, what? It had just come out, I think, at that point. Exactly. Well, so here's the thing. So copper peptide GHKCU was discovered by a scientist named Lauren Pickert. He still has it in the company. The FDA, what after him? Because like a lot of research scientists, he started talking about health and benefit of this amazing peptide and how many multiple applications it has to heal. I mean, it is absolutely, as my business partner would say, the sham wow of peptides. It has a hundred different applications. From healing, from nerve regal, from, I mean, cellular, regenesis, collagen, synthesis, angiogenesis, and what is copper, what is so special about copper that would cause healing? So copper is basically embedded in all of our biological systems. Like if you look at the copper peptide or just the copper ion, just look at our blood, the hem and our blood, you have copper up and down our cellular systems. So giving a replant of replacement, but just applying a copper peptide like GHKCU to the skin increases, all sorts of cellular mechanisms, which would obviously regenesis or rejuvenation or regrowth. But it's like I said, it's pretty amazing stuff. So it's probably, obviously much better absorbed in this form that you're applying, then obviously just taking a pill with copper. Is that exactly exactly? So that's a good question. So let's back up. So the stability of this solution is best injected, but if you've ever injected copper peptide GHKCU, it burns like it burns. It's like a beasting. And our guys out there, then inject GHKCU into their scalp, no question, with tiny needles or whatever, and they get regrowth, and they act with thousands of guys on Reddit to talk about it. But the next best version of it would be like our solution, which would be through the dermis, obviously. So it transdermal solution. And it had a very gross to a lot of chemicals too, because they're exactly in an old version of it. It's just not gonna pass through the stomach. It's just gonna make it through the digestive system. You're not gonna have to let the alcohol even if there anything like that. So the oil bioavailability is almost meal. Okay, so you've got two options. You can rub it on your skin, and you have to, you know, clearly have a smart chemist that has a carrier agent. You don't want to be using the MSO, even though people do. Yeah. I'm like orient you. Now, our product, which again, we launched in 2019 in November, is a 3% grade of GHKC, so if you go on Amazon or you go on the internet and you search Copper, peptide GHKC, you get hundreds, literally, of products that claim to have it in there. But almost none of them have at the level that we do. And again, I always say this to people, take the Pepsi challenge, you know, use our product, put it on your face or your skin, or you know, do it for, you know, again, and we don't really advertise this, but on this show I will, you can use it to heal too. You can put it on soft tissue traumas. And it, you know, absolutely, you'll notice the difference within two to three days. On the face for most women that use it, they get like 70, 10 days or like, oh my God, my eyes are less. Right? But for guys, a lot of them in the MMA fighters use it. Whole contact guys use it. And from when they're using the ghee and they're sparring and stuff, they get cut off and slid up in their face, you put the stuff on your face, it massively speeds the rate of healing. So three percent, I mean, like, a lot of people don't know, and I'll give it an analogy to food. Sure. People think like, skin milk is like some kind of amazing thing, because it's, you know, zero percent fat, but whole milk is only three percent fat, okay? Which is still a lot of fat. Now, you know, reduce fat, and then they got the 1% to percent. So you think, you know, oh, that sounds like a little bit, but it's actually, three percent fat in milk is a lot, you know, same thing with what you were talking about is that it sounds three percent, cop of peptide, doesn't sound like a lot, but that is a lot, that's a high, that's a high concentration, right? Exactly. Exactly. Good good good good good good vision here, because if you went higher, you'd be in the clinical side of things. And obviously, we can't be doing that. And again, Nick worked in the bio-forma space for 20 plus years as a consultant. So he's a master at creating formulations. And obviously, our round the guidelines and our considered over the counter and application. Now, the issue or just, again, so people in a big picture standpoint can look at this as like there are tons of cosmetic companies, you know, Lori Owl, Rodan and Fields, the high-end boutique stuff. Yeah. Who mentioned the name, Copper peptide. OK. And then there's other stuff like P1 and all these different peptides that they put in. But they have, if anybody ever bothered to do a task, this stability test. And looked under the microscope, but what was in these products? They would find almost no active ingredient. Wow. OK. So they're really good. Well, look at all our stuff. Is it like these proprietary formulas you see in like the new application? Which, for you to kind of just sprinkle it in, they're like, Pixie dust. You just magically said the word proprietary blend. Exactly. Exactly. Hey, no, no, no. So we have to explain that because I want people to get results if they're going to try something like this. And they have to understand that there's a lot of the stuff that they're marketing out there because these companies are big bucks. And they can really suck you in with their marketing. But if it doesn't work to stuff, then you're wasting your money basically. I mean, do 100%. And that's right. Again, we tell people, when you go on a website, products are expensive. But we're not ripping anybody off to put a 3% copper peptide solution in a product is not cheap. I mean, that's a very high end aspect of creating this. But again, the process due to extreme expertise is not simple as just getting a 3% rate of copper peptide. And then, you know, slapping it on your skin or anything like that. It won't work. But again, just to go back about the business, we were in business game for about a month and a half. And a guy sent me an email. And he said, bro, we had it before and after picture. He's like, dude, on the big fan, blah, blah, blah. He's like, I was listening to Ben Greenfield's podcast. And he had on Ian Mitchell. And Ian Mitchell is the guy that owns our carbon 60 company. And I forget what they're called, but it doesn't matter. He was talking about carbon 60, the nanomolicule. Also, regenerates the shaft and the nerve and the follicle rooted the scalp. And that his theory was, is that if you use carbon 60 to regrow your hair, it'll work. So anyway, this guy who was a listener of mine, basically, was using that stuff that I just showed you before we went on podcasts from Taylor made pharmaceuticals, which is a GHK dropper. And he started mixing it with Ian Mitchell's carbon 60. And literally, 45 days, he completely regrute the hair in the back of his bald smile. So again, he sent us this before and after, but he's like, look, he would nicknames the look into this. Because this is unbelievable. Well, we first saw the picture, bro. We thought it was Photoshopped. Yeah. Because we're like, you have to have a website somewhere or a quesit effect, right? Yeah, yeah. It's on the whole page of the website. You can see it. It's the first picture of one of the four and actors. But so anyway, dude, that was in the December, so Nick went to work and looking at both of these agents, to potentially put them together. And we launched our product, which is, again, GHKCU, copper peptide, and 3% grade, and then carbon 60, which at that time was in a carrier oil of MCT, which was, again, version 1, which we found, even though it still worked amazingly well, it was too oily. So when you put it in your hair, you'd have too much oil in the hair. So a lot of women complained, guys, we'd even complain, they were like, dude, it's awesome. And it's re-grow in my hair. But when I go to sleep at night, I'm getting oil on my pillowcases. So we obviously fixed that. And by the way, we launched the product on June 5th of last year. And the same day, the same day that we launched the product, then agreed for your promote of the phasian skin. So it was like a perfect coincidence. What's the carbon product do? So the carbon 60 is, it's a good question. So the carbon 60 functions as a sponge. So think of it as a very powerful, like a super antioxidant, disputase. So you put the GHK on your scalp, which is going to increase angiogenesis, increase red blood cell, and collagen formation in the scalp. Okay. And then the carbon 60 pulls it into the scalp. Oh, I think it would help you absorb it. Is that, no, I'm not going to. You set me this little thing, and I've been using it. And one is, you spray one on first, and then the second thing you put on is that those carbon, the carbon 60. Exactly. And we're finding now that it really doesn't matter what goes on first. We recommend that you put the GHK, which is Ceremae, on first because it's water based. Okay. So when you apply it, you literally spray it into your scalp. How much time of the spray should I be putting on that? For you right now, probably two. Oh, I've been using it. Two of each. So you don't get it to the place where you want your most, you want to focus your red growth, and then you just massage it. Okay. Now again, when I'm making 20 sprays, I want to focus it everywhere. So here's the thing. You don't need to over saturate the scalp. All you need to do is make sure it gets into the scalp. So me and you don't have to worry, but people with longer hair, if they're just spraying it into the hair and not massaging it into the scalp, it's going to go into the hair follicles. I'm not going to. Yeah. I'm totally blind. What I do is I comb all my hair forward, get it out of the way of my scalp. Because I do comb some of the back, obviously, and then I put it right here. I've been using it for about three weeks, maybe you said. Yeah. So I'll see what happens. I don't like to get too excited, but I do notice some little hairs. I don't know if it's really, if it's real or not. So I'm going to keep letting it grow, and I'll keep applying it. Now, I wanted to just tell you a funny story because my son likes to go into my bathroom and explore like he's into sprays now. He thinks he's like a hit beautician. So he goes and he takes my daughter, my three-year-old daughter, he's five, and he styles her hair. I came into my bathroom and it's been very quiet in there. And I was horrified. He was using the copper. That's fine. Like it was like, he was like, spraying water on there. So I'm like, no, don't touch my stuff. It's like, what? So you're saying you need a couple of hours. Yeah, but if my daughter's not growing really, really thick hair, we'll know it works. So. So on that, so Victor Black, I think you know Victor. Yeah. He just posted a big thing on his Instagram. So he's been using it since May 12, now May 13, and he posted on Monday, which would have been what? So one month, and he literally like mine, like re-group his hair from the Volkswagen the back. I mean, it's not like, you know, super thick. But he re-grouped a lot. So I mean, we definitely have thousands of people out there that are using it that are getting re-grouped. Now, it is important that I'm glad you said it. If you are not living an optimized lifestyle, and what does that mean? You're inflamed. Okay. You will not get the best results because you don't have the optimal one for. So people are like you said. Type one diabetics, high blood sugar, high insulin. You are not going to get the same results as somebody that has less inflamed. Gotcha. Infirmations, but when I go for my, and you can test your inflammation guys in your body by going for a C-reactive protein test, I mean, I know I see people come back high on the C-reactive mine. Mine is always like 0.001 or something like that. It's very, very low. Cause I eat a very anti-inflammation diet to begin with, just because I know it's good for you. And a lot of people are very inflamed, like you said. So it's good to take you to your fish or oils and something like that and help reduce inflammation your body. Start stay away from sugar or something like that. Get control of your blood sugar. Now, Jay, you know, people are going to ask me because you know, I've been taking finance for 20 years. Okay. But I'm a very high DHG converter, just in general. So I really, I don't know if it ever made me stop losing hair or not. I, that's what I took it for, but I knew my father had prostate problems of like that. So I took it more as a, as a protective effect. Because when I got my DNA tested about two years ago, I also, it showed that I'm a very high DHG converter. So I'm on no hormone replacement whatsoever. I don't think any testosterone, nothing. And I take 2.5 million of the finance right today. And my DHG levels are in the normal mid range. So you can imagine how high they would be if I did. I just am a big DHG converter. But for people who are not, let's say, what's wrong with, or what's wrong with the idea of DHG causes hair loss? Because I know you're against that whole school. So I mean, it's a very complicated question. You know, I will definitely say that we wrote an article which you have access to now that will publish on Ben Greenfield's website a week from yesterday. So it was at the 20th second. And people who don't know who Ben, can you explain who Ben is? Yeah. So Ben Greenfield's a big biohacker. You know, it's got like three or four million people that follow up. And you know, we wanted to him. My partner and I also did a podcast with him, recently, that breaks tomorrow, which will be Thursday, June 17th, breaking down the DHG inhibition theory of hair loss. So anyway, the question, I would just tell people that it'll be on the internet. There'll be an 8,500 word article with all the science. No one reads it. No one reads it. Give us the read is digested. No one reads it's right. Except people like me in New Day, no one reads anymore. You're right. You're right. So the garden group basement understanding is this. DHG inhibition was once thought to be the primary cause or the causal agent of hair loss. We now know that it is not even close to that. It is if anything, it is a secondary downstream potentiator of hair loss. So all that, you know, finance derived, and by the way, I know thousands of guys like you, then if you guys have been taken, you know, did you stop your hair loss potentially? Yes, but have you addicted your body or, you know, committed your body to being attached through that drugs, mechanism of action to stopping DHG formation. And now the question is, is if you stop taking the finaster, right? Yeah. Is your hair going to all fall out? I mean, for you, it's different because you've had the transplant stuff. Well, guys, the hair in my back of my head, too. So yeah, yeah. Well, that's what I'm saying. So I really take it for maintenance. So I don't even care if it doesn't anything. I just want to keep my DHG imbalance, you know? Right. No, no, no, for you, it's a different story. But for most people, it goes back to like, when you and I are talking about testosterone, and like why you don't want to use an AI, you don't want to inhibit any biological systems, because as I always say, God is a lot smarter than Big Borma. Okay. And there's always downstream negative side effects that can happen. Now again, not everybody experiences these with DHG, right? But we now know that you can regrow your hair much better than using a DHG blocking that hemadro. That's the exact same science that's going on here for a talk. That's the science is what we now know is the primary causal agent of hair loss is blood flow to the follicles in the scalp. Now, do you think the reduction of blood flow to the follicles in the scalp happens to be a genetic time clock that goes off in some people? Because I look at guys like, you know, Jay Coler, he's got a full head of hair, the guy that loses a, the guy never lost a hair on his head from all the years of bodybuilding and using your gear and stuff like that. I mean, is it genetic that some people, because blood supply gets cut off if they have a predestosist to that? And other people, they're just, they're blood supply to the scalp is amazing. I mean, why do some people lose hair or not? Yes. Yes. I mean, there's basically five causes. Okay, but the answer is yes. Okay, it's, it's rushing the wet. It's biochemical individuality, but micro inflammation's in the scalp. Okay, genetics, right, androgenic alopecia. Right. And then you have lifestyle. So the more inflamed that you are in your life and obviously inflammation is, you know, multi-causal as well, the more likely you're going to have hair loss at a various time or point. And by the way, this is also for women. Women who have poor sleep habits, who are stress cases, who worry all the time, they also lose their hair a lot faster than people that are. Now obviously this is kind of subjective, but there's no question that everything boils down to the blood flow to the scalp. So yes, a guy like Jeff Jay Culler is genetically blessed because we all know that he did all sorts of things to look the way he did when he was competing. And he didn't lose hair whereas other guys just look it up, you know, at PhD drug and their hair falls out. Right. Right. So what's the solution to reduce inflammation in the scalp is this is this going to be the new, you know, standard that that hair loss clinics and people are going to basically say, hey, look, we could restore your hair with giving you hair graphs, but you've got to use these copper peptides. We've got to use this carbon 90 or a carbon 66, it needs to help absorb it or whatever version, whatever, you know, I guess you could say, compounding and you're going to use to help the absorption. It's copper peptide going to be the standard hat for hair loss. So from a angiogenesis effect, 100%. So what does angiogenesis mean? Again, stimulating the blood flow, red blood cell formation in these target area of application. So angiogenesis is the primary mechanism of action that we want to target to, again, regrow the hair follicle. Now, what are other things that you can do? Yes, so the absorption agent of, you know, think of it as like a super, a sponge, an oxidative sponge to pull in the angiogenic effect of the carbon 60. But you can also, and you said it earlier in the show, what's most important from an aging standpoint is improving mitochondrial function. Okay. So if we strike it and improve the mitochondria, then, you know, therefore, we will also improve the replication of the cells and all of the various things that cause aging, which is, as you know, telemere lengthening and detangling and then also anti-oxinants. So if we improve the mitochondria, which we can do, and by the way, in the article and I'll share it with your listeners, you know, we create a stack, we say, okay, this is the J and Nick's stack to regrow your own hair to the maximum allowable. And by the way, I want to say this on your show, if you have an endogenic alopecia, okay, so I had that, obviously you had that. You can still stop it if you start doing these things early enough. You just have to be much more militant and, you know, an orative than somebody who's like J color. Does that make sense? Yeah, let me ask this question. Since I'm 53, you know, can I regrow hair at this point? I mean, is it possible to get my scalp to start producing 100% do- Do-hairs. 100% you can regrow your hair even over the grafts that you had. Here's how you do it. So, you know, not being a shield. Because no, it's not a mistake. Just for people who don't know, when they do grafts, they only do it in the front because no one has enough donor hair to do your whole hair. So, right, and that looks, you know, whatever, gives you like a receding hairline, and that's fine. But you know, we all want our little bald spot to be, you know, filled in too there. So the only, you know, we've been waiting to get them to grow hair in a petri dish. They've been promising that for 20 years. No one's done it. So, I think the best bet, like you said, is growing your own hair back. That's exactly right. And I wish I had this picture, I would show the screen of Victor's hair because he has that bald spot. But whatever, you can post it all, post the link in the comments after this is over. But, so that's all you do it. Okay. You use our product as the base immediately. And again, remember, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, scalp massage 30 seconds 40 seconds, let it dry. I put serum B, which is the carbon 60, which again, and I haven't said this yet. It's in an oil extract of grape seed oil. So, Dave, you know, this grape seed oil is a very fine, misty oil. So, when you put it in your scalp, it actually adds, it looks like a product. Yeah, it looks like I put like my, some gel in my hair, something like that. Yeah, exactly. So, you could see mine right now. There's a tiny bit of oil in it. That's, that's the beat. Oh, okay. I usually have to push up. Yeah, a lot of people love that. You know, Chris Gethon is a big user of our product. And he's like, when he talks about it, he's like, I don't use product anymore. Yeah. Now imagine, dude, this is something new. And I should talk about, imagine what kind of damage we do to our hair, where we put these garbage products like shampoo and conditioner and all these things that we put into our scalp, look at the chemical constituents in these things. Right. People shouldn't even wash their hair, truthfully. They should just wash it with water. Jay, let me just tell you something. I'm a very greasy Italian. The grease that comes out of me, you can cook, you can saute, chicken, Nutton, it. So I can't be putting too much oils in my hair. It would be really good. I'm just saying that my hair. Well, I'm doing my podcast. So what I do is I take a shower at night. I use a shampoo that's not like, I use one of these shampoo from online too, that they just says it's a carbonic acid or some other crap. But when you just scare scalp, I don't know if it does anything. And then I get an average shower. I let my hair dry. I let my scalp dry. And then I put your products in. And then I go to sleep after that. And then it's part of the morning. I get up and I do another shampoo with that other product. And then because I can't walk around and grease in my hair all day. Because like I said, by midday, as Tyler, I'll have oil running down my face. Yep. No, no, no, look. And I totally get that. And again, that's a genetic thing with sea boom. Some people just overproduce oil and stuff like that. So I totally get that. But like, if you really did like a deep dive on hair health, most people are putting shit in their hair oil time. Oh, it's hot. You're right. So I mean, it's crazy. But that's exactly what you should do. OK, so you do that. OK. And then, again, this is like a state of the artist. I'm going to put you in the slide here. Do you die you hair? No, dude, this is literally straight up from the product. My hair, you can see I have gray. I'm close cropping side. The reason I ask you, you kind of gray in the size of your very dark on top, why is that? So that's another advantage of the product is it goes to your natural root color. Oh, real? So when people see me, they're like, bro, are you fucking dying your hair? I'm like, no, this is literally from Oxeno. Oh, wow. OK, because I used to die, but I stopped. And then, you know, now I have a lot of grays in this. I'll be interested to see if it my hair grows out darker. I still have grays. You can see, look, I have tons of grays. I'm salt and pepper, but this is from Oxeno. All right. I'm going to try it. It's pretty nuts. But then again, dude, I've only been using Oxeno. We never got into that story. It would happen to the company. But I've only been using Oxeno now consistently for three months. OK. So I have completely, for the most part, regram a hair and again, I already had the Vantice micro pigmentation done on the top of my scalp. Yeah, yeah. So I was going, but anyway, what do you do? You put this on? Then you do red light therapy to your scalp. Now you can buy a cap. You can just use one of those juice six minutes, eight minutes, whatever. What is that? OK. No, I'm getting really deep here now. You also use, Oh, what is the red light therapy, dude? Explain. So the red light therapy increases mitochondrial function. OK. So all of the mitochondria in the scalp are going to be tuned up. So that's obviously going to help with the geogenesis. It's just a regular red light bulb. But what is it? Is it infrared? Oh, well, I mean, there's a million days. There's so many now. I mean, if you get into dork speak about red light, it's due to the flicker rate, bro. But I mean, I use the juice that that's just a company that I fill it for. There's a million of them, though. So long as you get red light therapy on the scalp, you know what the truth is? I'll never do it. So I'm not going to skip that. Well, look, dude, you could literally you or guy like you could just call one of these guys like restore, I restore, whatever. And just say, hey, let just send me a cap. And I'll promote you guys. But I mean, they do have little caps that you can wear for like 10 minutes a day. I know, but I don't know if I'll put it on. You know, maybe we could turn the studio lights into red lights. And I can just I'll be all day long. I'll be hit by red light this way. I literally, there you go. So red light would be secondary. Now, again, I'm getting dorky here. You want to drink dutarium depleted water. Now, this is Icelandic water with the Ethereum depletion in size. What is the term like depletion? So deuterium depletion is. I know what the terium is, but I don't know what deuterium depletion is. So basically, there's two companies on the planet right now with depletion water of deuterium. So you already know what deuterium is. So basically, deuterium is in our cells. And deuterium is what causes us to die. We fucking die at a hundred, ten, hundred, fifteen, whatever we shut off, due to the effective deuterium in our cell. So if you deplete deuterium, you massively stimulate mitochondria functioning. Why is deuterium, which is not heavy water? Exactly. Why is that bad for you? Oh, dude, it's terrible for the cells. It destroys the functioning of the nanomotors in the mitochondrial. It completely shuts down your mitochondria. The reason you're mitochondria stop functioning optimally at like 55, 60 is because deuterium. So if you start drinking deuterium depletion water, you're going to massively upregulate your mitochondria. We're getting deuterium depletion water. Now you turn me into a complete neurotic now. You know that? I can't do these interviews with you, Jay anymore. Where do you get this water? I'll send you a link for a, so I've been using deuterium depletion water for about four months now. Do you want to make your own or not? Do I make my own? Do you make your own, too? Do they have any water filters to make your own deuterium? No, you got a bite, man. Sox, who makes it? And it's expensive. Who makes it? Who makes it? There's a company called White Water. It's drinklightwater.com. That's where you get it. Oh, it. You drink only that water. And you can just have a couple of bottles. No, no, no. So you just basically you take their water and you deplete your liquid sources. So you can even do it with like wine, you know, whatever you drink, you just add some of the deuterium to clean it water. And you do it for like 90 days until you get, and then you take a test, like anything else. And you figure out where your level of deuterium is and your body, if once you get to a part's per million, your body is like maximum mitochondrial operation. Is there a kit that's determined this? Like what you're deuterium level? Well, you, what the company they send you, you know, you can buy the test. They want you to take it after like 90 days of using water and you'll see them. But I mean, I'll try. I mean, dude, it's, it's definitely, so I like infrared saunas. That's one of my things. But like between infrared saunas, drinking due to chrame to plate of water, it's all, it's a big time like biohack. It's, it's, it's pretty amazing. You definitely feel better energy. Guys in our world do, we'll get leaner. You will lose more belly fat, just naturally. Not doing it. I don't have any belly fat to lose, but I want to live longer. And I want to go out and out. You're blessed. But then the other stuff would be, you know, to add to it with the last thing would be to take either met foremen or like a burger and to massively suppress insulin. Again, circulating insulin. Because now they know and there's all sorts of studies coming out, bro. Yeah. That, you know, basically met foremen and like a burger and all of these like glucose suppressors or regulators, there's a massive improvement in mitochondrial function when you keep circulating insulin weight out. Yeah. Well, you know what, I, I, I, I, I mean, mitochondrial oxidized fat, so that would make sense. But my point then, what I use for mitochondrial function is PQQ. Have you used that? PQQ is amazing. I haven't, I'll take it every fucking day. It's expensive. I asked them to regenerate my mitochondrial. So the only issue with PQ is there is unless you have somebody that you, I don't know about, but like, it's, it's difficult to get it into the cells. So it's still a great product. Don't give you a, I just like extension. I don't know if there. I don't know if it's any good or not. Yeah, I take life extension too. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's a great product. So I mean, you know, I, you could throw that in, but in truth, I think met foremen or glycoberat is probably just a little bit stronger than that. Maybe I can go through. Met foremen is like, people have a digestive issues within. Bro, that met foremen is only a problem if you're diet sucks. Yeah. Because it's increase in agrimonia in your gut. So if you're a gut, if you have digestive issues on met foremen, that's basically a gut check. That's literally San Bro, you need to clean up. I have never tried it, but, oh, you, I mean, you don't need it because you're so, so ripped and you have such little, well, I didn't mean my butcher control is good, because you know, everyone can use a little better. Bloods and sugar control. How much do you take in the aim it? So, so let me just say, I'll get to that in a second, but let me just talk about met foremen. So it does so many things outside of the things that we talk about. It causes a pop toasts of tumors. It increases, I'm sorry, increases. It decreases all of the gunk in the dendric and synaptic pathways in the brain. Yeah. So if you're going to take like a supplement that is like an all-encompassing, you know, life-extending supplement met foremen. So I take a gram, AM and I take a gram, and P.F. Now, it's a lot. Most people take 500, 500, women take 252, 50. I've been taking a gram for about almost 10 years now. I used to take 500, I don't know, for 20. And by the way, I just had my metabolic health done with true diagnostic, and I'm 20.75. And I'm 50. What's your hemoglobin A1C? Super low, like 4.9. You know what, I was shocked. Mine came back at 4.6. I don't know how to do it. Same. That's right. That's right. Ever since the COVID hit, and I don't go out to eat every night anymore, I'm eating healthy. Well, you are a super freak. You're a mutant. But that's extremely low. Yeah, I thought it was a lab error to be honest. But I had done twice, and it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, I don't know. I mean, most people who are healthier at 5.3, I know. I know. I would have been happy at 5.2, believe me. I'm a shot. My wife thought I was lying. She's, I'm shocked. I'm amazing. That's literally amazing. But so that's it, man. So, you know, an angiotogenic stimulator, which obviously is going to be GHK. You know, I'm a little bit of a thing as a whole. I don't need to, you know, my, my, he would go to an AMOON C was 56. I got thyroid cancer. I had my thyroid removed, and that's when it all was sudden to drop down. I wonder if that has anything to do with it. Wow. Interesting. Isn't that weird? Yeah. I wonder if the thyroid cancer was, you know, fucking up my blood sugar. I don't know. I mean, it definitely could have. Did they remove your entire thyroid? Yeah, the whole thing's gone. I'm on replacement. So what are you taking as a replacement? Are you taking, uh, desiccated or just teeth through? No, I just take, I take like the generic, you know, of L.F. I rock scene, you know, T.B. Right. My, my dinosaur right whatever you want. I said, well, let's see if it works. It's cheap, you know. I don't care if it's, yeah. That's, they're in the job. My T.3 levels are normal high, and my T.4 is normal. So, I mean, you're so lean. It wouldn't matter. I would just say be careful because usually, if you're not getting something to supplement T.1 and T.2 to, you can get it in balance, but I mean, for you, it doesn't probably matter. Yeah. I don't know. We'll see. I don't know if it, it was just weird. It seemed like just when I got that done, that's when my hemoglobin A-Metese dropped. Now, my surgeon originally thought, well, maybe it was due to the fact that you lost some blood during the surgery, and, you know, you hemoglobulin levels went down, but now it's been, you know, four months, five months, whatever, and I'm still low. So, well, that's interesting. Interesting. Interesting. Anyway, let's get back to Harold's. So, what do people want to get this product from you? What, what, what's the procedure? How much did they need, what's the cost per month? You know, give me that stuff. Yeah, it's good question. So, so right now, the product is $249, and for most people, depending again on your length of hair and also the rate of loss, it can last 90 days. So, it's, okay, that's good deal. I mean, when you really look at the cost versus the benefit, I mean, give me a break, you know, people are fan, yeah, you know what, guys pay for a Rimm and X, right, let's, I mean, I mean, I did, I did, I did. I mean, I got you still using a Rimm and X, dear, come on. Okay, you know what, some people just need. But my point is, I'm talking about the hormone placement, I'm talking about guys, you know, like body builders, that are, that are on drugs. I mean, they spend way more than that. That's, that's, yeah, I got, that's a lot. I got a few bucks a month you're talking about, right? Yeah, I mean, exactly between 50 and 75. But it's $75, $75, $75, $75, $75, $75, $75, $75. Yeah, I mean, you know, you can get, you know, we'll say, you know, here's the question show is a discount. Here's the question. Before you get to know this, Carol. Let's say I take it for six months. My hair, why do you think? You do not. It's a great question. You do not. It's not, it's not like the DHT inhibition where you're attached to the follicles and the apps that you're on it. No, but you definitely want to maintain, you know, that angiogenic effect in the scalp. So what we're doing and we're not there yet, but we are developing, well, two things that's important for listening audience is the product right now is a two phase, again, Cerema, GHA, Cerembi, the Nanomolecule carbon 60. It will be a one phase product by end of September. Oh, really? Okay, so you need to put it together. That's good. Exactly. And we have a provisional pattern on that right now. It's basically going to be able to tell people, it's going to be a light basomal, right? So the oil base, it's encapsulated in the water. And it ultimately will probably not be a sprayer anymore. It's probably going to be like a dropper, you know, pop it in, drop it in where you have the, the, the, the, the, the, the, I'll tell you one thing, J. though, when metrics first came out in the early 90s, they had the base and the plus and you did two scoops of each, and then you blend it up, I kind of liked that better than the one pack, even though the one pack was a little bit more convenient. The only problem is, is like, believe me, if you remember, you see the first, the first formulation was a, was a dispenser. Wow. And again, the B was in, um, MCTOL, so as much, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah. But oil, air, and grease. I'm just kidding, I'm sure it'll be amazing. So I mean, the women, it's a great question. And, and, and, and, you know, some guys will say, and this is actually important for listeners to know this. And again, I didn't know this might, my, my, you know, Nick, my partner, really, kind of, knew this. So a lot of guys in the hair plate is due, and you know that a lot of these guys that won't mention their names, they have foam, mooses. Yeah. And that shit is worthless because guess what? As we already said, it doesn't get into the scalp. It's going into the hair shafts, right? So all those guys making foam mooses are not getting into the scalp, which is where you need to get regrowth and regentuses. So it's all about penetration and into where you need to get it. Absolutely. Okay. 100%. So two your question, because it's the best question. Yeah. We are creating a scalp product that will be considered Oxano evening. So the product that you and I are using in thousands of people around the world, we're using right now, which is just called Oxano Grow version two, will become Oxano Day. Okay. And then the night version will be what you're doing right now. So you already hacked it. You take a shower, you leave your hair a little bit damp, and then you're going to take this dropper, and you're going to apply it in your scalp, and you're going to go like this. Yeah, we're going to go to bed. So I got somebody to do twice a day now. I mean, you will for if you want like super regress. I want super growth. I want to do it. I want the best. Don't don't don't go lightly on me here, Ajay. No, no, wait, I can definitely tell you this, the version, the night version, Oxano evening, will be stronger than Oxano Day, and reason why is, well, it's going to have a couple more peptides that we don't have in it for hairy growth. But most importantly, when you're sleeping, you cannot create micro-information. Sure. I'm just starting the day, you're outside, you're sweating. You're, you're, you're Italian, and you have all sorts of sebum. Yeah, exactly. So you'll get much better regress at night sleeping with this product. Then you would during the day, put it in. But there's no question that when you put version or a very product and evening's product, you're going to get tremendous growth. I'm looking forward to your office, Santham. Now, now, we have a link. We have a banner on our Exmusule.com. I'm going to be putting up and on my daypalombo.com website. And you can go click on that banner and get over to your site. Is there a discount or something like that? Yeah, absolutely. So for all of your listeners, you'll be able to take 15% off. It's huge, 15. Huge, 15 is the 15. And the link is just a searcostum.com board's last huge. Okay, and they can just click on the banner guys off of either website, my website or the art's muscle site and it'll be just easier. And just use the huge 15 code and you'll get 15% off your order. Look, I like the fact that it's not something you hooked into for life. Guys, do it for three months. Try and see what you get. If you get hairy growth, keep doing it. That's what I always tell people just do your own experiment. Because you know what, I have to believe, Jay, that every person will respond differently. You're going to have the high-priced partners that have amazing growth. Cause maybe they have like you said tremendous inflammation. And then you might have people that have maybe some growth, but not as much because maybe that's not the issue that they have. I don't know. Exactly. No, that's exactly right, Jay. There's nothing perfect for anybody, but I will definitely say that if you are living a healthy, low inflammation lifestyle. And you attempt to grow your hair with this product. And obviously follow the instructions and watch the demonstration videos. Right. And it'll be very hard for us for me to think that you won't get some growth. Now, we do have people that regrowth our hair in two weeks. Most people, Steve regrowth within 45 to 60 days. And then you know, I was just talking to Victor Black about this this morning. He's in Thailand. The strongest, most pronounced effect is between day, 50 and day, 90. That's when you really see like the hair just coming back. And you're kind of like what the hell. That's yeah, I always believe in look. You got it. You got to put the work in. You got to put the stuff on. You got to follow the instructions. There's a lot of people after two weeks they get bored and they stop doing it. They miss their applications. Once you do that, it's like not going to the gym, miss and workout. So missing meals, doing it. You're not going to get the best results we need to do that. You got to be super crazy in a rotic like I am. Otherwise, you're not going to get good, good results. It's totally true. If it's in your fat and you're inflamed. You're not going to get the same results because you do not have blood flow to your scalp. Again, it's all about how do I get the optimal blood flow to my scalp. I use this part. You just get my head. Is that going to help or anything? I mean, in theory, you would get better blood flow to your scalp. You know that neuro, what does it call this scalp? I forget to. So here's something we didn't talk about. If you took your hands and you lifted the skin, right? Like really tight right here. We all have like a genetic level of skin right around here. Some of us is much tighter than others. It's called the neuros research. Well, look, in a lot of the newest research, they know that the people that have the most laxity right here have the worst hair loss because again, it can't get in. They have really a lot of micro inflammation in the skin. So the tighter your skin is right around here, the better you're going to maintain your hair for life. Interesting. I didn't know that. I'm this a true story. I'll leave us with this story because I had a crazy doctor friend to mind. He's no longer with us. May he rest in peace, doctor Mike. He was like one of these novel, you know, original thinkers. And you know, there's a strip of connected tissue underneath your scalp. I think it was called now. It's, I can't think of it. But it's a thick band of connected tissues as you get older and thicker. It's a must that you think that that could be, you know, his theory was that that's what caused hair loss. As it thickened and response to whatever stress, inflammation, right? And he's right. He actually, this is a true story. I swear to you, this is true. He found a surgeon crazy enough to remove his. So he peeled his head back and they took that band of connected tissue off because he was, and he was convinced he was going to grow back his hair after doing this. This was back in the 90s. And they, they, I mean, you can't make this stuff up. They closed them back up. He looked like a sharp pay as head after that because it was someone even, you know. And unfortunately, he passed away, like, a couple years later, not nothing because of that, obviously. But the point is that I don't know if that was the right thing to do. But you know, what was he using the Charter League role as hair? Nothing, because they didn't have anything. They used me in the oxenel back then and, you know, and put him in practice, and finaster, right? That was it. That's that. Yeah. People will ask, because we get that question all the time, can I continue my script, monoxidil, with this product? And technically, you could potentially have more hairy growth but as you know, Dave, monoxidil, if you stop using it in a lot of users, has that potential of losing your hair. So we say, just work on improving the health of the follicle. Kill the monoxidil, use this, use the other thing. And by the way, we didn't mention this, we should. You can absolutely use PRP. You can absolutely use exosomes on top of this. So this would be... Them cells stuff. Them cells stuff. Maybe exosomes in the beginning of the year, PRP at the end of the year. But that would be it. And all of those, again, commodity red light, due to the period of the fleet of water, met four minutes like a Berberin, you definitely should get in very regrowth. And you know what, I wanted to just say this, you know, when I breed snakes, okay, and reptiles, people that I talk about this all the time. And to get a lot of these snakes to breed, there's certain triggers, daylight cycles, there's... Absolutely. Dropping the temperatures during the winter months because that stimulates breeding, there's just a million different like little tricks that you can do. And you don't have to do them all. If there's enough, if you push enough buttons, in other words, the snake will breed. Same thing with hair, regrowth. JJ's gave you 40 different things to do. Don't get overwhelmed. You don't have to do every single one of them. Right. That's the key. You don't have to do every... There could be 100,000 things you could find in the internet. Pick the ones of the most potent. And I recommend picking one or two because if you do too many variables, you don't know which ones are actually doing something and not doing something. So, you know, try that copper peptide, you know, combination, the oxana. You know, listen to J in terms of, you know, fixing your diet, getting a blood sugar on the control, reducing inflammation, and seeing if that works. If it works great, you don't need to do 40 other things. If it doesn't work, it doesn't work effectively. And nothing tries to start adding some of these other variables. But you could overwhelm yourself, because I know I get overwhelm with this type of stuff sometimes too. But it's not, you don't have to do everything. There's only a couple. Once you trigger the hair to start growing again, you'd done your job. Right. Spend two or exactly Dave. You're 100% right. Two or 49 bucks. Give yourself 60 to 90 days, depending on how long your hair is. If you can find a $50 in there out there, a $50 portable hair light cap, you know, after you put this shit on, put that on for six minutes, and then that's it. You don't have to do anything else. Yeah. Give it 60, you know, give it 60 days. You will see some degree growth again, assuming you're not inflamed or disease. And by the way, we didn't say this. If you have COPD, and I don't think many of your listeners do. But if you have COPD, or you have another serious blood issue, you definitely won't work, because you're not getting blood flowed. Guys, go. All right. I'm going to tell you this. I'm not doing anything other than the stuff you're sending me, because I want to see if it works. Because I'm not putting a million different variables. I'm only going to do that. I might look into the deterioration of the pleater water if it's not to, if it's not going to make me too much of a nut case. But other than that, I'm not doing anything else. I'm sticking with my normal regimen because I want to actually see how much hair I really grow with your formula. And everyone knows my audience. I'm very honest in terms of it. If it works, I'll say it works. If it doesn't work, I'll tell people did work on me. But I trust the science makes sense to me. I like it because you're very analytical like I am and very scientifically gear. It makes sense. I'm going to give it a shot. Anyone else I want to give it a shot? You can check out the website. Use the code huge 15 to get 15% off. And give us your feedback. Put them in the comments below. If you've gotten good results or if it works, let us know. We'll get J back. And when the new formula comes out, we'll talk a little bit more about that. And J, I greatly appreciate you coming on the show. And educating not only my audience, but me as well today. And I mean, that's an honor, man. Guys, smart as you do. I actually just gave you the link to the article that my copyright owner and I wrote on Dutier even to play the water. It's cool. Exactly. It's perfect for you because it's like, what the hell is this? Why would I use this? And how do I do it? It's pretty simple. But yeah, I mean, that's advanced stuff. But yeah, I'd man, I appreciate you for always bringing me on your show. And it's an honor. And I look forward to the future. I'm using the vitalizing plus right now. I'm spinning my water. Do you do it yet? Have you seen that? The... I have. I'm birthed from a river. I mean, that would actually be something you would add or throw in after. I mean, did all you have to do is just drink the solution. You ought to say it's heavy water. It's depleted heavy water. And just throw it into your current liquids. And it's 90 days. I mean, I want you to do it 90 days in test. Right. And then you'll prevent your love testing. You don't have to keep drinking it. You don't, Jail, tell you one thing. I'll leave you with this. I know we keep extending this show, but people like this stuff. I took a heavy metal at home test. Like where you could actually test you, a heavy metals. Yeah. And I came at client-led. I'm like, what the frick did I get led from? So I'm thinking maybe I was in New York, my facility, my dad, because it was cement dust there all the time. Sure. Sure. So I said, you know what? Before I start getting crazy. Okay. Let me go for a blood work at Quest. So I had my doctor friend, Sammy, physics, and you know what? I came back normal. So you know, take it for, you know, sometimes, you know, these at home, everyone's at home testing now themselves. Sometimes they're not that accurate, because when you have to send your blood through the mail, and it might take two weeks for them to actually test the blood, contaminants happen, blood cells break down. So, you know, make sure you get tested at a good accredited facility. Don't trust everything at home. So I can tell people with blood sugar monitors. They're not that they're not 100% accurate sometimes. So you've got to go and get your blood tested at a lab. Right. Check your hemoglobin A1C in a lab. I also did in that home hemoglobin A1C, and it came back wrong too. So just to let people know that sometimes it's better to pay a few extra dollars and get it done by a professional. Agreed. All right. Thank you, Jay. Keep us updated. I appreciate all the knowledge, and you will be back because I love having these conversations with you. For now, though, we are out of time on day polo, with Jay Campbell for another edition of Goot Roo Talk.

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. For you is only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is multi-millionaire real estate developer. But more importantly, a man who made an incredible physique transformation proving that you can do anything if you put your mind to it. The man I'm talking about is Anthony Lali, welcome to the show. Thank you. Thank you for having me. I'm a big fan. I would have never imagined being on this show two years ago. You used to be in on Fox News and stuff like that. Having people ask you about how you make money and real estate. Yes, yes. I've made over 2,000 media appearances. I was a regular on Fox. I remember. Yes. But this actually means a lot more to me because this is like the next chapter in my life. This is health as well. Well, you know what the truth is? You can't buy health, but you have to, you know, you could have all the money in the world, but if you don't want to put the hard work into it, you're not going to get it out. And that's, there's a sacrifice to involve in everything you do. And I think there's a huge disconnect from making money to actually change in the way you look and feel. Don't you think? Absolutely. I think that the same principles apply. You know, I think that there's a lot of people that have a standard of excellence in the things that they do in business, but they don't apply it to their bodies. All I did was just cross over, same thing that Arnold did. You know, he applied the same principles of bodybuilding and applied it to his business career. I just did the complete opposite and it worked. It's hard to do the complete opposite because when you become, when you make a lot of money, it's like, well, you know, you want to just enjoy yourself. That's the mentality and you were enjoying yourself maybe a little too much, obviously. And that's, you know, where you went wrong. What point did you say to yourself, you know what? I'm going to die and not even be able to enjoy my family. I'm not going to be able to enjoy all this money I made. I got to do something about it. What point did you say I had enough? Well, you know, everybody who's obese has this threshold, you know? And in bodybuilding, you know, they call it, what is it? Progressive overload, right? Yeah. It was a body of that. So people have a fat progressive overload. So my threshold was 300 pounds. Anytime my touch 300 pounds, then I started getting all the ailments, the sleep at the, the chest pains, all these type of things. Wow. Then all of a sudden the seat belt extend around the airplane. I can't get on the roller coaster ride. Right. I can't, you know, do do the fun things anymore. And so at that point, it was just ridiculous. But, you know, in, in, in, in my documentary, I talk about an incident with my daughter that changed my life because I just didn't want to be a fat embarrassing dad for my kids, you know, because kids can be pretty cruel, pretty mean. And I didn't want them making fun of my daughter for their dad or my son for that matter. Right. And it, and you, you were a dad who came into big a dad much later, like, you know, kind of my, myself. I mean, you're in your 40s and you, you know, you're starting to have kids. And so you didn't really care about the way you looked earlier. But, you know, you grew up, I was watching your documentary. You grew up as, as always, in an overweight kid, which had to come into play side and logically, because I'm kids are cruel. I know. I've seen it. I, I, I, I, I'm sure I was, you know, not the best kid either, because I was never overweight. And you make fun of the fat kids. I mean, and that's unfortunate that the kids do that. But it happens. How did that affect you psychologically? Um, you know, growing up in Brooklyn, you got to get tough, you know, and you got to get rough. So, you know, it does affect you. You know, you, you, you see things like, even as a little boy, mothers would, would bend over and talk to their kids and point that mean. See, you see that if you keep eating like that, you're going to look like him. Yeah. You know, little incidents like that happen. And they stick with you. Uh, and then throughout your adulthood, but you know, when you become successful in the world is your oyster and you're not losing and you're wearing suits, you're hiding the fat in your finding ways to adapt. And then then societies telling you, it's okay to be overweight. It's okay to be yourself and all this kind of stuff. So you start buying into all that. Right. Now, when you were growing up, did your parents like try to put you on diet, or would they be enablers who fed you? Yeah, they tried, you know, they tried to put me on the hack in, they tried. I was an only child. So, you know, it's hard. It's a cross between being spoiled as an only child with love and caring. And then at the same time, just eating, you know. But there's only so much a parent can do, you know, when you get to the point where you have access to doing things. I always was kind of like an entrepreneur even in my younger years, even before I was even a teenager, I was selling whatever I could get my hands on hard work. I was drawing and selling lemonade, whatever. I was always able to kind of make my own money. But that money was going into cheese doodles and popcorn and things like that. Where did this entrepreneurial spirit come from? Because your mother was a teacher, if all those are the teacher, right? Yeah, what happened was my mom was an immigrant from Ecuador. She migrated here, lived in an abandoned building, worked in sweatshops and then worked in abuse alone and then worked taking care of old people. My dad was a World War II veteran. He moonlighted as an insurance broker and then during the times of Elvis Presley, he learned how to play the guitar. He started tutoring everybody, how to play the guitar. He wanted to be Elvis. Oh wow. In his era. So, then he became a public school teacher. But he was moonlighting to make ends meet, doing photo with the parody. He had a blue and gold McCorn and shoulder and he would take pictures of tourists with a Polaroid cabra and little Italy and then all the way to the entrepreneurial. It was an entrepreneurial. So, I saw the hostless spirit. Yeah, that's crazy. Where did he teach? He taught in New York, he even taught in New Jersey. He taught all grades. He taught music, math, science. So, he was a man about town. Yeah, my dad was an English teacher in high school for 35 years. So, I can relate to that. And his later years, he actually taught in Rikers Island, prison. He high school of the GED program. Oh, that was interesting to see some of these prisoners after they got out of prison. Because he would teach them how to tie a tie, how to do an interview, who's a public beyond. They'd come to the house and visit and say, thank you, you know, for you, I got a job, I got a car and a ride. And a lot of these guys were muscular. That's funny. That's amazing. The influence you made, you made people. I know my dad taught the actor, Eric, or Strahta. My dad actually talked to him into going into acting, believe it or not. He later came back and thanked my dad for that as well. So, I could understand how, you know, giving teaching is an important, you know, professional. A lot of people don't put enough, I guess you could say, status behind teachers anymore. And I think that's a mistake. Yeah, well, I think now that the pandemic happened, I think a lot of parents, I really, really, really want the teachers back these days. Yeah, they don't want to homeschool the kids. That's why I don't want to homeschool bikers. I want to matter the house, you know. So, let's talk about, okay, so, at 19 years old, is that when you started your first real estate business? Yeah, when I was 19, you know, I was going to a community college and I knew that wasn't going to make me rich. I said, I had a high taste and a high lifestyle that I wanted. I was very ambitious. So, I dropped out and pursued a real estate career. I got my real estate license. And, you know, I remember sitting there in the classroom and the instructor was saying, you can be a millionaire, you can do this, you can do that. And I raised my hand. I said, sir, if that's the case, then why didn't you do that? Right. And then he pulled me to the side after class. He said, you know what Anthony? I understand what you're saying, but guess what? I owned this real estate school and here's how much 20,000, you know. And so, at that point, I knew he was making a million and a half dollars a year. So, I said, no problem, sir, I'm going to pay attention. Yeah. And then at that point, I formulated my plan. I said, I'm going to get my real estate license. I'm going to learn everything about real estate. Be a really good salesperson. But I said, I'll be damned if I have access to all of these multi-building owners and real estate owners and not pick their brains. Find out how they did it. Right. So, I started, you know, getting them as my mentors. I was bringing something to them, selling or renting their properties. And they were bringing something to the table to me. Interesting. Who is the most influential person that you encountered over the years? I think it's a mixture. There's just not one, you know. Be across between a lot of the landlords. I had a cousin. I talked about in a book that I wrote, who was a very successful entrepreneur, an alarm guy. My brother, I have a half brother for my mother's side. Became a very successful guy in the technology business. So, I had a lot of people that I aspired and admired around me. Even from, you know, remember, I was a young guy in business. So, I had to do business with attorneys and title guys and insurance brokers. And I was doing business with the owner. So, I saw and got a chance to work with them in their office and saw how they managed to staff. But, you know, when you're a new business owner, a big deal is getting a secretary. Being able to afford a secretary salary, you know. Right. Finally, you know, giving a, you know, sharing the workload with somebody else, being able to stress somebody else that can do something what you do. That's what I wanted to ask you. I've had historically problems with getting, you know, employees who are willing to work as hard as I am, you know, to have a side thing. And, you know, how do you train people, or find the right people to put into positions of importance where, you know, that, hey, my business is riding on this position, I have to worry about this person doing his good job as I would do. I think the analogy I can give you is, it's kind of like being a coach, right? I'm going to coach you to the Olympia. Right. So, a lot of these people, you need to talk to them. What do you want to do with your life? How long do you want to work? I know I'm going to be a stepping stone. Am I a stepping stone for one year, two years or three years? What, what, what, or six months? What is it? So, if you have that transparent conversation, they'll give you the best of themselves for that period of time. Yeah. You can't blame them. If your business is not growing enough to be able to increase staff, increase responsibilities, increase their salary. Yeah. Then you can't blame them for wanting to fly and going somewhere else. So, you're going to have to pay your dues with a lot of turnover, especially if you're not looking to pay top salaries. That's the thing. Most people get into business even if you own a gym. Everybody on your staff is not getting paid more than 20 bucks an hour. What are you expecting to happen? There's going to be a lot of turnover. So, you just have to condition yourself mentally to build a system that handles turnover. Gotcha. Interesting. Okay. That's very good advice. I think a lot of people don't realize that in their businesses, expect turnover and be prepared for it and then you won't be taken by surprise or light down, as what you say. Yes. Yes. Absolutely. You want to be the key player in your business. And if you have a good structure of training, then you don't mind the turnover. You don't mind that you like a fresh perspective. Some people get burnt out after a while. You embrace the turnover. Sure. Sure. Very good. Very good point. Now, let me ask you this question because 19 you start your own real estate. At what point do you say to yourself, I want to be just bigger than just, you know, what I can provide for myself and the words, what was your vision? Where did you get the idea that young and age to say, I want to have like a franchise of businesses? I mean, that's a pretty lofty, you know, golfer. Yeah. Yeah. It started way before that. When I was six years old, my mom would go to sex with the avenue she would try on mecoats and beautiful dresses and perfume. Put him back on the rack and we would leave. She'd never buy anything. Right. And she would look in front of the mirror and do turns. And she was basically fantasizing about those things. And in one of those visits, I saw a waterproof watch that I saw in a Saturday morning cartoon commercial that was like 12 bucks. And I was begging my mom to buy it. She didn't want to tell me why we couldn't buy it. Eventually she broke down in tears and said, I'm sorry Anthony, we can't afford it. Right. So as we were taking the bus back home, I told her one day I'm going to be so rich. I'm going to buy you a white limousine with a chauffeur and a white mansion. And you're going to go shopping and do whatever you want. And you'd go eat it that it's most expensive places and do whatever. And so many years later, I actually did those things. A little white mansion. I'd water her. She's had white rain drovers. She's had white hummers. That's awesome. Sadies. So, you know, it was that kind of drive that fire in my belly to change my family Wow, that's great. Now, during this whole, obviously building up this business and you have a unique real estate, if I understand correct, real estate businesses, unique. Because you only do rentals. Is that right? Yeah, what happened was I started and real estate like anybody else, you know, I was selling homes and then the 2007 hit and that was dead. So I completely shifted gears into rentals. I said, you know, the way you become the 1% is by servicing the 99%. So I focused on renting and then I became one of the biggest rental companies in New York City. Wow. So I really grew the brand. And while other companies were shutting down, you know, shuttering, closing doors, losing salespeople, I was growing. And then I got into the Billboard business and then I got into the real estate school business. And then everything just was synergistic. It was just all growing and growing and growing. And then of course, the media came in after that. And I started becoming a personality in the real estate industry. Now, I have to imagine, because I know I have a lot of businesses, not to the level that you would do, obviously. But the stress that is ensued, even though it's exciting, even though you're building things, there's a lot of stress because you got a lot of bills to pay, you got mortgages, you got employees. How did you deal with that stress? I mean, how did you manage it and how did you keep balancing your life? You know, although you didn't know how to manage it. Yeah, you were eating a lot. But how did you balance all that? I did a lot of partying too. I did a lot of partying. I had a bachelor pad where I had a behind my office. I had a duplex apartment. I would crash there. Every Friday we'd have a DJ. We had a jacuzzi. And we'd have like a bubble party and everybody would get their pay checks and celebrate. So we did a lot of partying. But I remember there was this one specific moment when I was 21 years old on the second property that I bought. I had a fire and somebody died in the building. It was an accidental. It was a candle fire. It was a 13th candle fire of that year. And they died a smoke inhalation, even though I had smoke detectors and everything. It was a tragic moment. I looked at my parents and my parents says, I don't know. I'm not in real estate. I don't know how I can help you with this. We love you. But this is something you wanted to do. And I remember it was like two o'clock in the morning. It was freezing cold. I was out there. And the lunch was there. The news was there. And then I called a buddy of mine. This really big, big time Greek landlord owned a bunch of buildings. And he last. I said, what do I do? What do I do? It's one of my mentors. He's Anthony. I own buildings. One of the elevator just got inspected. And there's a pregnant woman in it. The next day it falls down. He says, pick up your skirt and grab your bowls. Is either you're going to do this video. You want to be in this business or you don't want to quit right now or stick to it. Make a decision. So when I heard that this is just a part of the job. You did everything right. Life happens. As they say, shit happens. You just have to be able to kind of roll with the punches. That kind of shifted gears for me. Then I started looking at asking questions to a lot of these mentors about their hard times. What was some of the most difficult moments? So it shifted from aspiration to now just let me learn so I don't make those same mistakes. Now that's the the reason I asked this is a good transition because at some point this wisdom that they're giving you really needed to be applied to you personally because here you are, you know, trying to help the world out, trying to make a lot of money. You're very successful. But yet, obviously you're not happy in your body. There's no way I don't believe any overweight person is happy because they try to convince themselves they tell the public that but inside you have to be hurting because no one wants to look, you know, overweight. No one wants people to look at them as being pariahs or something wrong with them. How did you internalize that and accept it? And at what point, you know, I know you said you wanted to obviously for your health purposes but at what point did you say, that's it, I'm done. You know, my wife, my wife was very healthy. She always liked eating healthy. She always liked teaching those health habits to our children. Right. And I was the one eating off the kids menu. She's burger, mac and cheese, french fries and things like that. And so we didn't see it. I, on those things and I became a bad influence on the children. The children wanted to know why they have to eat vegetables and eat, you know, all these nice foods and then and I get to eat all this bad stuff. And so at one point I wasn't invited to eat at the table anymore with them because I was just a bad, a bad influence. So, you know, I at one moment I got so upset. I said, I'm going to eat with everybody and that's that. So I'm there and then my daughter's trying to eat my french fries and my wife got fed up. She said, you know what, my daughter's name is love. She said, love, don't eat that. You're going to get fat. She knew how to get under my skin. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know, she was two and a half at the time. She says, what's fat? She shows her a video about obesity and there's, you know, obese people in the video fat people and then it said, obesity kills it showed them in the hospital. Right. And my daughter's sore me going through sleep back in the intestines going to the hospital and then it's up. And she said, daddy, you're fat. I don't want you to die. Oh, wow. And you know, it was funny because, you know, you don't really think about it. I remember I was sitting with my mom. She said, you know, it's great. You have all these children. And you have these kids and it's awesome. She goes, you know how much, how much do you love your kids? And I said, man, I've never felt this kind of love before for anybody else. She goes, you know, I love you that much. And then it dawned on me. I said, mom, you really love me. You know? So, and then she said, but you know, are you even going to be alive to see them grow up, you know, like the way you're doing it? And I knew because my partner was also baloony. He was 295 pounds. Right. We would get custom suits because when you're that big, you have to get a custom course. You know, you don't get it. Yeah. Yeah. You know. And so, by the time this, the tailor shoot would get to my house, I would be fatter. Oh my god. And so it turned into us going, seeking out the best burger places, the biggest burgers, the juiciest and greasy as burgers, the craziest milkshake places. It was like a drug addiction almost the food. Yeah. It was like, you know, what we just threw our hands in the air. I said, you know, what we're going to just die fat and happy. Yeah. You know, I remember telling my wife, I'm like, you know what, if I die at 50, I'll be fat and happy. It's you just convince yourself. Right. You know, it's not, but it was that moment that I made a decision and I was going to stick to it. That was it. Now, I watch in your documentary, you show kind of the first day back at the gym. Yeah. Who, who, who, yeah. You're a smart guy. You're a business guy. So you're going to, you're going to get people and surround yourself with people who are going to help you achieve your goals. What was, what was the team that you put together to help you get into the best shape of your life? And first, you know, how heavy had you gotten? What was the heavy shape? I was, my heaviest hours, 315 pounds. But most of these people know how lose between 10 and 30 pounds. Every obese person has the trick up their sleeve. Some sort of crash diet, some sort of exercise. Everyone has their their ability to kind of lose weight. But then they end up gaining more than they lost and then just slowly climbs up. So I knew I couldn't go into my old bag of tricks because insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result as Einstein says. Yeah. So I wanted to seek out people that were like me that were obese and made a transformation. That's right. So I went to my local gym and I had met somebody that was obese and he had an amazing six pack and on top of that he was somewhat of an entrepreneur aspiring. So I knew I would bring something to the table business wise. I got you. I could mentor them business wise and he would teach me all the tricks on how to lose weight. And then I knew I was going to hit a wall. I joined CrossFit because I tried it once when I was really fat and I failed. I quit like after 10 minutes I walked out and I said I want to hit you know I want to hit the things that are the most difficult. Let me go back to what I failed that and conquer that. So I did a joint CrossFit too and I started doing all those crazy things that they have you do and it was working and then I started doing hit with the guy that was obese but then I knew I needed to get my nutrition and check. You know I knew that I was still doing bad at this point? No not at all not at all you know I eat whatever I'm told to eat whatever I programmed to eat. I was very fortunate to actually go on a bulk during the pandemic. So there's my first time going on a bulk because I it's impossible really to gain muscle while you're losing 120 of course. I did it but I didn't really gain the amount of muscle that I really wanted like in my legs and my back and my chest. So I was able to kind of go on my first real proper bulk this time which was kind of fun. So I found the nutritionist online that was from overseas and he was obese and he did his own transformation and I said this is a guy that can relate to me and he was young and I remember he had a tattoo on his arm. Has a tattoo that said million it right on his forearm and I said are you a million it says no man I want to be. I said tell you what if you help me do my transformation I'll help people become a million. So we you know we worked together a nice deal and now we worked together now in our business so it's kind of awesome. So I assembled a nice small team and then I had another trainer buddy of mine that I met through my barber who also wanted to be like a trainer. He wasn't really a trainer but he had an incredible physique and he used to play for the match but he hurt himself so he wasn't able to kind of play professionally and but he had an awesome physique he never competed before. And so I was I encouraged him to actually compete and he won his first competition while training him. So what was his name? His name is Ed. So he's an NPC here in New York City. So Ed Pania. So he's in the documentary. Yeah, he's a yeah. So now how long does this whole transformation take place? And how long does take you to lose all that weight? It took me nine months you know nine months to lose the weight and honestly and then I went into a surgery to get rid of the loose skin and then you're supposed to take a year to recover from that but I actually just took a month and then went back to the gym even when I had the blood bulbs collecting my blood I was working out and I was able to kind of heal myself enough to continue working out and then just you know going to a cutting phase and just get a nice thing. Why don't they want you to work out for a whole year after you get a skin reduction surgery? Well first of all you're you're you're cut up. You're wholly tire waste from you know the entire circumference it's they basically cut the loose skin like a long shirt. How much loose skin did you have a lot? I had quite a bit in the documentary I actually pull it and stretch it out. I'm sure it'll be good. I'm sure how much I have it was it was quite a bit and you know your chest your stomach so there was a lot to cut off but you know you're basically if you you can't even lift your arms up because you can pull out the stitch. Wait you're right when you hot will you horrified when you were losing all the weight and you saw all the skin was that was that discouraging for you like you never look at us. I was thinking to myself it's not gonna be me it's not gonna be me I'm not gonna be one of those guys and then when I got to 10% body fat I said oh man it has to be addressed you know when they took that skin off how much weight can do lose just from the skin being removed. I think it was like maybe four pounds three four five that's a lot. Yeah yeah yeah you know and you know what they tell you when you're recovering the doctor said no diet no no structure you gotta eat like you you were 350 pounds they said McDonald's Burger King passed the time. Why would they call you that? They tell you that because you're burning over 3,000 calories a day just in recovering they said basically you're running a marathon and it really was the case I actually had to eat like a maniac and I didn't put on any weight it was really that I think I think a lot of that eating helped me recover a lot quicker and and be able to kind of bounce back you know I think a lot of people would have went the opposite route and I'm sure you could have eaten clean and eat a lot of food too if you wanted to I mean it's kind of weird I'm telling you know it's like telling the heroin that it takes him heroin while you're recovering from this this well you know even in bodybuilding you know you you want to kind of make those meals short and dense and caloric you know so there's only so much the stomach at handle right so you can you can accomplish a lot with a nice cheeseburger hey look on the cheeseburger guy so you're talking to the choir yeah so you recover a year recovery doing a month you're back in the gym and at what now at what point do you say you say this up okay I'm happy with how I look I wasn't you know you have body dysmorphia I didn't know I looked incredible until two days before my competition you know it was funny because I would do a lot of jump rope a lot and I would have to do it in front of the mirror because if I didn't do it in front of the mirror I would run out of breath after five jumps psychologically I still sort of myself and saw myself so my trainer at the time said wait a minute it's standing in front of the mirror then all of a sudden I'm like okay I can do this you know so like and I'm jumping for 10 15 minutes so it's a big difference so you have all this so even up until like two days before the competition I was still shy to take off my shirt I really didn't think I would look good so we did a video shoot and a family photo shoot and the gym it meant had a real fancy gym took off my shirt I was shy about it and then he showed me the footage on his camera what he just did and I was doing some sort of battle rope thing I saw a muscle bulging out of everywhere I said man that's me I said oh my god I did it you know and that was like the first time that in two days later I stepped on stage you know that gave me the confidence to say I got this you ever see yourself regressing back to the heavy guy again no way you know I have such a good grip on nutrition I have such good goals and you know that's why I tied the business component to this transformation you know our company radical body transformation is I'm very lucky and bless I mess my met James you know by happenstance you know he had a show on Amazon Brunn called radical body transformation and it says submit your story maybe you'll be on the show I submitted my story and he loved it and he flew down the next day it said Anthony I've never seen a transformation like you're in my life I've been in the industry so long why don't we partner together and why don't you you know we do big things and I said man that's that's great idea I says I'm kind of retired I love to see my teeth in the physics and if I have a business it's going to keep me solid it's going to keep me on this path you know so now that's it you know it's business it's health it's success it's all encompass and I want to really be an example you know I set a lot of things in the documentary I get 500 to 1000 messages a day from fans wow I was speaking it's like the obesity whisper I was speaking to people that you know that's struggle that's strong you'd be surprised at moms that are reach out to me and you know they're like I'm tired of taking pictures hiding my fat with my children in front of me bending over like this all these tricks that they they they they understood what I was saying right what year did I mean um what year did you set L your business because you sold it before you started this transformation right I sold it before I started I sold it like a year before and that was making things work worse I was smoking cigars I was eating I'm just just hanging out you know and really do a board bench you're a board yeah yeah and it was just I wasn't doing anything in my wife's like what's your excuse now right right right right right right right right right you know so you know it was just I started looking at other I was going to get into this business where it was like involving food and and shapes and you know bad food and stuff that's how much I was really into food wow so you know I was going down a dark path yeah wasn't really it wasn't really right got you now your house is incredible in Brooklyn and people don't know anything about Brooklyn or New York City real estate there is ridiculous expansion this house is just phenomenal we'll put up some video in some pictures but um how did people contact you to actually use your your house in videos because they know 50 centid a video there yeah yeah yeah how does celebrities um you know what happened was I started an entertainment company because in my company a lot of people wanted to do a reality show you always have I was on the show called Million About a Listing so a lot of people you know I had all this entertainment stuff happening around me and then of course my daughter she's an actress you know she's a very busy actress she's four and a half now she's done like 50 acting jobs she actually has the file tattooed busy you say like she's 30 years old yeah so so we started an entertainment company and started investing in small films and large films and so it just comes to you out there you know in real estate you start working with celebrities showing them how homes selling them homes leasing them homes and so the word was out and you meet enough producers and and directors and showrunners they say I know a guy named Anthony he has a nice house you know so I had the roles Royce I had the nice house and I had all the things so next you know music videos movies short films everything I'm surprised you let people come in your house and film in there until you know it's that's kind of like your sanctuary sort of spirit yeah yeah but I love that you know I know that I was building a lot of context and connects for the future and and all those relationships were very grateful very solid um and we always had you know they always cleaned up they had insurance and all that kind of stuff so it was kind of cool where do you go when they're filming in your house a lot of times they would put me like in the scenes or behind the scenes or I would just watch it you know I just wanted to be around it I'm not saying would you you have to move out of the house for a week or so when they fall no no not at all not at all the shoots would you know we'd be here and they would they would work around whatever we had going on so we're pretty laid back people yeah yeah that that look it's it's fine you know it brings I'm sure your kids love the turret oh yeah they love it now when people like you know 50 cent come at your house and you're interacting with these guys do you do business with them or is it kind of just like yeah you know a lot of the celebrities you know they they want the right guidance you know they have a lot of people around them that are good at what they do but they don't really have a good investor business minded person it takes a real skill set to invest in real estate and these people don't want to manage it they don't want to run it so they want to invest in things that are hands-free and that can pay them dividends without headaches because you know there's really no type of investment that's going to beat somebody that's making millions of dollars on a record deal I don't care how good you are as an investor a lot of these investments are are slow and steady and stable investments but that that balloon and explode into big things five years to 10 years down the road and also pay your dividends along the way but you know you need to know how to pick and choose the right ones looking look at vitamin water wouldn't fit for 50 cent right yeah you know you need a fortune now your home gym okay well I asked you before the show I said you know what did you do during this whole you know the quarantine because new York City had all their gyms closed for months and months and you tell me you took out the entertainment center in your basement with the your pool table lots of and you've replaced it with a gym was that yeah that had to be the finals like straw you you know you you throw out the old life and you're bringing the new life I mean I have to imagine right it was it was it was it was first of all it was so difficult to get gym equipment during the pandemic yeah dumbbells good luck you know it's like that was like you know it was like you found dumbbell for a thousand bucks at that time I know what did you where did you buy what equipment did you put in there so I bought a Smith machine you know I bought a dumbbell set from five to 150 pound dumbbells I bought you know dip a dip bar a chip machine leg extension hacksquat preacher curl in the right client bench the meat and potato stuff you know I was able to deadlift and do all that kind of stuff and I was very lucky because it's funny my partner Carlos was in New Jersey and he passed by one of these fitness equipment centers and it said close nobody coming in so he looked through the window and he saw somebody knocked on the window and he said because I was struggling to find this equipment right knocked on the window the guy comes he says we're not we're close we're not taking anything we're also booked like you you know we we don't have anything until like months because of the pandemic and he said well you know my partner Anthony Lali this is Anthony Lali I used to work to that man five years ago oh my god and he changed my life he told me how to sell it I got this God this gig here I managed all these chain stores he said for Anthony Lali I'm gonna get him the equipment wow you're like a crazy coincidence where they actually gave us like the showroom equipment and delivered it and all that kind of stuff so I was lucky because otherwise I had to wait three four months that you know that's called the vine intervention but you think yeah yeah yeah it's funny because I was on the phone with him my partner Carlos he was driving in Jersey on the highway and I was like I have no luck there's so many ways and he turned he said wait a minute there's like a fitness center right here I'm gonna see what's going on oh my god it's just like crazy and you just happened to train that guy that's that's incredible yeah that's an incredible story so now all right look you're a guy that likes a lot of highs I mean you that's what makes you excited about life you've achieved your physique okay you've got the six pack you know you got obviously all the money you could ever want in life at this point I mean obviously you're a young guy you're going to still invest the business what what what floats you're about now what's the next the next move for you that's going to keep you just as excited as you were before um this business venture I'm doing with James and Carlos with radical body transformation we're really taking a fresh perspective to the fitness industry because I'm really an outsider I'm new to this so you know I'm kind of working with the general population you know I'm bringing the general public who thought that this is really a close community and it's really open you'd be surprised how many people in body building and in fitness embrace and welcome new people and your faces as long as you're willing to put in the work and as long as you understand that you have to have nutrition I get so many gym owners and trainers and nutritionists they say I make my clients watch your documentary because you're teaching the basic foundations you need a coach you need a nutritionist and you need a training you have to have those things so and then also people that do shows they write to me all the time they're like man you know now I've made my family watch this because they thought I was crazy about doing shows and now they're all embracing me and they understand what it's like to do a bodybuilding show behind the scenes and normal people do it and it's can be very popular it's not just for the people that just want these crazy big bodies it's for everybody yeah absolutely and and I encourage people that the documentary is from Fat Lally to Six Packs Lally and you can know the it's going to be on Amazon it's on Amazon Prime I watch it on Amazon Prime it's Amazon Prime it's ranking as the number one fitness documentary it's ranking as the number one documentary to watch on Amazon so it was it was it was it was it was a great watch and I'm not even done watching it I got to watch the end of it but it was it was it was real and I think people could relate to it because you you were a guy who was so successful in life and in making money but you were like a dummy when he came to how to take care of your body and that's why I think people can relate to it because here you are is the sky who's like controlling all these people and and has all this money and power and yet you're helpless to help yourself and it's and it's humbling and I think that's where the the endearing aspect of the documentary comes from yeah you know I talk about it at the end of the documentary you know obesity can can get anyone the richest or the poorest doesn't matter remember the nine times that I failed I still had money I just didn't put the work into it you know and honestly I didn't spend an incredible amount of money I hired my local Jim like you don't have to be a millionaire to join crossfit or join a jam or this free information online too you know you may want to show that every day and you can get the motivation and the tool set it's whether you want to do it inside or not exactly and you know even nutritionists and coaches and stuff like that you don't break the bank with those now everybody has stepped on stage with was not a millionaire and I don't have coaches and nutritionists so you know if you really want to do it you can do it and that's this we kind of created the system now that's like for the everyday joe through our company just like to eliminate the excuse you just if you want to change your life you can do it I get more pleasure to tell you the truth out of helping guys like yourself and women also in the same boat I love the transformation aspect of it because you know if these people are so grateful to you and they're such great referers to other people because they're not expecting to win the Mr. Olympia they just want to look good and look better and be healthy and go to the doctor and have the doctor say wow your health markers are good you look great you did a great job that that to me gives me more pleasure okay and more satisfaction than helping some guy win the Mr. Olympia competition although that's exciting too obviously but but I get more satisfaction at helping people make big transformations well you think about it you take a regular person that's competing in body building and they're on stage they're lucky if their girlfriend or their husband shows up right you take a transformation person the aunt the mom you know the boss from work everyone's there cheering them on supporting them right so there's a huge audience for transformation now a lot of the federations are now incorporating transformation into their body building because it's a really feel good stuff yeah now it might be a good it might be good to have a division of transformations division yeah it really is I mean honestly that's the division I competed with in the WBFF okay and there's I had five other transformation divisions to compete in except COVID came but I was really looking to keep in some of them or Europe some of them are in California so there is it's really growing by popular demand right when you would watch that show the biggest loser on TV did you ever have an an inkling to do that show you know first of all they quarantine you for a couple weeks and you know that just shows you how difficult it is you know people say you know you need you know he was a millionaire these people first of all not all them had money and they they're quarantined they have a coach nutritionist a chef a trainer you can't go anywhere there's no snacks and they still fail yeah it's amazing right yeah you know I mean that's how hard it is without you know the right guidance and there and so you know apparently it's just within the person to really want to write well Anthony I want to thank you so much for coming on the show and sharing your story with our audience and I think it's very inspirational I think you're you know you've done it all now so you kind of can see lies from every different perspective and I think that that makes you a much more realistic you know role model for a lot of people and you know I appreciate you taking time and coming on the show I know you know you're an avid watcher of of our muscle and I appreciate the support absolutely I appreciate all the content you play yeah I love to do something with you the future maybe from day one you know and the big fan of yours since day one and and I'm an even bigger fan now maybe maybe we could do some kind of like a joint venture where we do like a sponsored transformation on our muscle using your company or something like that and and yeah and given out some prizes to some of our viewers and something that who maybe want to do a trip I used to do a transformation challenge years ago when I was with Muscle Development MHP was the sponsor but we would take like five or six guys and I would coach him for free using my system and we were using MHP products because they were the sponsor at the time and we actually had some amazing transformations and I'm still friends with a lot of these people that that we have been in life changing I love to and amazing okay that's all about that all right guys that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with on day polo and ball for Anthony Lali we'll see you next time

Welcome back to our ax muscle update. Today we have a very special edition because this is a contest season. We have the North American championships coming up this weekend. It's one of the biggest events on the calendar year. It's always been one of the most exciting ones because it's not only do we have open men, masters. We have a lot of pro cards up for grabs and this has been a show notoriously. It's been a four-day show. If you can believe it, I think it's the longest show in all of NPC history in terms of how long it goes. The only promoter that I know that could probably pull something like that off would be a good friend Gary. He's here to join us tonight. Gary, welcome to the show. Hey Dave. Good to see you. Oh my god. Gary, I had to get you on because you know what? I just had Tony Darnion last week and we were talking about some of the challenges of promoting a show in 2020. And you know, I set to myself, Gary has got to be bang in his head against the wall and losing his mind because I know how difficult it is for you guys to promote a show just a regular show. You hold the biggest show in the history of bodybuilding that we've done. Four days you hold it over. It's normally at the Sharon Station Square right in the Pittsburgh there. It's a beautiful venue. It's so easy to do there, but you know, you spread it out. The competitors love it. It's a great time. And you have had the rug pulled out some of you on this 2020. I don't know how you pulled this off. Tell me what it took to make the North American championships work just coming when you're getting God willing it happens, obviously. Yeah, that's well, well, put especially with what happened yesterday. But you know, I got to tie everything's real very relative. And then one could have predicted this stuff. And there's a whole lot of you guys in a worse position in me. They had the cancel so shows. They couldn't put them back on the July show. We had the rescheduled for October. And this one here was coming up. And I'll be honest, I, our, our governor set the numbers at 25 people inside. About five weeks ago, I'm like, kid, you've, they've. Well, what happened? Because originally, I mean, you changed the venue originally. Well, was it there's a problem with the Sharon Station? They don't want you to hold it. They're going through a purchase. So they weren't going to open. And there was questions about when they would open. I was to mention, you know, how it is, they, I'm. I heard a guy in the radio that a day describing what exactly it takes to open a business. I think these circumstances. Costsly in and of itself, plus they have to have enough business on the books to make sense. And they've been closed all year or so. Oh, I didn't even know that. We, you know, we kind of, they've been great to work with. And they said, look, we're not going to be open in time for July. And then it's the intern for September. And they're totally moved over to the window, which is a nice facility. You had to nail on the head when you said it's so easy over there. Oh, I love the new facility. You know, how it is, first time for any things is a trip. So, um, it's pen and education for sure. So what is the wind them do? They call you up and say, but sorry, you can't have it here either. No, what happened was the governor set the numbers inside at 25. Okay, so how many people can be in there at a time, which is basically your staff basically. Yeah, yeah, he said it in 25 instead of 250. And, um, at that point, I remember waking up for a whole gym. I said, I don't put just thing outside somehow. Right. So you never thought I'm going to cancel you said I'm going to make this happen. No, no, no, there are the poor people being hit right. He says, I know. I'm helping a lot of people get right. I know, believe me, they're dying. Yeah, and I knew that they're, you know, there's a lot of guys doing the same thing. I'm doing it. They're finding a way around. Helps Steve move down to a Tampa, I think. You're a little bit too much. And that Tim's moving the Chicago contest. So everybody's tapped in to the round this. Yeah. So he said, how you going to do this, I said, I have no idea. So I went in search of first a parking lot. I wanted to get something close to the window. Right. And start talking to my stage guys about a chance. And how do you read the parking lot, though, Gary? Like, what are you talking to? We're in the parking lot. That's what I like to know. Dave, like yourself, you know, up for you live. You know everybody. So I put the word out to everybody. So listen, I need a flat parking lot right now. And sure enough, the valet guy goes right across the street. We notice guy and turned out I wasn't thinking, but a good friend of ours has a parking lot there. And one block away four minute walk from the window. So then we started the development of the the 10th situation, which was it has been an education also. I can imagine. So it's been a trip. And then yesterday, how big of a hole? How big of a tent do you need to the hole this thing? I went with 100 by 70. I think 10. Nearly nearly as big as the share it's involved. They air condition. I think he or is it not air condition? No, we have the sides up to create ventilation. Right. And then we have lots of industrial fans. They're actually, I was amazed. I'll quiet there. Right. And we recreated the ballroom in the tents. Okay. And you know, athletes don't do well with change. Now that's like what you said about the share it's an I was there since 93. And they don't do well with that. So when we mentioned there would be a tense. We've gone through every question about. Well, the athlete, bikini grows on my buddy trains. So athletes and they said, I'm going to play a cow under that tent light. Right. And they'll say, what exactly lights do you think he's going to use? He always bring the ones from the ballroom. And I can't, someone actually asked if I would consider having a cover over the stage. Oh, it's good. Just in case it rains. Yeah. Yeah. I got that coverage. So yeah. Yeah. What did they think they knew we're going to have it to open air? Well, I, I, I had, she texted me and I just had to call. And I sent you a, do I actually think? Yeah. My expirators have been up there with the umbrella. I mean, what were you thinking? Yeah. No, no, no. I didn't think so. I go, when you ask me, I make you expect it. Right. And we have the advice. We have a system to get people from the wind to the tents. Mm-hmm. If, in case it rains. So we've got to read every detail. Now, what, now, what, um, how many people can you keep in this tent? Is there any, like, restrictions on that? Well, there is, as of yesterday, thank you Dave. Yeah. I think that that, well, add a little bit more challenge to it. Before yesterday, we were at a point where we could do 250. Okay. And, and an outdoor facility. And then, sure, you know, people have been asking me all along. Is this contest actually going to run after, you know, after they've all been canceled? And I said, uh, well, it is until some political guy, right. It's nice, not. And, um, sure enough yesterday at noon, they had their Friday meeting with the state capital. And they decided that 100 people was all they'd give us outside. So, um, that changed it because once you get two classes of athletes, ex-fordators, judges, scores, photographers, you eat up 100. So that took away an audience and vendors. I had to contact every vendor and say, hey, I'm sorry that we can't accommodate you. I wish I could have you here. But, uh, so it's going to be athletes, um, much like today. And we were in three ports today. Right. And Superman had the same situation. So it was Superman, what? Yeah. Judges and athletes. Wow. You know, it's funny, Gary, because people, here's where we're looking at the picture of the tent. You have on your Instagram. So we know what the funny, I was with the owner of the company last week. Laying out where to put this tent. Yeah. And I go, I go, I go, so what the hell's this thing look like anyway? He's, he popped out of a picture. So I told him I had no idea. Oh, that's funny. Well, there's your picture there for people, man. I don't know. I envision the circus tent. Yeah. That's what it might have been funny here for was a certain effect. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny. I see people commenting on like your posts and when you're updating people and telling them, like, hey, you know, sorry guys, you know, there's no, there's no audience. You can't, there's no audience people allowed. And there's no backstage passes and all this stuff because we have a limited amount of people. And people are writing responses. As if you don't want to sell tickets to the show. I'm thinking, don't you think Gary wants to sell a million tickets and make a ton of money and sell backstage passes and make money? He's not doing this because he's trying to like victimize you guys. He's trying to make the show happen. That's when I really felt, felt my heart went out to you. I'm going to be thinking, I can't believe these people are so stupid. I get a tell you though. I don't blame them. There's been a tough year. And Jim and Tyler from day one have been pushing everyone to do their best to run their show because the athletes deserve it, frankly. And I mean, there's a bunch of guys out there that have been, they walk in the door to their show knowing, well, they're not going to make a dime. So at least I've got a number of athletes. So what we're losing on vendors and seating doesn't hurt as much as it would have otherwise. Sure. Sure. What's the difference in price between reflecting a venue and a tenth of the parking? Well, I can't define that exactly what the hell one of these can't see. What is the, because you need a for four days to it. Now you need to do it for one day. Yeah. Well, I don't know how that works relatively the days because I think I think. I think these companies aren't doing that much business anyway because right now it's speaking to the owner. He wrote a thousand orders this year and canceled 900. Oh, right. Wettings went south parties went south. Yeah. So, but you start, yeah, those, these tents. They cost so few bucks. There's no question. I know, but I believe me. I can imagine. Yeah, and then, but, you know, it's going to be good to go and I feel, I felt terrible for the family. So it can't come. Right. Working hard now on trying to figure out live streaming. I got some issues with Wi-Fi over there. But, yeah, I was going to ask you that outside of public camping to great. It's a little difficult. But folks who never wait more than I do. I mean, I was trying to figure that out. So I'm hopeful about that. But, there would be nice, I guess, if it was live stream. So at least people like can watch it. I mean, that would be a great, I mean, you don't have to do that. I mean, as a promoter, I mean, that would just be you saying, hey, I want to show you guys that, you know, I'm trying my best year. I love to have them because a lot of the athletes rely on family and coaches. Sure. They come in. So I want to find a way that we can do live streaming so they can at least watch it and support it in some fashion. You know, the other, and the other some logistics stuff to tell you the truth. If there's been a challenge to spend the logistics of getting people in the tent at the right time. Right. But control the flow because some people once they finish. We're not going to have your typical pre judging at eight and finals at six. You're going to trade for it, right? Pardon me. You're going straight through pre judging finals boom boom, right? Well, two classes at a time like class A will do pre judging. Then class B will do pre judging. Then A does finals. Got it. And they're going towards B does the same and they're gone. So my goal is that anyone's in that tent for an hour and they don't come back. So. Alright, well, that's good. So you're, I mean, it's going to be a long day, but you're done. Yeah, you don't have to hang around. Yeah. There are already requesting it for future events, whether we have a tent or anything. Just a much idea. Yeah. Yeah. The higher up so make that decision. It's a long day. I think people because it's a long day, but you know, the way you spread it out over four days, however, it's really not as bad as it used to be. I mean, I've been there with you when we did it in two days. I mean, and it was like, I mean, two in the morning we were out of there. You know, it was like, it was like, jam and ice sitting in the press pit. Like, and that was it. There was no one around. It was everyone couldn't, they couldn't handle them anymore. It was just so late. And you're doing the men's body building open or whatever. Master's like 40 and over overall. And there's like, there's like 20 people in the place, but it was like, crazy excitement because everyone's, you know, once a pro car, you know. Yeah. And the question. Well, I look at, glad you guys said, I'm making it happen because, you know, it's important. I mean, because think about the, you know, the loss of pro car ability that we have this year, I mean, there's this going to be less pros, you know, this year because of the fact that we can't hold these shows. No question. And and and truthfully, the fact that people've been getting ready and somehow. I mean, I'm, you guys, clients, how have they continued to get ready to miracle all this time? It's miracle, because they just keep dieting. I feel bad for them. I've been giving them like breaks and then we were like, I, and I, and I've been telling everyone. And this is not because I'm standing here. And like there's no doubt in my mind that Gary will have this North America. There's no way it's getting canceled. And like, yeah, but all the other shows, and I trust me. Gary will have this happen. Well, if anyone could do it. We had the benefit of the weather and this tent thing to get outside. But yeah, the curious thing to me has been how the hell you have your clients. Keep going and not for nothing. They're mental fortitude to make it happen when things keep going south. I mean, it's got to be done. I think a lot, I, I talked to someone one the other day actually. Who talks to a lot of athletes. And a lot of them are, are heading for these events now because they're afraid of a second wave. Sure. So it's on folks mind, there are anxious to compete. Tyler, Tyler had it right. I called it wrong. I thought we have a very small, manageable event here. And how many you got? Probably 1400. You can see you got more. You got more people than you normally do. It's crazy. I hope because you're picking up the slack from the masters' nationals that didn't happen. One other question and from all of them, you know, the USA and everybody. And, but I think this is going to continue through the fall. Yeah. People, I've seen it today. It's amazing how much people miss this. Gary, you got to remember also, you know, these these people, not only of them, and dieting, a lot of them had no gyms to train at. Look at, look at Steve up in New York, his gym just opened. I mean, it hadn't been open for months. I'll tell you truth, we're so fortunate that we had access to a gym at home. But I don't know how those people accomplished it, even on a mentally, because of how much it means to us to work out with that blood flow. So they have to respect that. Yeah, of course. I mean, yeah, I know. This is a bit of a survey. These folks are ready. They don't touch a good job. No, I really, I know you have a great crew over there too. And like you said, a lot, thank God, you know everyone in Pittsburgh, you and Jim. I think Jim, she just run for government. Then we were moving to had a problem. Yeah, if you were the governor. For least mayor of Pittsburgh. Yeah, absolutely. He would have been like, Gary, we grant you a, the auditorium on that. No, what, are you worried about the whole COVID thing? I mean, what do you guys have in place in terms of in a show of that magnitude to live in exposure? I mean, there's COVID rules, but you know, Jim was pushing us to exceed those. So that every where he'd go in the hotel for check-ins, everything, temperatures, masks. We got people controlling the number of people in check-ins. Social distancing at his best. Just at every turn. And even then come over towards the, come over to the tent. Temperatures again. Right. Matsx in place because someone, but I've seen it these advances that there's some haters out there. Obviously. Of course. And I've already told my guys that go to expect someone to come and try to show us now. Okay. It's going to happen. However, I welcome it because we're going to have our numbers in place and the correct things. And I've got somebody there with a counter. And I'll say, how, help yourself take a good look. We have it covered. So, I mean, even with permits. You get a tent. You get a tent permit, Dave. Right. And with generators to run the electricity. Any permit. I forgot about that. That's right. Electricity. You can go in the macro. What kind of generators do you have to buy to rent to that? Really big ones. Freak. What do they run off gasoline? What if they run out of gasoline? Has that work? Well, the lighting company I use has been doing this for 35 years. So, when I call a Jennifer up and I say, hey, here's what my need. She goes, how we do these things on the middle of a field sometime. Oh, wow. And the generators actually roll to the quiet. So, yeah, if I can, if I keep my fingers crossed about the weather, that would be a black and control when that's not my look, Jim Mania can't control. Hey, you. I look, I, I, I pray for you, but there's no, there's no rain. And, well, what was your, what's your turn out like for the, the pro masters of it you're doing? Well, we got 110 right now. I don't know. And I've had a hope that people continue to eventually, at some point, we had to shut down the online registration to collect our paperwork. Right. Keep the constantly. Hey, can I come in? I said, yeah, sure. We have them collected by their community, I have our pre-fueled math trying to kind of care of our athletes and so can they do things like that. We have to get those are new exercises for the community. I've worked at a program for this university. Wow, that's smart. Yeah, because I can imagine. I mean, look, let's face it. It's costing you an enormous amount of money put the event on, but you're also making an enormous amount of money because there's so many entries. So if you have to refund that would be insane. That's, this way, they don't have any money out of their pocket. And that way, if they can't come to the event, no much, no fuss, you know, it's talk good to go and that they kept saying, well, change is, change is partial folks. That's the biggest thing in routine. And they would, they say, well, if I register and don't pay to I get there, what happens if I don't come? Do I still have to pay? That's the best one. I'm sending people to your house. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, what do you get is there right? I get a collection money. So I think the funny thing is with bodybuilders, they all show up. That's the one of the, you know, I talked to Tony, Dario and Tony actually was, you know, very blunt with me and said, you know, I almost, I almost went out of this, I just went bankrupt, you know, because of this, this, this season. I mean, if this, if this North American didn't go off, and would that have been a big financial hit for you? Well, Dave, luckily my passion other than this is part. Right. So if I didn't have made already, I've already started to sell them off. You got to do it. Really? Wow. Because I have worked all year and it doesn't grow in trees. Now I know it's people don't realize that it's, everyone's been hit hard. How many cars did you have? I didn't know you collected cars. Well, yeah, you know, it's a sickness for probably. Yeah, I believe me. I know I got a bunch of collections myself. Yeah, the duty of it is that in times like this, you can sell them. Yeah. There'll always be more on eBay later. Right. Right. What kind of cars do you collect? Oh, geez. I'm a Cadillac freak. So I go over nice. So 64. Yeah. Yeah. I love those long loaves, you know, and did you read like redo them and everything like that? Well, I have one that got redone. The other one I bought it on eBay in perfect shape. Oh, wow. They shipped it on home run. But really cool. Yeah. So that's kind of been a good thing for me. I feel bad for a lot of guys who don't have something like that to do that. Right. Right. But to shave you had to even do that though. I mean, that I mean, that's what the hell wants to do that. You're at the point in your life when you're doing well, you know, you're promoting shows every year. It pays the bills and you're offered to worry about anything. I mean, it's pretty, it's pretty much a guaranteed thing except when there's a pandemic that hits the world. Who the hell expected that right? None of us did and put some people in some pretty jammed-up situations. Yeah. You know, not to mention what it does to folks mentally. I mean, when got the other day was talking about on the radio, the man forgets a pandemic here. You've got to take a look at the side effects. You start to take away people's jobs and they can't pay their rent. It's a mess. So I choose to be worth fortunate. Yeah. I mean, you went through personally tragedy in your life. I don't know if you want to talk about that. But I mean, that had to be, this is a hard year. I don't know. I choose to be on mine because maybe it'll wick somebody up. You want to tell us what happened? Yeah. My ex was involved as a drug addict for about 10 years. I ten year rollercoaster ride. And then her daughter also, my step daughter, gotten involved. And so we lost my ex last July, Dorian Masters Nationals. Was this the picture of him? And it sure is. So it was the first day of the Masters Nationals. I got a call that my daughter found her mother. But I've fortunately, you know, they were using together. Wow. The body system. I don't know if you're familiar with that. No. Yeah. People used together. And that way if one has a situation, you're the one can save them with that Narcan. And unfortunately, her mom passed away last year. And then we lost Katie two months ago. And then it's a hell of a thing. But it's discouraging there. It's not going away, Dave. And like you and I were texting earlier. The challenge at this point is protecting your kids and my grandson. Right. And so that that day's going to come when someone's going to offer them something. And they've got to say no. The challenge is to drive that home that they will save no. Because man, man, you know, when I was a kid. I remember that on the streets where I lived, there was heroin. However, it's not the heroin in what exists these days. Yeah. And I've lost a few friends. You know, too, it is well. And it's not it. People think of the heroin as a drug of like, you know, like, Darrelick's or like, you know, low lives. It's a drug. It's hitting everyone, including the upper class, you know. Well, it's cheap. And it's extremely, a dick thing now. But you know, losing the two of them has put it everything and perspective. Because we talked earlier about the high stress of this event. I got to tell you truth. This is stressful. Right. I started to find folks passing away on you. And in my grandson's upset by these only six years old. Right. That's what the real anger comes from. But so things being relative. This is pretty easy stuff. Worried about a tent was that grandson is was that his mother to die? No, no, he's mom was good to go and clean. Okay. She's the light of our life and she's fantastic. But unfortunately her. Her sit. It was her sister. Her sister. So it's really tough on her because she lost her mom and sister. Right. And she's like, it's tough on my grandson. Said lot for a six year old to take in. How old are your kids today? My daughter just turned one today. Amazingly. And I've been older than dad. But I have a five, a four year old. And my daughter's, the daughter's two years. So, you know, I think about these things. I see this happening. I'm like, oh my gosh. Right now I have complete control of my kids. Because they're too young. But once they start going out and seeing other people. And then you don't know where they are. They're doing. Yeah. No. And that's how. You know, it's almost like the journey has to start soon. On. How to educate them on that. And it's only going to get worse. I know one thing is not going away. No. No. Drugs are out there. And we're not keeping people away. And it might be worse now because he said, There's a lot of depression because people can't do anything. Yeah. But it's awful when you, you know, people are such. They need routine. And suddenly they lose their job. Yeah. Or they can't go to the gym. And they can't pay bills. And the next thing. You know, depression just ramps. And they turn to something else. So it certainly puts everything in the perspective for all of us. But even all these people that we're not able to train and exercise. And it's really cool. I mean, that's the foundation for you and I for ourself and well being is working out. So look at what happened to Luke Sandow. I mean, I mean, that's that right there. That's that's the post a child for what's going on here. I mean, I truly believe he'd be with us. Still if there wasn't a whole COVID quarantine. Yeah. And you know, I guess the main thing of taught me was you never know what's going on in somebody's life. Yep. You never know it's a hell with things. He was such a sweet guy. No, I know. Did I never anyone say a bad word about him? No, he was a season to be around. We used to gravitate to him. And all the shows. He was a funny guy. That's why I can. I was like, yeah. So Gary, just to change gears now. I mean, which is a whole COVID thing. I mean, you obviously are plugged in with your man. We're going to be right there in Pittsburgh. What are we looking at if you Olympia you think at this point? I mean, are we going to see enough qualifiers before that? Are they going to give out special invites? You think what do you think is going to happen for the Olympia in terms of the quality of competitors on stage? Yeah. But I don't, I certainly don't know anything. Anyone else doesn't know. But knowing Jake would. Yeah. I see him as a guy who's committed to run that thing. No matter what. That's the image I see that's there. He got a real passion for this thing. And if there was ever anyone who should be the owner of that. He's shit. You got to have a fan who actually has money and is the owner of something. That's like Joe Weeder. It's like, you know the thing is going off. Yeah. You really do. And he is. He's just watch what he's done. And he keeps finding ways. And he's the mainer appears to be one that. You got to let it roll off you and we'll move on and find another way. Right. So I personally think it's going to happen. No matter what, even if that means no crowd. Right. I think I think I'm I wanted to impress you. He would he would do that just from my rare conversations with him. The kind of guy he is. Yeah. And yeah. And I think so. And as a promoter Gary, you know what kind of a financial hit that would be to run the Olympia without sponsors and without without a crowd because we get they got to give some serious prize money away and there's no application fees, you know, to pay the bills. Yeah. No question. So I don't know what you think. Let's talk for a minute about the women's body going. Yeah. And and relative to Jake wood because in my mind. When he bought that thing. I started to put the word out in my zone at minute landing zone that female athletes should take a good hard look at women's bodybuilding. That's a possibility. As a possibility because. And we talked to some girls today as an example here at the in tree port. We're hanging out in Andy Bartoliget Bartoliget for grab something. And I was so glad the one girl came over because. She's dead women's physique. But in my mind, she should be doing bodybuilding. Right. She got some a lot of muscle and sure enough we suggested it. She was horrified. I was you people are horrified because we because you know what happened. They created a stigma on bodybuilding as though it's like something that you shouldn't do. It's dirty or something like that, you know. Well, they get the impression that they have to be so big. And and that's I'm be honest with you. I had a conversation. I was in Arizona for two weeks in March. And I've worked with them and I that's when I got to get together with Jake. Right. And we got talking about about the sports and. You know, no one wants people people want marketable women's bodybuilding. Right. And the job blonde. Can you picture? Jo Blondon. She did. She could definitely cross over. Well, she did. As a matter of fact, year or two ago, we were on Toronto. And I remember type Tyler and I were getting ready for this. Contest and we were talking about what they had to do with women's body building and women's physique and how we judge it. What direction to go in. And Tyler had said what we need to go with a sleeper looking women's physique. So Jill had chosen women's physique that day and she was too big. She was too dense. She did not do well. Maybe six, seven. Right. There's a herna trainer came over afterwards. She was what do you think I need to do? I got go to bodybuilding. Her trainer's like, what did I tell you? She goes, oh my god, no, I go listen to me. You don't have to be super duper big. I said you have no super duper big girls anymore. Okay, you have a great look. She was attractive. Be tapered. And I think six weeks later she went to Chicago in one. Oh, that's right. You're on. But just there was a girl today. J. The Beverly. I believe her name is from Columbus. And she stopped over. And she's what do you think? I said, Chief, I think you should consider it because not only is it. There's a correct look and I think Tyler's got that nail down. So they're all we have to do is educate our judges. But I think because of Jake, women's bodybuilding is going to get a lot of great exposure. And I'm sure he's going to, I know Jake, you know he's going to put up a lot of prize money for that. For sure. And so what I've done in my zone in the NPC is I put it out there. If you do women's physique, you get a free entry to women's bodybuilding. That's right. So I'm going to tell them, look, crossover. Right. You're going to find out that there's no horrible stigma. There's a great look. Someone like Jill or Teresa Ivansica or these girls that get great looks. Why not? Well, my whole thing is why don't they just combine it already? Why don't they just call women's physique and just make the title, Miss Olympia? Wouldn't that solve all the problems? Well, I guess ideally there should be two distinct body types for that. But it there isn't right now. I mean, unless you guys start as judges start really, you know, hammering at home, you know? Well, before and I'm going to tell you, I'm dragging this kid all the time. The fourth dollar came along. And it worked and really hard on criteria. Right. I remember we're one of the big shows that might have been USA. I looked up and I said, down the table, I said, you know, any of the things we don't support women's body voting. They're in the art right there. The book is the Z-girls. They're giant. There you are. But, um, and they're ripped too. We just have to draw a line to the sand and keep working with our judges to do the right thing. And, um, and they can both be good divisions. But, but do you think they'd even want? And do you think there's enough people that you need to division to this point? Why would my not just make it one division? Well, I have, you know, um, at some point as conversation should probably stop because. Yeah, I'm just, I'm just, I throw it at them because it's just to me, you know, I've been in this sport a long time together. I've been watched it. I've helped competitors. And I see them. They have merged. And there's nothing wrong with that because we all loved women's body building. They've just got out of control. And so you guys rebooted it. It got back in control. It's where it should be now. And really, that's where women's body building should be now. There's no big girls left. There's no giant girls that even put into women's body. They can cross over and, and, and I don't think anyone would complain either way, you know? No, you're yes, I think. You know, the, you know, I'm sure you remember why week, why we created women's physique. 100%. We need to be done. It's the fact that, uh, so many figure girls would come to us and say, I want to do figure and we say both. They're, no, you're too big. You got to go to body building. Right. So the idea was to create a division, slightly burden of a figure. Right. That being women's physique. However, um, you know, we kind of took it to another level by taking their heels, away, right, and making them do poses. Yeah. And so many of the girls did not like that. So obviously the body part was gravitated to it. So right. Right. And, yeah. And, but then the figure girls got bigger. And you got to, you let the figure girls get bigger, which is fine. I like it. I like the look. But so now you got the girls that, that one of where he else that can still be sizable and have good conditioning and figure. And then you, you got women's physique, which is really women's body building. And that's why I said, just put them together. Because I think the miscellaneous title is really awesome. And if I'm a woman and I pose, I want to be called miscellaneous. I mean, I would think she need grant would want to be called miscellaneous. She's, she's like, you know, she's like the next one tomorrow. She's like, she's from some other planet. Right. I mean, well, I've had put her off against Iris Kyle and do you live here. I mean, that's what I want to see. Yeah. Forget about. Yeah. Well, yeah, you know, you got this, the show coming up this weekend. It's going to be Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Yeah. You got it all spaced out. If you go, people go to GaryUt.com. You can check out all the, when the classes are going to be run to get me run together, pre-judging Finals, you're out of there. In the tent, there's going to be no people who can come visit, but you're working on that livestream. Is that what it was? And the place to really go is, uh, NPC North American.com. Okay. Because we put all the updates on their map. I thought you were like, I thought you were like a genius. I thought you were doing the, he's, he's the tech whiz. Oh, really? I didn't even know your brother was involved with this. Oh, forget about it. I'm like, can you? I told you. I could not do any of this for like a while. So he does your whole website. Oh, I was wondering. I thought you were like a genius. I thought you were doing this. He always was the brands of family. I'm like, I'm not. He would, he would tell you that, but, you know, I have some idea, and he pops a reason or a way to do it and accomplish it. So it's such a big help. But, uh, so we use that to update everything, relentlessly as NPC North American.com. So if we have something that's coming, people should tech that because the, the key for us this weekend or this coming week is, uh, getting them in the tents in a certain flow. Because I can't have too many people in that tent. Right. And then I got a shuffle amount. So we're going to protect the large system. How do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you text all these people? How does that work? It's a two full text alert and it's weird. Because some phones don't do well with text alert. Right. So we're going to get them there. We, we figured out a real protocol to make this happen. We need to put all the numbers in and it just, it spits him out at one time. I mean, I don't even know how that works. Well, they sign up for it. I'm sure they could have more than American.com. NPC, North American.com. It shows them how to sign up for it. Oh, okay. So you have to do that. You have to do that pretty much. We're pushing them to do it. However, I understand their apprehension. So that's going to be the trick this week. But I think just after we've got that nailed down. I get, I have the benefit. No lie of having the best team in the world. These guys are good guys there. I would never get to a doctor's appointment anymore. If I didn't have that, I'd text alert system. That's great. No, you can't remember anything. I get too much going on. You're laughing because you probably did the same thing. You probably missed every doctor's appointment. You know, Jim and I had the same doctor. So my text alert system is Jim Madden because, you know, not only is he watching this, I'll see you watching mine. He goes, hey, I got a night in my phone. You got a point in the with Robert. I go, nah, I got a call on me. I'm not. Next thing in the front of the front is Robert. Hey, I guess you got a come in and see me. I go, yeah, he goes. I think he's tracking more New York. That's great. Gary, man, I made that a hard year, man. But God bless you. You know, you're making this happen. It's not only for your own benefit, obviously. But the athlete really, I talk to these people. I'm in the trenches with these guys. They're so happy that you're having this show. I can't do that. I'm so happy they're coming. And the other thing is this, I got to tell you. The other folks, I don't blame them for being upset. I mean, I get it. There's been a lot going on. And now this thing went no crowd. And so we're struggling to get this last stream together for them. But, yeah, I really don't, I hope any, any, any, it will go towards people there upset. So, we'll do the best we can, especially. I'll hold the old will against them for you because, you know, what, you should be kissing your butt that you have in this show because without the show, there would be, there would be 600 less pro parts. That's what that thing, because the one person in the country is you don't want to have the old will. It's from painful rumbles. That's right. That's right. But very angry as I'm getting older. I'm getting like a, to be a grumpy old man. All right. You're having this show and good luck this weekend. Yeah, my best year away from hope the kids are great. Thank you so much. And guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of RX Muscle News Update. I'm Dave Palombo for Gary. We'll see you next time.

Day of the level here with an RX Muscle Supplement and Science Education as I like to call it. A lot of people out there have contacted me recently, you know, we see a lot of people going down with heart attacks and blockages of the coronary arteries. I just, we had Guy Grundy on the show last week with Lee Priest and he was saying, you know, you had a heart attack over the course of five days. You had blockages in two of his coronary arteries. You know, this is something that has nothing to do a lot of times with body building or body building, you know, gear or the lifestyle. A lot of times it just happens to do with bad genetics, you know, you have a family predisposition to have high LDL cholesterol carriers to have blockages in the coronary arteries to lay down, calcium deposits. Is there anything we can do about it? That's the question I get asked. How do I come back this? What do I do? A lot of people just come back to me, hey, you know, I got blood work done. I have very high LDLs, which is the bad cholesterol carriers, LDL cholesterol carriers are the ones that kind of traverse and travel through the body and just drop off gunk in the blood vessel walls. And we don't want high levels of LDL. The HDL cholesterol carriers are the good ones. I don't like the vacuum cleaners that kind of go around and suck up all the stuff that's kind of laying around. The, you know, for most body bulls who's gear, however, they're HDLs are suppressed. So that means the clean up crew is not so great. But if your LDLs, okay, the bad cholesterol is not high, then those suppressed HDLs don't really matter as much. But some people have a family predisposition for high LDL. And usually high LDLs is parallel to a correlated with higher degrees or higher likelihood of blockages in the coronary arteries. So what can we do for this? Number one, you know, obviously I've been advocating essential fatty acids. You know, there's two, there's basically two families of these essential fatty acids. And they fall under the, I guess, the umbrella of a polyunsaturated fatty acids. Of the polyunsaturated fatty acids we have omega-3s and omega-6s. The balance of these two is really important because predominantly the omega-6s specifically are raccoon on a guess that are the inflammatory, uh, essential fatty acids. And then the non, or the anti-inflammatory fatty acids are usually the omega-3s. And so when you have the perfect one to one ratio or balance them, they kind of neutralize each other and you don't have excessive inflammation in the body. You do need some inflammation, especially for body-building purposes, the build muscle. So you don't want to have two little inflammation either. So that's why you want these things balanced. Interestingly, now they have actually blood work you can go for it, which can actually tell you your omega-3 to omega-6 ratio. I haven't had that done yet. I should go get it done just at a curiosity. However, so I've been a very big advocate of taking, you know, essential fatty acids. We have a product called the Mangle-ized from species nutrition, which is, you know, three grams of fish oil, which is very high in the omega-3 intermediates EPA and DHA, which are the two essential fatty acids in that family that actually reduce inflammation and do all the good stuff. And then of course you have your omega-6 fats here coming from evening primrose oil, which is a great source of GLA or gamma-1Aic acid. And that is one of the really good omega-6 fats. It actually has an anti-inflammatory effect as well. Now the other omega-6 intermediate, which is known as a rack and an anacastate is the problem of the flameter. That's the one that causes inflammation, which in excess of amounts is not good. If it overshadows the anti-inflammatory, you know, a central fatty acid of the body. But it is good if you're trying to build muscle. So you want to have, you don't want to have no arachidonic acid in your body. It's an essential fat, but most of us get a lot of it. If you eat chicken, red meat, you probably get our whole eggs. You get an arachidonic acid in your diet. For people who are maybe like fish eating, you know, I wouldn't call them the cherry, I guess you can call them pescatarians. They only eat fish. They don't eat red meat or they don't eat chicken. But they eat fish and egg whites and weight protein. They probably don't have enough arachidonic acid. So there's a balance. But I don't put arachidonic acid in this formula because most of us get enough of it. What we want to do is get those anti-inflammatory fatty acids into the diet. And so that's really important. When we talk about the omega-3 intermediates that are found in that omega-3 family, EPA and DHA being the two important ones, they found recently through a lot of studies and on different groups of people that pure EPA oil, just use the EPA, nothing else, can actually have a coronary artery opening or clot reducing effect. Meaning it can actually act like drain out and clear out those coronary arteries. So of course the drug companies had a jump on top of that and they have a prescription form of pure EPA oil. Okay, that you can get. It's super expensive. If you have severe blockages in your coronary arteries and it's documented by a cardiologist, a lot of times your insurance will cover that. But for most of us, that's not the case. But you can go and there's a company known as Omega VIA. And I talked about this before. Omega VIA makes an over the count of pure EPA oil. They're in 500 milligram capsules. You need to take four of those a day, 2,000 milligrams a day to get this artery clearing effect. Now if you don't have any blockages in your coronary arteries, you don't need to do that. So a lot of the doctors, the cardiologists have been writing prescriptions for this pure EPA and or recommending if these guys even know to take this. However, you never want to throw the balance of the EPA and DHA component of Omega 3's off either. So it's kind of misinformation in the sense that a lot of the drug companies are sending to us and that these cardiologists are sending to only take the EPA oil if you want to improve your health and well-being. Because while the EPA can still clear out these vessels supposedly according to the research, you still need the DHA DHA component for your eye health and for your brain health. Remember, the brain is made up of a lot of fat. That's what conducts all the impulses. So a central phase is very important to brain development, to brain healing, to brain renewal and regeneration. So you don't want to limit these essential fatty acids. It's not dimension as far as muscle gains go. These essential fatty acids are components that are made up of will the cell membranes that surround the muscle cells. So when you break down muscle tissue, while most of the muscle cell is made up of protein, which is why we need to have a protein, the outer portion of the cell membranes are made up of essential fatty acids as well as some saturated fats. So you need to take in fats to help optimally repair these memories. And that's why I'm a big advocate of fats and always have been bodybuilding terms. Only recently have I really focused on the health aspects of these essential fatty acids because obviously as I'm getting older as a bodybuilder, we need to consider that as well. We don't want to actually be unhealthy individuals. So these essential fats serve a dual purpose muscle repair. Okay. Production of these, what we call, prostate glands, okay, which are basically the intermediates that are produced from the EPA, DHA, GLA, and the Racket Nonagastid. And obviously the ability also to keep our heart healthy. And if you have a problem and you have a blockage to clear that out. Now, how do you know you have a blockage in your coronary arteries, other than having a heart attack or you know having pain in your chest? Well, we've talked about this before too. You can go now rather than be old way. They had a stick of catheter up your, you know, three you're growing and threaded up through your vessels and go check your heart out that was called an angiogram with now that can give you what's called the cardiac CT scan. They literally, you know, something they put a little die into an IV for like two seconds. And then they take an image using a CAT scan machine and they can actually visualize the coronary arteries. How open they are if there are blockages there, if you have anything to worry about. It's a good idea to get that done if you're over 35 years of age. Or maybe younger if you have a history of heart disease in your family. Just to know. And then I recommend people get it done every five years just to see how your your your coronary arteries are looking. I have, you know, other problems but I have no blockages in my coronary arteries, no calcium buildup. And I'm lucky because my dad had, you know, a triple bypass when he was in his, you know, in his 70s. But he also smoked his whole life, you know, and that doesn't help. That obviously increases the risk of that. He didn't eat well, you know, for most of his life. And, you know, diet is huge. So you, you don't have to be a victim of your genetics. If you eat right, if you take the right essential fatty acids. Okay. And if you do have a, a, a, a, a, a, a some blockage of the beginning of a blockage. Start taking that EPA oil at 2000 milligrams per day from a male, male, mega, via and just stay on it. But the take home messages don't neglect the full spectrum of essential fatty acids as well because they're necessary for brain, eyes and other and muscle repair as well. So you could take your, your omega lies, you know, your three pills twice a day to get your three grams of fish oil, 2600 milligrams of evening per muzzle oil, which is those mega sixes. And then you can also take the pure EPA oil. If you need it to help with the blockages or any kind of potential blockages in those carneroarages. This is, this is easy stuff guys. You know, I explained a lot of science here, but the take home message if you didn't want to listen to any of it, you didn't understand it and it doesn't matter. Take your essential fatty acids. If you have a family history or predisposition for blockages or you have some blockages, take your EPA oil on top of this. I guess why you're good to go. You can, you can, you know, relax. Now, if you eat, you know, foods that are high in good, essentially, that's like wild caught salmon or grass that be for omega three eggs, that's even better. You know, if you eat nothing that has good essential fatty acids in it, because you don't, doesn't just foods you don't like or you don't have access to them or two expensive, whatever the case may be, then you might even want to take a little bit more of these essential fats, just to ensure you have enough, especially if you're a big guy or a train real hard, and you want to make, because you think about it also. If your body thinks that it's devoid or it's not getting in enough of these essential fatty acids, and remember your body can't make these essential fats. That's why they call the central. You have to consume them. If your body's not getting enough of these, and you're trying to burn fat, getting ready for a competition, something like that, your body is, is, is, first priority is not to let go of body fat. It's going to think it's going to affect the price state. Even though you may be eating enough of the other fats coming from red meats and chicken, something like that, but if you're not getting the essential fatty acids, your body will hoard fat, and fight you, and that sometimes is a reason, at least I see it in women a lot, why they have trouble getting their lower bodies lean enough, because they're not taking in enough essential fatty acids, and because women have the hormone estrogens in the variety, that makes it even harder, because the estrogen wants to hoard fat too. So you never want your body to think it's deficient in anything, or sense that it's deficient in anything, because then what it does is it fights you. And if it's fighting you, it's going to make it hard if you achieve the look that you want. It just makes sense, right? I mean, if you don't eat any salt, okay, ever, okay, and then you eat salt, what you're about to do, it's going to hoard salt, because it thinks it's not getting enough of it, and it senses as a deficiency. But if you eat salt all the time in your diet, okay, there's no rise in al dastron, there's no propensity for your body to hold sodium, so now if you eat some salt, you're not going to over-sighten you have bloated the next day from it because your body's used to it. So same thing with fatty acids, your essential fatty acid, okay, content of your body, is something that your body is constantly monitoring. And if you neglect this, okay, and it's so easy just to take a supplement of this stuff, it's going to have negative ramifications on your body building goals. I promise you that. And your annual long-term health. So make sure you go get checked. If you want to add to your blood work, you know, I might add this to my blood work check because I always give a list out. If you guys are interested in the blood work, I suggest or recommend that people get you can shoot me an email at huge285adayawall.com. I'm more than happy to send you the list. I think I might add the omega-3, you know, index or and also the omega-3 to omega-6 ratios so that you guys can see actually when you get blood work, what your status is and you can see if you're actually deficient in these things or if your balance is off. Most people's balance is way off. That's why it's important to take an essential fatty acid supplement. All right, I hope this helped. If you guys have any questions, put them in the comments below and I will try to address it on the next topic. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle supplement in science review.

Day Palomo here with another RX Muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1.com. Today's topic is a historical perspective of animal accelerates and all the counterfits that we've encountered over the years. You know, you guys, you millennials out there. I love to say that term. I think actually with this probably a younger generation of millennials, but the truth is that you guys don't really know how steroids came about. You know, back in the, even before my time in the 80s, you could actually go into a pharmacy with a prescribed regular prescription, like if you were picking up a prescription for antibiotics and by antibiotics, steroids. They had anivar, they had anodrol, DACA, wind shul tabs, and testosterone injections. As well as HGG. And guys were just going with prescriptions they get from their buddies who were doctors and no one cared because it was like picking up a vitamin C prescription basically. And no one solved the stuff. People just had their prescriptions went in and they got their stuff and no one really abused stuff back then because the dosages that people used back then were compared to what people used today. People would laugh at what the dosages were people used, you know, two to 400 million of DACA, they used 20 milligrams, maybe a bunch of shul tabs. They would take maybe one shot of testosterone away, you know, close to a show, you know, they would take anivar, maybe 15, 20 milligrams a day if you're a guy and now women are using that, like, to start off with. So it was a big, big difference back in the 80s. Once 1990 came about, okay, they passed the steroid control act, which made anabolic error as a control pre-substance, which means no one could go into the pharmacy and with the regular prescription anymore and get this stuff. It became scarce. People were panicking, they didn't had it, you know, body bills didn't have to get their, you know, gear. And so what they did was people started faking the gear, not necessarily the body bills, but there were people out there who exploited them. What they would do is they would try to exactly match the compounds that were being sold in the pharmacy. So if you had an anodoro 50 bottle that was a bottle in a box and it would have a red label from syntax, people would actually try to duplicate. And I remember this was before really the internet was around. So you couldn't just go on your computer and print up a label. It wasn't that easy. How to go and get a mage from a label maker. But people would do this. And what what happened, what was happening to the body bills is we would become like, sure, I told them to detectives. You'd have to get like, you're magnifying glass out and you'd have to find the imperfection in the label. The biggest mistake they would made was rather than stamping on the expiration dates and a lot of numbers, which is what the way it normally would be done. Because they would just print it with the label. So if you lick the expiration date, it should smudge it wouldn't smudge it and it would be like part of the label and you'd know that was a big one. That was a big one that was easy, easily caught. The other thing that would happen was sometimes the labels on the anodoro bottle would be rounded and they were supposed to be sharp, you know, right angles. They would do the pamphlet inserts were a big one too because they couldn't get the right paper because most pamphlet inserts are made of an attissuary paper. They would use regular life, you know, I just photocopy paper and they would print the exact insert but it would be on thick paper so when you fold it up, you'd actually, you could feel the difference in the paper wasn't tissuey. That was another way that you really could tell. So the tissue paper inserts and the stamped on expiration date, that was the number one in number two ways. And if you look at the original Bill of Well and Books, the anabolic books, they used to have the fakes and the reels and they tell you how to find it and say, if this doesn't match it, if it doesn't have this. And then as the 90s progressed and they got more sophisticated and producing these fakes, what they started doing is putting holograms on the box, it's because those were almost impossible to to fake and you could actually verify lots on websites like Dankel had a website, you'd go on there and you check your lots and you see your hologram and you know it was good. And that was one of the first security measures that they made. Of course, as you got into the year 2000 and the internet became bigger and China started producing a lot of the raws and selling to the US people started making their own brands and nowadays it's all underground labs. So there's no way to tell. There's no real and faking more. No one's either, it's an underground version that's either good or it's not good. And some people don't even know if their stuff is good because they don't know what they're getting from China. It's good. No one is getting raw, raw powders from China and they're actually running a three HPLC and checking what the potency is and if it's the compound that's supposed to be. So they just put it in the bottles and they don't care and some people do know that this stuff isn't real. They might put test propaneate into a pre-rebole bottle because it's cheaper and they don't care what they need. A woman might use this in turn of self-interimant. They don't give a crap because they're just trying to make money. So how could you guys out there verify now? What do we do nowadays? Well Bill O'Reillywellen, who's been involved in the animal store, I guess you could say business for 25 years, identifying compounds, educating people. Just came out with his new book, Anobox, the 11th edition there. I have it at daypalomba.com. It's a tremendous reference book of everything about Anobox. You could possibly want to know. He came out with these right test kits that I also sell exclusively on daypalomba.com. And once again, you could test your compounds to see if they're real and you see the chart that I have on there actually tells you what vials you need to buy to test all the different compounds. So look at the first line, boldenown there, which is aqua poise. If you want to test, see if your boldenown is good, you have to get the v in the devile. Then you follow the directions, I have some videos on how to do it. Then you go down to the next chart and you look for boldenown there. Keep going. Next chart. There it is. You look right at the top where it's boldenown. You'll see when you put it in different vials, the devile, it will turn from purple and in 10 to 20 seconds, 20 to 20 minutes, it will turn brown. If you match this up, you know your stuff is good. Now you have a way to verify if the stuff you're actually buying is real, which is something that we never had at our disposal in the past. I would have loved to have that in the early 90s when there was all those counterfits out there. There were guys who were using Wincheryl back then and it was actually armoroll. There were massive infections of people had in their legs and getting their muscles full of weight open. You know, what a lot of people, smart people did, at least I did. I know everyone stopped using American-made stuff and we went to Europe and we tried to get the stuff from Europe because everything was an individual ampules and you pretty much knew the stuff was good. There really was no fakes in Europe because at that point in the 90s it was all legal there. You could walk into a pharmacy and Spain and you could buy Wincheryl injectable, that effect three vials, three Wants to see vials of Zambon Wincheryl would be like two bucks. You know, you'd get a bottle of testosterone 250 milligrams in one at CC amp and it would cost you like a dollar fifty or something like that. And so that's everyone was just getting it from there and then they started buckling down in Europe and started following the U.S. as lead of making it harder and harder to get and it became much different more difficult. I remember 1996 when I went to Dubai before it looked like a divide this today. It was just a big desert basically but like a couple of maybe a hotel here or there. I was there with Mielo Sarschev and Laura Bass and we, you know, the amount of gear they had there was incredible because it wasn't illegal and they just were giving it to us and big shopping bags and stuff and I was like guys, I can't taste his home. I don't need this much. You know, even though it was cool to have it but that's, you know, how and I think in the Middle East it's still pretty easy to get, you know, you know, that's where a lot of people go there to train, especially at the oxygen gym that they have but it becomes a little more available and no one has to worry about the stigma of being arrested or that you're criminal using it. It's kind of like going to Colorado the smoke marijuana and you know, you kind of feel like well, right? I can do it every morning or if you go to Holland, you know, Amsterdam, you can kind of do whatever you want to, drugs or legal there as well. So, you know, the history of antibiotics that are used is just really evolved with the times and the laws that they've made and once again, there's always some kind of shitheads here at there are Charlton or frauds, frauds, or trying to make a buckle off of people who are trying to get something that they need and look, I guess take home message here is that you have to be an informed user. If you're going to use antibiotics, steroids, you got to be safe about how you're using you have to understand how these things work but you also got to make sure that what you're using is real because the worst thing you can possibly do would be to use fake stuff because number one, you're wasting your money, okay? Number two, you could be jeopardizing health. Number three, you're not going to get any results, okay? So, if you use the fake stuff for a year because you would too cheap to buy a testing kit on a, you know, a right testing kit where you just would too lazy, you know, shame on you because you just waste all that time and money and set yourself back, you know, all that time that you could have been making progress. So, guys, be smart, be informed, you know, these are the times we're living in, it is what it is, underground steroids are here that I've gone away for any time soon. Make sure you test your product, make sure what you're using is real. I hope you guys enjoyed the little historical perspective I gave you. If you liked these videos, make sure you click below and show us the love and turn on your notifications. I'm Dave Palumba with another RX muscle rant.

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations that are stosed from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best join the evolution. Day Palombo with another RX muscle rant. Today's topic we're going to talk about is HRT Home Run replacement therapy. A lot of people ask me, hey Dave, is this something healthy that you can take and long term? If I take it long term and I replace what I naturally produce, is it the same? Am I going to have the same health benefits? Am I going to feel better? Are there things to worry about? And you know why? If I would have answered this question 10 years ago, 15 years ago, 20 years ago, I would have told you if you replace your total testosterone, let's say your natural total testosterone, we say a natural high level is 850, whereas the low level is 250. So we try to get, when we replace testosterone, we try to get it into the 850 around that range, the high normal range. If we replace it, and we give you 150 milligrams, 200 milligrams testosterone a week of a long-acting injectable, like say testosterone, sipping aid or an antheid, and we get it up into that range. You would think that you would be restoring what you naturally produced and you'd have the same, you know, body chemistry. But just like when you take insulin, okay, as a type one diabetic, because you produce no insulin in your pancreas, you take it to replace it, you don't quite get the same physiological, okay, effects. What do I mean by that? I mean, things happen differently. When you inject insulin versus it being produced in your pancreas, you're fighting the antagonistic hormone glucogone, which is constantly being released every time you take an insulin injection, you get a pharmacological type of effect. And a lot of people notice who take who are type one diabetic, they build muscle a little easier for some reason, because they're taking an exogenous source, if it's the one that you want to have taken more than they would normally naturally produce. Same thing with testosterone. What I find is that what I found, at least over the years is that I've done antibiotics, I've done hormone replacement for 10 years, and now I've been off hormone replacement for five years or more now, and I notice a difference. My blood pressure is not as high off of hormone replacement. I'm natural now, as natural as you can get, I guess you could say. I take my testolized product, just to balance my DHT estrogen and testosterone levels, but I'm not taking anything, I'm not taking a source of testosterone, I'm working with my natural levels. But I notice my blood pressure is naturally lower. My lab results are all normal, meaning that my HGLs, which is the good cholesterol, is high, it's not low anymore. My red blood cells are in the normal high range, but they're not higher than they should be. Once again, your on HRT, even though your levels are on the normal range, you're notice we're noticing low HDLs, we're noticing high red blood cells, hematocrit, which is the thickness of the blood and how many red blood cells are in there. We're seeing differences, we're seeing higher blood pressures. People seem to have to take blood pressure medications on hormone replacement values. They don't tell you this. There's nothing wrong with that, but you have to be aware that if you want to restore your hormone levels to the high levels, they were when you were younger, there is side effects associated with an exogenous source of them. You don't have normal body chemistry, things get altered when you're taking an exogenous, which means an outside source versus producing it naturally. I'm lucky in the sense that my body naturally produces higher testosterone levels. It's not what it was when I was younger, of course. I'm sure when I was younger, I was probably very high in normal. Now I'm mid-range, I'm like 500, okay, as opposed to 850. I'm 5500, I feel good, okay? Once again, I like the way I feel because my other body chemistry is normal. I don't feel paranoid about high-iving higher liver enzymes, about my creatine is much lower. I mean, at some point when I was on HRT, my creatine was, I would consider high. It was like 1.8 or something like that. I noticed it had crept up that high. I don't even know why. I wasn't doing cycles or anything. And when I went off their HRT, and I did all my liver cleanses and kidney cleanses and detoxes and all that stuff, and brought my protein and take down. Now, I'm almost like normal. creatine is completely gone back to normal. And I attribute to a lot of the old things I did, including the supplements and the kidney stuff I used. But also to the fact that I'm not on HRT, I think HRT raises certain blood markers of things. Now, whether that's good or bad or it's an artifact of what happens, we don't really know for sure. But I'll tell you this, I do feel different on hormone, I don't feel as aggressive. I don't feel like I can do muscle as easily as when I was on HRT. But I'm not holding as much fluid either. I noticed that my subcutaneous fluid that I was holding in that could be one of my blood pressures lower is less. I see it my face. I looked back at the pictures. I had a little bit, my face is much leaner now and drier. I'm not on hold as much subcutaneous fluid. And I think that's because when you take an exogenous source of testosterone, just like when you take an exogenous source of estrogen and progesterone for women who take the pill, they tend to hold a little more fluid as well. So these are things that don't tell you, okay? They don't really warn you for this stuff. And so you have to be aware of it. You're gonna have blood markers that are different. You're gonna look different. You're gonna feel a little different. And once again, some of the stuff that you feel is better, I mean, you have a heightened sex drive probably on HRT. You have a better strength and recovery from you workout. So those are benefits. But then you have to also look at the negatives. If you're prone to certain high blood pressure, for instance, or blood clot, you have to really watch your red blood cell count. You have to watch your blood pressure. You gotta take it and if blood pressure's high, you gotta keep it high on your creatine and B-U-N that your kidney function to make sure your kidneys are not being overtax. And as you get older, these things are more important. When you're younger and you're doing this, it doesn't really, you body's very resilient. As you get older though, you become more prone to having problems with floods, or having problems with getting anger reasons if your blood pressure's too high. So, and then of course, if your LDLs are too high and your HDLs are too low, you can get blood, you know, like a blockages in your coronary arteries. So to answer the question, there's no simple answer. And so what I think a lot of people have to understand is that when people give you definitive to these doctors or these supposedly, you know, hormone replacement clinic people, you have to do a lot of your own research. The reason I like tight medical over there is because, and that's why I work with them is because they take this all into account. They don't just take your blood. Say, okay, here's your prescription. They look at all your markers. They see if one person per se is having higher values of creatine, their blood pressure's running. They're looking at the blood markers and if they're not good, they're not going to give you the prescription. They're going to tell you, let's get these values down and guess what, here's how you're going to do it and get it down. And once we do it, then we can go back when we can revisit this. Because at the end of the day, we're doing hormone replacement to feel good but to the healthy as well, to live a longer life. We want to live our better quality of life. Now, I know people that just don't produce testosterone, whether it be because they're older now, okay, or because they took out of all of it, you know, for many years and they just never divided us, never turned back. Or because genetically, they just did, they're not programmed to produce high amounts, I don't know. And for them, they feel terrible because their levels are so low, you know, I don't have that problem. So I don't, I don't have to worry about. For those people taking a hormone replacement dosage is something that they need to do and is a good thing. The question is how much do you take? And that's when I'm over, that's where I'm going with this. How much HRT is, because everyone says well, 200, okay? Well, 200 milligrams per week, if I take 200 milligrams per week, my testosterone total testosterone will be 1500. That's crazy high. I know other people who take 200 milligrams per week and they can't even get up to 800, okay, on their total testosterone. Why? Well, because everyone's body responds to drugs differently. That's just the nature of the human beast, how our genetics play out. That's probably why I put muscle on, you know, more easily than other people, because I respond, look at Kevin LeRoni, you give him a nature RT, does it probably put on 50 pounds of muscle? So you have to see how your body works. So for someone like me, if I ever went back on HRT at some point in the future, I probably could take a, I could probably take 75 milligrams a week of testosterone, long active and be at very high, let normal levels, whereas someone else needs more. The more you take the more side effects, however you get. I know people say to me, hey, Dave, can I take 400 milligrams of testosterone in an antate a week and be healthy? Well, I don't know. Let's take it and see what happens. Form 400 milligrams a week is what I would call a pharmacological dose. Usually it's gonna take you over the age 50 value. If it doesn't, you're probably using bootleg testosterone that's not dose properly, in which case I would tell you, if you're not getting it from a legitimate clinic like Titan Medical, I would say you better go by the Roy test kits I sell on Daveelumber.com and the quantitative test. Now that we have both, you can test the testosterone to see if it's a legitimate, and then you can test using the quantitative test how much is in there. This way you know if you're a testosterone dose properly. These are all things you need to do and you need to get blood work to test your testosterone estrogen DHD levels. If you're on HRT and you're gonna plan on saying it for a long time, you're probably gonna take a product like test the liys as well because that's gonna balance those testosterone estrogen DHD levels in your body. Understand that each person is a separate entity. And each person has to look at these values and how much they need and what their blood markers are and what their levels are as an individual person, not as a group. We can't say, well this person does this and I know five people to take this amount and that's when I'm gonna take no because every person is different and processes these compounds differently. So, to summation and summation here, if you're gonna take HRT because you're low and you need it, okay, you have to understand that you have to figure out what the correct dosages, okay, because you're gonna be doing this long term. This is not a short term solution. And if you do decide to go off, you're gonna have to figure out a strategy so you can make sure that your testosterone is high enough that you feel good, that your health markers are good and that your estrogen and DHD are in check. And once you have all these things figured out for yourself, okay, congratulations because it's not gonna apply to anyone else. Remember, we're all individuals, we all have our own genetics, we have our genetic gifts and we have our genetic flaws, you have to figure out what your as are. And the only way you can do that properly is through blood work, I highly recommend you go to TitanMedicalCenter.com. They'll send you for blood work, they'll check you mark as the help advise you had it adjust the level so that you get them where you want. And if you wanna go on hormone replacement, it's up to you. And you make that decision and you do your diligence on yourself with working with a doctor to see what the optimal levels are. On day polo, with another Rx muscle ran.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning. On day polo and today is Friday, August 21, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Finally I've been talking to some of my friends in the corporate world who've been telling me about how there's a big push now to making practicing mindfulness a part of the daily routines. The thought is that by taking more time to be aware and intentional, it'll free up their minds to be more effective decision-makers. But people like Samsung doubt or don't need a mindfulness retreat to get their heads right. All they need is a gym, a pair of headphones, and a date startled on their calendar. I've been told by a few people that Samsung is quite targeting a new show sometimes soon to make a season debut, where I think he has a chance to make a huge impression if he's on his game. Samsung has all the tools you look for in a future Olympian, and if you could hold it all together, that future might only be five months away. Here's a fun back view. Did you know that when wolves hunt large prey, there's one animal in the pack whose job it is to circle around the front and take their victim head on. With so many wolves circling in the men's physique division right now, I'm curious to see which one of them is brave enough to be the one who tries to take Ray Edmunds head on. If you just look at the recent history of the division, when someone makes it to the top, they usually occupy that spot for a while. When raised at his best, he's a different type of animal. He's got a bigger bite than anyone who's been in his place before. So if someone is trying to circle around his front, they better make sure they come correct. I've been around long enough to have seen or read about every supplement and pill known to man, and I could say with a hundred percent certainty that there's no magic bullet that can turn you into the Hulk overnight. But if there was, don't you think a guy like Josh Wade would be the poster child for something like that? Recently, Josh announced that he was planning to make his season debut with the Chicago Pro eight weeks from now, where I'm sure he'll be ready to jump right into the mix. If they're having to stop and start his prep a few different times, due to shows being canceled. If there's one thing we know about Josh, it's that he's not the type to shy away from the grind. He likes to dig in, so I'd expect to see him kick it into height here over these next two months now that he knows for sure it's go time. Until I had kids, I never truly understood what it meant when people said youth is wasted on the young. And now that I do, I can say for sure that all of those people are wrong. Just look at what a guy like Hunter LeBrona has done for body-building already. Not only did he step in and dismantle all line up of battle-tested veterans in his pro-day view, he also did it in a way that completely re-energized the part of the season that was losing a lot of steam with shows being canceled left and right. He brought a youthful energy back to body-building at a time when the sport desperately needed it. And I don't think he's done yet. There's still a ton of uncertainty swirling around the rest of the season and being able to latch onto something like Hunter who has an intangible, it-factor will be huge over these next few months. This isn't youth wasted. It's youth stepping up and seizing the moment the way only young people can and I think we should all try to enjoy the ride. And that does it for yet another edition of Lusselin the Morning on Daypalumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

3, 2, 1. Welcome back to live with Brought to you by species nutrition on Dave Palombo and it is really an honor now to have on the show our Tampa Pro men's open champion is first pro win in his first pro try on to LeBrona. Welcome back to the show. Hey Dave, thanks for having me on again, man. I'm starting to like how infrequently we talk because we're only talking when the show's right. That I'm not going to talk a lot. I don't feel we'll be able to talk a lot more about it in a couple years. Yeah, we're talking very frequently because you've been winning a lot. Now let me ask you this question. I mean your dad wins his pro debut. You win your pro debut. A lot of similarities there. You know being undefeated as a pro your first shot out has got to feel pretty good. Man honestly it really does you know I know no entrain is not to win every one trains to win but you know it's one of those things the entire time was training for the contest and it truly believed with every bone in my body you know as long as it worked hard and you know do what I need to do with all the plan and execute that I would win when I truly believe that the entire time. So it was really cool to you know have that belief come to fruition. I really feel like it bolstered my confidence a lot coming into the pro ranks and it was a honest man the whole weekend the whole week was like a dream come true. It was like kind of like fairy tale to me just like everything that happened you know leading up to the show how the show and how like it was it was really cool man it was a very cool experience. The funny thing is you'll probably remember this win beyond all the wins whatever you get in the future because what happens is they all start to merge together but you never forget the first one. Yeah. Now let me ask you a question because I love to ask people the question because when I would compete and I've said this before on interviews I would look at my pictures after the show no matter how good I did even if I won and I won a throw up like I would see every flaw in my physique I wouldn't see the good stuff I would just say you know what everyone else says he looks great but I I'm missing here and I'm missing there. Did you really say that you said that so this morning was the first morning I went to the PC news online and looked at my stage shots from Tampa I drove and you know how I was like normally like you see like people sell a sticker that you start seeing all the good professional photographers pictures and then the then then your actual stage shots drop and you see I mean you're like and you know this morning was the first time where most of them I was still like but you know there were a couple of I was like okay I can work with that. Finally I know like I see stage shots that I'm actually so much pleased with and you're not saying so yeah it's never satisfied I don't think anybody will ever satisfied. Yeah I'm not introducing. When you when you look at yourself in the last time you got on stage when you went national what do you think you made the biggest improvements in over that course that year? It was it was a year and I like nine months actually and I feel like I like look like I hate myself all over if I'm being honest you know the scale says the same thing national before I walked over the finals I was 229 pounds right um the be morning of the show this year I was 249 and then I walked over there I was 247 right before we walked over so you know good good solid I was definitely a leader for the show the nationals as well so I couldn't have been happier at the progress we made you asked specifically where to I think I made it specifically where I needed to make it that's no secret but from the waist down I'm pretty complete and pretty there in terms of the mass and stuff I needed from the waist up and I feel like I did put on quite a bit of the size and the time frame that I had from the waist up and especially in the back and something I'm really looking forward to continuing to improve on because you know at the timeline that I had this last year I really only had about three months of really trying to push the envelope and get new growth you know that I had my surgery I recovered from my surgery I got back for it. I was telling you how ever you want what you had what injured and and how that went because I think a lot of you had an injury you dealt with that was you know pretty pretty severe a required surgery. Yeah so I've said in a bunch of interviews so I had a like boiled down a little like 30 second high-light reel what happened 14 years old got tackled from behind came down on the shoulder broke my arm up here dislocated at the same time blew out my transverse humor element so looking at the poles the long head of the bicep in the bicep little groove from the time I was 14 until 26 it was basically just riding in and out of the groove rubbing itself in half it started to really presenting it painful after I won junior USA's I thought it was just kind of an impingement like getting back like from the show getting hydrated thing never got better when it got the MRI on it and that's when it was presented as okay well you have some pretty bad degenerative stuff going on in your bicep tendon and we're gonna okay well is it something we can push through it is something you need surgery I saw three doctors two said and surgery one said let's do it the one that said let's do it I liked the most obviously but the one that said was also the orthopaeducing Texans so I trusted his opinion we went through it you know PRP toward all whole nine yards for nationals didn't really train upper body much you know couldn't do a bicep curl couldn't overhead press all machine work for chest is very limited finish the show had to have the surgery thought I was gonna try and get a better therodry for three months and I was really focused on his letting my body heal didn't happen had the surgery woke up from the surgery and the doctor says so if it presented the way that it actually was I mean MRI I would have told you don't go to the gym the next day because he said it was like holding on by like a thread so you like it in terror actually yeah I'm I'm very very blessed didn't tear so because of the fact that I had it repaired instead of blue and blowing it up it's literally exactly the same as it was and it's the same size you know it's exactly the correct it's perfect instead of you know exploding it and then having to go in there and fish it wouldn't have been the same so it would have been a career and they're honestly so feel very blessed to not have that happened but that's what I want to show you so I have my shoulder fixed that bicep 10 and got drilled into the bicep little groove I had some rotator cuff stuff cleaned up and I think that actually needed sutures or anything though and my AC joined the bridal then yeah that was it so wait for it once we take it to 50 like I like I yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you don't hold or replace but that that who cares you're you're you're really now do I just I need another 10 years of another you can help them you know it's funny because there's a lot shoulder injuries are really common in body you know honestly it's it's a busking in the career it's the most mobile joint in your body obviously so you know it's with that mobility and then with what we do you know if they screw them inside first your feet both the muscles they have the tendons that all that mobility it needs space to move around and you just take that space away over the years obviously the bigger you get and yeah because of the problem for those big guys eventually and most of your really conscious of a for sure and some people you know like I had like I had too much space in my mind my joint like it's not too short because you have been crazy heavyweight you did grinding in there and that's you know that's why I think my shoulder joints didn't last as long you know all good though you know what you did the right thing and you know a lot of people don't want to go through that process I can't tell you how many people I talked to you it was one of the first things I've ever done in my life you know you don't know for surgery because I like it because you got to think about let me think the picture before I have never had surgery before I never been under anesthesia before I had just one national 2019 was my year that I was supposed to spend you know I'd go around the country I guess posing seeing everyone I have them fun having my year to go over for my protein view and instead I spent it at my house so I've deeped up for four months in an arm swing so it was hard but you know if you end up the day it's what needed to happen at the end of the day you know not a perspective on things and then the end of the day it's a lot of me to get healthy to the phone rank and train exactly like I want to you know people are blown away by this crazy progress this crazy progress happened the four months of healthy training I think those gonna happen big long offseason after I do the end it's gonna be fun I'll put this out here I'm gonna make this much progress between the series between last year and the series and we'll just do this year next year which is you know 10 to 15 times the same way but I'm making heaven you know like I said I and I and it happened to my career too but they have a solid like you know offseason like of training when your healthy is and your focus and you have the ability to live that bodybuilding lifestyle there's nothing you can't make it everything and everything everything everything everything everything everything's done everything's done it's crazy I'm a progress like you make think about Dorian the progress we made from 92 to 92 or a lot yeah or cry when they made the crazy leaps it was because everything just kind of worked out perfectly now going into this year's Olympia being your first Olympia is it is a little nerve-racking a few I know obviously with the crash on you but but it still has to be pretty amazing thing they hit your first year out there you know like it's been it's been so like it kind of hit me when I want to tell you okay you're looking at qualified you're going to the Olympia like I told myself that and then it's like it's been a whirlwind but yesterday so I forget what paid us on I'm gonna saw the Olympia qualified list you know and the Olympia qualified list you know like I'm reading and it's like you know like fill he's making a dash you know James Lewis how do you pay and you know roll you in clear William Benach and then there's Hunter LeBron at the bottom and I'm like these are guys of an ointment like the last like five or seven years since it's that kind of made it set in and see like a little surreal for sure so as far as pressure goes ahead and into it you know I had a really interesting conversation with my mom and dad about this about you know what it's like going into the first one and I can't tell you how much how you know in a good headspace I am with it because of the fact that I won Tampa before Tampa I had never lost I've never lost his name I'm not sure I won I did five shows I won the overalls of four of them it's crazy I'm free of them and into it and we're national level shows so you know head in the Tampa I had never lost before and you know I was very much able to maintain that mindset you know throughout prep you know the handle your business and you're not gonna lose you can't lose you know so I took that with me to Tampa I did what I did in Tampa I have that mindset and tap now head it into the Olympia it's it's not it's not a possibility to win it your first time it's just they're absolutely isn't it possibly the winning first time it's never been done it won't be done it is what it is right so with that pressure of you know like you give you the winning remove I can focus entirely on you know bringing this the absolute best package that I can bring and you know really I feel like I'm gonna be able to bring something that I'll be able to stay next to some guys and you know be like oh okay he does belong there you know especially with the time that I'll have starting crap for the Olympia very lean you know I'm one of those people that can definitely grow into shows so my body feels very healthy right now and we're still you know fresh off a show and I feel healthy so I'm really excited for what I think I'll be able to bring in the improvements I'll be able to show let me ask you this question because a bunch of people you know as soon as you win everyone loves you and then it's then they also want to also deconstruct you and figure out what's wrong with you the pectare you have a little bit of a pectare on the left pecta a lot of people comment the other we all have a little we all have a little beatings here and they're what what happened had that happened and that happened before I even started body balloon that happened when I was 19 years old which it was basically man and I'll put this out there to everyone if you're a bodybuilder don't do flat bench press I agree the day the day that I did one 35 for 20 185 for 20 225 for 15 275 for 15 315 for 12 365 for 10 and the first wrap on the eccentric before of I did it. Is this the terrible exercise yeah it's a me it doesn't look bad I don't know I I think a lot of people just making a big deal because they're trying to find some little chink in your arms. There's been a long time since we've had a mystery one peo that I don't say that I Dorian had to turn by some for quite a period. I don't know if you can have a little thing here in there for sure and you know one of those things too that it looked so much worse a year or two ago than it does now because I couldn't push hard on that side from the shoulder the amount of tissue that I've added around that time for the last four months it's going to become more and more and more and more and more of a not as few as time goes on people don't even know the tissue that I'll be able to add around and do the fact that everything else is healthy. People will realize also it's not a tendent hair it's an intermuscular tear and people get those all the time and it can't tell you how many times I'm in the gym and I'm you know like you said bring in the way down and you feel that little separation you stop you put the way down and then you know you get a little little divot you know you're a hair you know it happens to everyone and it doesn't you know it's like to be truthful if you haven't had I had two different than just come up to me and say normally it's not like that about to me but it doesn't affect your flow at all and it really won't hurt you in the lottery. So yeah that was really nice to hear too because honestly you're just something that's on my mind especially after this week it gives a big hit a lot of attention but you know like you said Aaron like I said there hasn't been really any mr. Olympia that hasn't had something you know so yeah I was backstage at the gym in the USA speaking of junior say 94 and Gary striam bruise. Okay Kevin lover and what yeah like to be really like yeah I'm very sure I didn't was guest-posing it was warm it was that he was like pumping up backstage with like 60 pound dumbbell flies or 50 pound dumbbell flies and unlike well it's Gary striam bruise dude I can do it. I don't know what possessed me to pick these dumbbells up and do it and I tweak my pack and you know what backstage like before a show backstage pumping up for junior I say I'm like what wrong with I was so mad I was so mad I was so mad I said about this I got a little different from it though that you know what I never ever for the rest of my career ever pumped up backstage in weight I would only pose and I think that's one of the biggest mistake people make is over pumping backstage absolutely you know you can go to just as much blood in the muscle from posing but posing goes all the water in too so what am I doing you're in shape all you have to do is is pose backstage you get the blood flow that's it you don't get the blood going and get the water these guys are doing like an hour workout backstage I don't understand you know so anyway but it's all great. I let me ask you a question obviously Ian Valier and you were battling first and second I don't know what had happened to Ian who his turn wasn't good he was like you were like the epitome of like polish and and that's what you should be and he looked like who was like something was just off I don't know if he was sick or what but it just goes to show you how important you know that whole presentation is that's a me guy and a got from your dad like you know presentation and wait you know it's something they definitely got from my dad but then it's something that I've always kind of ever since I've started bodybuilding it's never really made much sense to me to not have things that are completely under your control to go completely right you know my my color heading into a show that's completely under my control I made sure weeks and events that the girl that always tans me can be there and I proteins always done my tan I've never had anything else on you've always done in the same process it's always come out the same it's a very you know like just like you don't know I don't stress about my tan because I did the homework kind you know and like you know at any level that should be something that's done you know you you something is completely under your control you know the same way like you're trumps fitting all right the same way the trunk color being flattering you know the same way you know like getting your water in every day during peak week like all these things that can make a huge huge difference that are perfectly under your control you know it's it's it's it's it's it's unusual to show to show and be shaking like the leaf and out of breath after posing around it means you were just lazy like you skipped her it's like skipping cardio to make I don't know like you want white train hard to do in our cardio and diet and they basically kill yourself if you're not going to be able to present it it doesn't make any sense and you know and early in my career I was also guilty of that because like you know it was just I was so focused on the diet and the training and all that stuff there you know it's that reason on the east coast it's really funny I'm sorry interrupt you but I was saying the difference between me and my dad yeah obviously my dad is a huge person and presentation and that the posing team yeah I was one of those guys I was posing three and four rounds of days of my mandatory is because I know my mandatory is a little bit of a chance I needed to be able to make them through them and like I'm thinking okay you need to be able to post three rounds that your stomach go and like that in my mind where I have that that my posing's unlocked that's your me and my dad differ because he's like I'll be the first one to admit I've been kind of been more polished but I was spending all of my time in the little energy I did have in the final weeks make sure my mandatory is around the point that's where we end up with a little bit but we both believe yeah well you know what you're smart because they don't even care about the the posing round anymore evidently whereas when you dad competed that was like a big deal like now it's see my opinion that is why they say they don't score it judge this recruitment beings and so our audiences and it's human nature if someone presents something that really is beautiful and moves you and captivates you is as objective as you want to be you know it can't create things like all things were the same well he really did something you know at least I might not feel like that I could be that thing you know and if it comes down to that one level half percent and it's something that's in my control I'm gonna take it well I think you know and I said this many times before I think that you know Kai Green was probably one of the best free poses and the posing round but in the annitories while he had good endurance because he practiced so much with him because his mandatory is we're not that great I mean I think we've got to think about Kai's closing how beautiful and cool it was it was the transitions with the dynamic posing around him so cool that amount of muscle moving is fluidly and is dynamically as well as that's what made Kai's posing so awesome you're right but I'm just saying I don't I think he if he'd worked more in the mandatory that I think he might have beaten fill a couple times you know I think that fill was a little still a little more polished I don't know what she's got there bad I was so I can say about that I really find a lot wouldn't it be great if the two of them were on on the Olympian stage man one more time just so you can say I have it but I have the best seats in the house yeah let's talk to me a little bit about third place competitor Duane yeah a lot of people super duper duper duper impressive like super impressive and I really get the internet you know like way of doing that robbed I can understand where it's coming from especially whenever the shot like this is floating around you know this front last thread was the best front front front front on the stage by far he just a freak in the fact that he was going to be doing 2012 until four weeks out and I decided to do open like I got it to my hat to the guy for sure I was just you're ready and no that's got you to know that that I heard that from a couple people I his coaching and decided that they weren't going to squeeze down to 2012 for a week suddenly that's crazy you know that being said if you're objective when you turn us around I feel like he needs a little bit more hamstrings to be truly competitive in the open class I feel like his body's really good but I feel like he doesn't need a little bit more hamstring and you know coming from 2012 like that's something he can fit so he really quickly you know so I think this guy's the limit for that guy he's got some crazy crazy genetics of shoulders that front last thread's nutty nutty nutty nutty so yeah I was very impressed with him he seems like a good dude too yeah and I tell people look first of all I wasn't at the show and I never judge a show if I'm not there because you know what when you you get to see these guys on stage together your stage presence and you have been to an avati living shows you know pictures or not it's a non-sarvey you can't go out and I'm not and I'm not being racist at all but black eyes look better in pictures because no that's that because their body the shadows but they take out so you got to be in that front row with the judges judge and you know what alone in pictures he looks great and if he puts on another 1015 pounds he's going to be dangerous but you won that show I mean there's no doubt about that I mean I would agree with you I respectfully say I agree with you yeah I mean you you just you dominate that lineup and you know it's it's nice to see you know I think you're you're the feel good story because you know people what like the whole legacy of your family and they they want to see you do well just like we want to see Sergio leave a genie do well because because of his dad and everyone loves his dad as well so to see you guys following in your dad's footsteps and create your own legacy is like something like it's a fan dream because we can see dad on stage anymore we can't see others in third year as dad is not even alive anymore but if we can see that next generation of guys that are taking what their dad did and taking it even to the next level I mean to me as a fan of the sport taking myself out of the forest can't get enough of that it has to be nice to you it says no all right here's here's the question I want how tall is he dad my dad is five five okay I I think he's shrinking I know I shrunk it like at least I will say this I will say this I do think he was fact six a long time I really do I really all jokes aside he is six years old and I really do think he's got my little shard yeah we all we all shrink dance from all this cutting over the years and you're and you're five not right I'm every bit of five nine over five nine not five ten but I'm over five oh yeah and you weighed what you weighed the day of the show I weigh in 240 nine when I woke up and I believe it was like 247 before I walked it unbelievable okay and I think you I think your body can probably hold another 15 pounds I think I think I could hold another 15 from the waist up yes now yeah I'm gonna let you off I know you got to stop you today my last question is Lee priest on my last show I did with him on Iron Age I asked him about you know your potential he feels that you can be Mr Olympia one day what when you hear like a guy like Lee priest say that what does that mean to you man to be completely honest with you I've had quite a few people of his you know like statue gravitas if you will you know reach out to me privately kind of saying things along the lines of that you know I've said the same thing as you know someone asked me like oh fucks wheeler said said that you can be the next Mr Olympia two and it's like I'll say this to hear you come from people like Lee priest or flux wheeler that they believe I have that potential like it is the biggest honor in the world to me you know that being said you know they say about potential it's a big asshole and you know what else they say how many how many all this because future Mr Olympia is in good you know there be 300 Mr Olympia's right you know so at the end of the day it's surreal having people like that say about me but I know it's just a whole until I throw it off course I'm a look at Dennis Newman Dennis Newman won the the USA everyone said this guy's you still won't be got the key to the brewery yeah I try brewer all right there's you know again his and they make big flashes and they come and you know this sports America that's great I think people like that you're a young guy coming up and you're one of the few guys with potential we haven't seen any new people who who emerge with such potential it's such a young age and I think that excites people we want to see the new the god I don't want to see the 40 year old guys winning the Olympia I want to see the new young guys I want to see you out you got us coming up you got us coming to me James Reagan yeah right here's a good crappy young dude coming up yeah there's a crappy young dude coming up well Hunter enjoy these spoils of your victory of course and I know you're Olympia preface probably gonna be starting up in a couple weeks but rest up and once again congratulations on the big one thank you Dave appreciate you have me I'm really absolutely you want to have you want to thank anyone or call anything yeah no let me say something real quick I want to thank LeBron nutrition I want to thank gas they really have floated me through you know the last couple years more recently revive came on and pride foods both of those companies were companies as using before I actually got sponsored with them very people behind them great products that they make a huge shout out to my mom and my dad without them none of this is possible obviously in addition to that my training partner Brian Trin and I'll have to get to me a huge shout out he welcomed his little girl into the world yesterday I would have been able to see what's in Tampa with me the whole week before I would have been the board I would have been the board I waited for the divorce me if I were to go yeah so just to be fair it was a schedule C section we went to the doctors like everything was good and we tried to like we could get them back within my four hours of her calling because there were that many flights back and forth so I still I would have been divorced we got a shout out to shout out to him right and then yeah in addition to that just my coach Andrew you know this is the third big show we'd want together you know the first two were national level body welling shows were one my class in the overall and obviously we just want our bro debut so looking forward to showing you what we cook up into summer and you know beyond that I just I really have to give all the glory to God for this without without him this isn't possible and you know I told you at the beginning of this you know this whole week it was you know I say I say it's a real I say this I say that you know I say it they felt blessed you know just being able to do with my family being able to be there with you know like the people like everyone everyone there is been doing this with me for two three four years and you see in those YouTube videos and stuff that people I find myself saying a lot after I won the show I feel like I'm a blessed person and the world to do what I love with who I love and so to be able to say that again today it's pretty cool hey man to that yeah well thank you so much for joining us take a time and enjoy the rest of you day for now though we are at a time here I am Dave Palumba with another addition of live with we'll see you next time thanks for having me did thanks on

This is Dave Palombo with an R-Ax muscle update. I'm here with Lee Priest and John Hansen and we're going to be wrapping up tonight. I have to be Tampa Pro men's open event that took place. Just minutes ago John left the venue he was there in the front row and the press seat. John Huntal Abrautah. Another generation of great bodybuilders. This is his birthday new. He wins it. Tell us was he was he is good as advertised. Yes, he was. He was excellent. He was awesome and it was pretty wild seeing Lee the product son up there. Lee LaBrada was right there on the front row with his wife and his kids. And man, he resembles his dad's physique a lot. He's a super sized, obviously. But he's got a lot of same similar qualities, great leg development, great side tries to pose. It's even broken to a flaws when he hit his side tries to. I was just telling Lee, that's why I put this picture on that. I said he was. I try his unbelievable. Lee, it really is on candy. How much in contact with shape he looks like his dad doesn't mean I think Lee was probably a little bit leaner in the face, but overall the similarities. I want to ask John, of course I didn't see the video. I'm sure he would have had a good posing routine, Woody. Yeah, he did. The best pose you're a team of the men's open for sure. Started off doing the lunging pose, like Lee, he'd used to do. And he finished up with that pose too. So it was some kind of classical, slower music. But yeah, it was really excellent posing on a lot of Lee LaBrada poses too. So it was really cool. It was really cool. I go back so I remember seeing the Neville Brought on stage. And it was really, really cool seeing the sun do the same thing. I have to imagine that to see your setup on stage, I mean, I wouldn't want my kid necessarily go into bodybuilding unless it's something he really, really wanted to do. But if he did it, and I'm back, to see your setup on stage better, maybe then you are in having more potential because he's obviously taller and he's bigger than Lee was. Yeah, exactly. No, it got to make Lee feel pretty good, right? Yeah. And he won this first pro show, just like Lee did. If you remember Lee won the 86 night of the champions, come right off the universe win. And his son wins this first pro show too. So he's going to the Olympia. He said he will be at the Olympia in December and Vegas. Wow. I'm still sticking by my prediction that within the next couple of years, he's going to be top-free or even win the Olympia. And I leg up, run her up a few times. But I think he's son is going to pull up and get us in there in the LaBroute of Family. I believe it too, Lee. I think so too. I think he definitely can do it. He seems like he really got us back together too. Real good kid, you know, and real humble on stage. And it was a convincing way. I didn't think anybody was close to him. Well, I think we've lead in his corner too. I think he's going to have that smart head on his shoulders from his head. He's not feeling like a full of a gatelet sea. I big I can get in the quickest amount of time possible. I think he's going to pace himself with Lee in his corner and do it in a healthiest possible way. He can do it and just be smart about it. Yeah, I agree. What John Europe master of like statistics? What was Lee LeBraided wing and how tall was he back when he competed compared to Hunter here? I think Lee was five, five. And he won the University of 176. And I think, you know, when they did that way and at the 88 Olympia, he went in at 176. Oh, did he really? He was that light, huh? Yeah. So I'm sure he was probably 185 at the 92 Olympia one Dorian. Yeah, I think the if I remember correctly, they fleshed the thing once I was reading at the could have been the 92 one. I think he was 186 was the heaviest. Yeah. He was 186. Right. And that's certainly not heavy at all. What I didn't mean is that. So what is Hunter? What is his stats? I think he was 246 something like that. Well, 247. I think different, right? Yeah. Yeah, his legs were phenomenal. Huge legs, really good arms. He is interesting because he had the same weak points and strong points that his dead had. Yeah. Great. He got his routine here. Hold on. Let me see if I can pull this up. I don't know if I've watched him, Hunter's progress. So the member in the first got into it, you'd see him and everyone's thinking, oh, maybe he might do a physical seat because you're the physique and then maybe he'll do classic as almost like he's going through a physical seat, classic straighting the body body. Yeah. Tess is routine. So we can kind of watch him do his thing. He does head a lot of the same poses as dad. He's going to let the lead the broader poses. John, you were there in the front row. Was this a convincing victory? Yeah, definitely. I didn't think it was close at all. What do you think clenched it from? Just more completeness? He just had everything. He was really full. He was real hard. His collar was fantastic. I don't know who did his collar, but he stood out because his collar was really, really good. Yeah, he just, uh, was a convincing way. I didn't think he would be in the Larry was really close to him. It was supposed to be real close for those two. But I thought he had him all the way. And I think in the same thing, gone by, you know, photos always had to tell, but I was saying overall, Hannah just looks overall like more complete. Pallies to the team, everything and looking at Ian, that just seemed like Ian, gone by photos again. Just looked a bit flat and he's just looked dirty, compared to. Yeah. Now, polish with right and looks. That's a perfect work for it. I mean, I think it's a perfect work for it. Look dirty, you know, and, and, uh, Hunter, his tan was just like golden. It was like really, really, really. What is, you know, he always have problems. I know he's very pale off season, but, you know, we always tan. I mean, I was always in the tanning bed, you know, prior to putting coloring on just so that if you sweat, you're not going to have like zero underneath your, your, your, your color, you paint on. Right. I just think that the skin doesn't take the color as nice. When you have a good tan. I think something with you. I know, remember, basically use Jane Tannas sometimes. It would never stick under my body. Pro team would work and then I used to use my food contest, color, but there were certain things, wherever it was just the chemicals in the tanning. It would look good on me. But then as soon as I come up and start as sweating, it would just run off. It wouldn't take the my skin at all. So I guess maybe people need to start practicing a month or two out, which pain is going to stick to their body. Right. Right. And the funny thing is about this is that Ian is an absolute freak, you know, before he starts depleting downing at that last week of the show. Like I'm almost wondering if he's if he's over depleting for these shows because Hunter looks bigger than him in these pictures. And there's no way that Hunter is bigger than Ian. Excellent. I think they weighed about the same from what I heard on the podcast. It's really in came down that much. This is a guy who weighs two 70 on stage a lot of times, you know? Yeah, I think they're pretty close. I think they overdid it, maybe. Yeah. I've never been down by the pictures. They've been surprised if that Dwayne had a got into second place. Gone by photographs and stuff, but you can't really tell him that today is, I guess, the V in there. And it looked like it could have been fairly close for Dwayne. Can I ask him that guy was excellent. Wayne, he was excellent. I never saw him before, but man, he had, he was probably the hardest guy up there. Really, really good abs. And just a really good body. His conditioning was fantastic. I could have seen him in a second. Now talk to me a little bit about the Wayne Walker because we don't really know that much about him. A lot of people don't know about him. I love his insight. Yeah, I love his insight. He has great muscle separations. He's got good abs, try to relax. We don't see him. We've talked about him before. Some reason that we don't see a lot of try to pegs anymore. But this guy has got lots of, you know, crazy separation in his body. And he's got great separation. Great abs. I mean, a lot of these guys, you know, you see the guys from to rip boots and they're missing the abs. The abs are totally washed out. I see that more and more of these pros. Right. Not this guy. This guy had washboard abs. I mean, they look fantastic. And, you know, he always has a classic look to his physique. Doesn't he? Yeah, he does. Yeah, there's a lot to be said for, you know, coming in sharp and condition and separated. That's what Phil Heath was so good at. And that's what this guy has to. Very pretty physique. That's funny. If you have his shots, he's side on in different poses. He just looks like a small version of Tony Freeman coming up. That's a very, you're right. That's a really good comparison, you know? Yeah. I think giving him another couple of years to and he'll be. Yeah. I think this guy's going to go far. Who's really got a great physique. I'm impressed with, you know, just he has like almost like, it's like immature muscle like you know that you just wait for this guy's body to explode, right? I mean, like at some point he's just going to. He's going to just reach his potential. Yeah, so he's staying with when Ronnie Ronnie was competing when he started off as a pro. He had to everything. Yeah, but he had there soft looked at all the sudden one year just went boom. And you're like, yeah, right. Right. I mean, look at the glutes and hands right there. He seems like a very young guy too. So I think he's got a long way to go. Right. Look, you know, there was a lot of potential in the show for the fact that, you know, a lot of the international guys couldn't come in and compete here. I think we got a pretty good show and I don't know if it's because guys were diving longer for the show because, you know, I'm sure a lot of these guys were going to compete earlier and then they had to keep putting it off putting it off because the oldies show is getting canceled, right? Yeah, we'll like that classic physique guy. He said he was diving since February. Yeah. That's crazy, right? Yeah. I wanted to go under what they're eating now. Yeah. Exactly. But you know, that goes to show. I always say if, you know, it's the people that work the hardest to make it rewarded, you know, because If you put all that work and you don't give up, it's the guys that give up, they just get screwed, you know, because they're like, Yeah, because they don't even get to get one stage. They can complain all they want, but you know what? No one told you to stop diving. Just looking at the, I just looked at the comparison shots on page seven day, the last picture of the most sort of standing relaxed and the way 100 is looking there. He looks so much identical to Lee just standing there. Yeah. He, you know, he obviously Lee is definitely helping him out. Obviously with, you know, all his, all his posing and presentation. He's not even posing. He's just standing there smiling. You'd swear it was a young version of Lee standing there. Right. He's got that same thing. He's got the same faces him. It's crazy. Yeah. He's got to get rid of the beard and get the mustache on then. Right now, you know, right? Because he did that together. He would be like a clone firm. It would be scary. Yeah. Yeah. And they're good to see. Like, I know I'm my daughter. She did a couple of shots in the same studio. I did wear in the same overalls. Twenty six years later. Oh, because I don't want that. The same pose. It's good to see. That's actually great. Hunter, grown my station. Do some old classic. Yeah. That would be that. It just for just for pictures. Yeah. Well, I'm Paris, and yeah. Let's talk about Phil Quahar, who I actually helped. And, you know, he was, you know, I said, you're going to do well in this show. Because I knew how well good his conditioning was. And, you know, he wasn't in the first quad at the pre-judging, but then he moved up at night and wound up finishing in fourth. He actually got the third place vote as well. So I'm talking to me about him, John. Yeah. He had a really good overall structure, a real big guy. Why? I would think the only weakness might have been his calves because you could see that in that. Yeah. That's, you know, he was lacking a little bit like the hamstring calves, but overall it's real big guy and really, really well conditioned. So another real strong competitor I thought. I told my kid, look, you just, you're still coming into your own. He put a lot of size on from last year from where we started working when I started working with him. And he said, look, you just, you're still, I know he's not like the youngest guy, but he's still like growing. He started late. You know, sometimes you start late. You don't peak collater. Yeah. Yeah, I do. Thank you. Well, you have a right spring as well. I don't know if I'm wrong. I'm wrong. Yeah. Nobody knows because he won. I think he might be in his late 30s because he won a man. He won the man. He got his pro card. She gets pro card down and like one of these like Caribbean championships or something. Yeah. That's something. See in that shot how wide he is and look at the guy. Yeah. Yeah. He's got a big structure on him and he can hold a lot more muscle too. That's what's going on. Yeah. Yeah. Let's, you know, when you see, well, let's talk about let's talk about the fifth place competitor. Because you know that that whole top five was really good. Ronald Gordon was was I think was super impressive too. I, you know, anyone at the top five really impressed me because usually in a pro show, you say, well, you know, the top two were good. But then everyone else sucked, you know, that wasn't the case at all here. You know, right. We had a lot of like really good guys in this top five and which which had to make the show really exciting to watch. Talk about Ron Gordon. And I think like you said, D for a second, David, which may be Ian overdiding. He just, I don't know. It just says that looking all the photos where he doesn't look confident. He doesn't look like, you know, he just looks like he doesn't want to beat it. Where everybody else is smiling. He's the hope stage presentation when you look at the E and he just like, well, you know, Lee, when you, remember when you showed up at the LMP with the long hair, you knew you were, you knew you were in a shape. And I could tell you were not your usual self. Oh, I was like, I was like, Donald, I was like, Donald, it's a week before. Yeah, I know. But you know when you're not in shape or something goes wrong. I think maybe he just wasn't confident. Look at this. Like everybody else is smiling and looking all right. Right. Even like he just just looks tied and with the, like I said, the team looking like that almost looks like it was a rush. Robin, I just looked like Todd or that one and be here. Yeah, I don't know what happened to me. Yeah, sometimes when you get stressed out your pH of your skin changes and it won't accept a color either. So that could be a problem. Ron Gordon though, look at this wacky shot. I mean, I mean, you look at this. You're like, this guy probably won the shot, right? I mean, that's what I see when I look at it. You know, he's got some wacky cool shots. Yeah, he could still fill out more and could still use the more thickness than you have for body, because he's still on the wide, but he's another real imposing guy. I mean, he could structure a long and it's height. I mean, he's got great genetics too. How cool would see John, do you know? I don't know. He seemed like he was taller than everybody else. I'm going to see like, well, Ian Valier is about what I'm with six foot, right? Yeah, I think you're in honor of what five and five nine. I think John says about five nine. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, so this guy had to be at least six feet. Oh, wow. I mean, look at that back double. I mean, he could be a little maybe a little sharper, but like you said, it's a little bit more muscle maturity maybe. Yeah, I just think like in his torso, it needs more size, but that'll find my guess with time. Yeah, no, I'm pretty impressed with the way he looks here. All those guys think great leg development. When they did that final call out, you know, and they were had Lee and Ian posing down against each other, were people going crazy? You mean, you should be sued me. Hunter, sorry. I don't think Lee Priest was in the shower for a minute. Oh, Jay. Yeah. I felt like the audience felt like Hunter had it all the way. I didn't really feel like it was a close thing. You know, it seemed like once he came out and did his routine, it was pretty dominant. And I think he established himself as the winner. Right, but you don't think that they did. Did they usually when they do those call out, the crowd goes crazy. I mean, I mean, I listen to New York, they do. Give me a little crazy. I don't know. I didn't have the top four. They didn't do the top two. No. Were you at pre judging? Oh, no. I wasn't a pre judging. They had the two person call out. And I mean, look how wide he is, but you're right. Look, he looks like he just got rolled out of bed there. And something definitely happened. I'll have to get him on the shot. I guarantee you had to get you the sick or maybe he was throwing up. I hope he doesn't have COVID. You know, are you worried about that junk going to the show? I don't know. Everybody's wearing a mask. So I mean, the hotel is really, really strict. Like when you walk, you did your temperature and everybody had a wear mask. And even when the show was over and everybody cried out into the lobby, he had the hotel employee standing on the stairs yelling at people to head their mask down. Oh, really? They were really really strict about that. Yeah. I just went through all of the ins pictures, the four pages. And you must have heard something on his mind because he's not smiling in any of them. No, I mean, who doesn't smile on stage? It's the first thing to hear. I'm surprised everyone that went that assured, it must have been like shit. I'm getting our temperature taken a bit of layoff to clean for the next two days. They're getting the shit out of the house. At least they weren't doing anal, anal temperature readings, and leave, right? Or the sun, the these guys might like them. My old house buddy Paul DeLett when they're going to visit the fake land and sit there a day. Sun on burn and up on burn and up sun. They could have been doing the anal temperatures. They could have given him that job. Yeah, you feel 90. Let's segue John, just real quickly. The figure champion. Let's let's play a farly. What were you think thoughts on how to see her on stage? No, I didn't. I just thought of that. Are you like black men? You don't even watch the girls come on. That's why you're a little out of it. We were wondering, right? So John's having trouble opening his eyes up. What is John Hansen drink? You know, when he drinks? I was having the cardi and coke. Nice. What somebody shares about that long, you go to drink, just to get through it. Right. Exactly. Look at this, Lee, look at this physique, though. I mean, this girl is, I never even saw her compete before. She is really good. What a bunch of what a set of quads are, right? We're seeing her for better. Phenomenal. Yeah. I mean, this girl is going to be, I think this girl is going to give some of these Olympic girls a run for their money. I think she's that good. I don't know if you guys agree, but I'm very impressed. Great structure. Yeah. Great legs. Right? I mean, she can always do women's physique, although her upper body is not as big, but, you know, I'm impressed. And Jennifer Dore won the, the, the, the, the promocene, did you see her? No. She's, she's, she's a, she's a perennial, obviously top Olympian. And I think that, you know, a lot of people just come and, they want to compete before the Olympic, you know, so this was their first chance. I thought they had a great bikini lineup or it was Bolbicene, Olympia girls in lineup here. She jumped back in when the wellness was on, didn't you, yeah. No, you missed that too. Oh, yeah. That's when he started doing shots. You know, I gotta tell you that the whole, the whole wellness thing is, you know, I've been pretty vocal about the fact that I, let's, I'm gonna pull up the wellness winner, okay? Who looked really good by the way? And I want you guys to distinguish for me, if you can. No. We see the, we see our bikini championship, Jennifer Dore, right? And now we're going to go to our wellness champ. You tell me the difference. Okay, Renee Hartley. Can you, what's the difference? I won head purple on, she's got white and gray. I need his theory difference. I don't know. What do you mean really? Do we really need another category? I mean, obviously, what if she looked from the back? Is there a lot of great from the back? But I'm just saying she's, I mean, the bikini girls have have nice round, you know, from the, when it really goes, you've got to see who's carrying the most money in their pouch, why look at it? I'm going to give you a booty shot because it's just fully pretty, just fully free. Yeah. I can't see that pose. How's that? Like glasses on too. All right. I mean, that, I mean, let me, let me, let me, let me, to spray it, I just don't see a difference between bikini and wellness. Now, does this, I thought, I thought they were going to much bigger, loose. This is the winner, this is the winner. This was the winner. I, to me, I think you could, you could put the bikini in, you could put wellness together. And I don't think there's that much of a distinction. Maybe it's a little more muscle and wellness. Yeah. I, look, you know what it is? It's a very big division down in South America. I've talked about this before. And the cost of that, they, and they running shows down that they, they had a sanction it is what it is a mouth or two. But I don't think it's, look, it's like it would be like coming out of the men's division. I mean, what else could we do? I mean, at the Olympian, instead of the two, 12, can we have the two, nine with it? Just, we should do the, you know, how they have those, you know, how like some like gay men like the hairy hairy guys. We should have the bear, we should do the bear division. We instead of, you know, instead of shaving down a putton tan on you, you come in completely pale with just a hairy chest that I don't know. And a bead. And a beard, right, a lot of hair. Now, we, we call it the bear division, you know, and. I can catch that. Why not? Sanchin it, right? Makes a money. Well, it's not going to be a thing. Well, this, well, unless you may, would, to me, it's almost like when they hear well, this is almost when you go to the just the normal nightclub, when they said to Hawaiian tropics, hunties. Yeah. Yeah. Similar to that, it just looks like they get a guy who's in good shape, looks like a model or a girl that looks like a model and they would win prize money and stuff and smell like coconut oil. But they're not, but the girls are a really good shape. That's the whole thing. If they're not just, they're not the key. They're not like bar room, high body kind of, you know, people. You know, if that was the case, I'd be like, all right, well, that's what they want. Fine. But if there's not a distinction like that, it's just weird. I got, I got to pull this one shot up. This is a great shot away. Oh, I mean, keep calling me. Oh, my God. Great shot of hunter, hold on. Is he doing that same pose there or what? He's doing this, doing the butt pose. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I'm sure you talked about George Peterson already, right, then. I talked about him yesterday. He did my rap at B.S. They're on him and you know what? How, Lee and I were speculating for how would, how would George have done in the open class? Oh, I think I'm in great. Could he have placed top three? Yeah, I mean, sorry to say how he would have looked next to the bigger guys, but, man, he looked fantastic. He was definitely one of the highlights of the whole weekend. Real. Yeah. That's a big deal. Not really. He was like, he was like, There's the thing like the Leela brought a back in the open days. Yeah. How's that shot of Hunter from behind? That's a great shot. I mean, look at the glutes, hands. I mean, the guys got a lot of muscle maturity for relative to young guy, you know? Yeah. I think he's going to be a future star. I was predicted he's going to win the Olympia. That's what Leela's prediction has been. Yeah. Do you agree? Yeah, I think it's possible for sure. And I don't even think it's back is one of his strong points right now. His arms and his legs are the strong points. But I think that's, that's like bad there. It's like I said, so when you're looking at him, he just says the quality is that a young Jay cutler head coming up in a new Jay head potential later on. And he went underwind the Olympia and he had a hunt that looking at Hunter, you sort of see he's got everything there. He just builds on it and does it smart and everything falls into place. Which he's doing. Before he would. Yeah. Well, John, thank you for, you know, even though you're drunk. Thank you for a recapping show with Leena. And obviously, Le is got a very bright future. We, Hunters got a very bright future. And I think I predict that Ian Valier will come back with the veterans, vengeance of the next show and we'll come in right, you know, full dance, ten. And I think he'll he'll win a pro show before the Olympia and we'll see him on the one of these stage. How many from this show qualify for the Olympia just the first or top three or the first and then you get points. So for the top five so. Okay. For the other guys have to build a, which which are significant, though, Lee, when you think about it because there's not that many pro shows before the Olympia. So if you get points in one or two shows, that could be enough to qualify for the Olympia, you know. Is that any more to more shows in the narrow. I don't even know how many more they're going to have. I near Crow right, we got still. What's the reporter? I a bit of a ask Nick strength. Yeah. John Hanson just statistics. I, but he's drunk. He doesn't remember anything. I know I got you cargo to right. That's right. Yeah. So the John does remember after going to a show that long, John's trying to fucking forget. He doesn't even need to call the get drunk. You get drunk just from being there that long. You get it, Lucy after while you're. Exactly exactly. Well, guys, thanks for joining me again. But this little Rx muscle news update on day polumba with Lee Priest and John Hanson. We'll see you next time. Thank you.

All you people look at me like I'm a little girl What do you ever think it be okay for me to step into this world? Oh Like you're this rumor that Jimmy Tom is a cockroach on the busier Yeah, there is actually a... People took a look at me and I'm heart beating That everyone took my pizza left Don't put it on your shoulders You can't do that

Nive for the�RX muscles to your discs... is the heavy muscles無hhh.... with your muscles... Cause you're Neo's Dave um Uncle Century Lump Metal Ax Sh Et meible tube AAAHH Ya dragons Chettles and my friends Welcome back to the episode. It is August 17th, 2011, and we are here at the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury, New York. And I am here with the entire WAC. We have a full studio today with some very, very interesting guests. People coming as far as California into the studios here. It is very special guests sitting to my right here is Juan Diesel Morelle, who was just came off his second place, finished in the super heavyweight class at the USA Championships. Getting ready to the North American to be hired in the studio and do a little posing with the IFB Pro Chris Cormiero. Yeah, awesome. He's a beast. I learned a lot from him and he's told me a lot and you know what we actually spent an hour and a half, but at the USA in a little high-fowler he was able to fix my routine, fix my posing so that night time, he commented on how much better I look, how much better my posing was and it was just a little bit of a half hour. Now in an hour and a half he taught me today a lot of things that I know is going to come and hand he comes to us from now. Isn't it amazing though? You think you know how to do all the work in the gym, you do the diet, and then it comes to something as silly as getting up on stage and posing and it's little details that really make it huge difference. And we're going to talk a lot about this with Chris a little bit later in the show, but I'm happy you're in the studios. I wanted to congratulate you on your second place, finished in the super heavyweight class. And hopefully you'll be coming home on IFB Pro at the North American Championships. Hopefully, God willing, I mean I worked hard for it and I feel that I feel this is going to be my day. September 2nd, I feel like I'm going to be a pro. Give us a little give us an arm shot or something like that so we can show the guys what's going on here. Wow. One morale gate has been gaining steadily 10 to 15 pounds of muscle every single year since I think I met you, which was about four years ago. It's almost incredible when you think about it because a lot of guys can't gain one or two pounds of muscle here. Well you got me eating all the time. You can't just lose. Don't tell the world you've done a lot of unbelievable even. But we have a few more celebrities in the house. We have Jeremy the casting director here. I want to just congratulate you. You had been falling off the cuff a little bit in the last couple weeks. You booked guests, they never showed up. This week, however, we have a full house and you have a special guest coming in from New York City who does explain what she does. Well, her name's Kat and she actually does a little bit of a bunch of things. But she has a DVD out for a... Oh, I want to do a bunch of things. She does sex or size basically. Well, kind of yes. It's exercise for better sex. So she has a DVD. It's functional. Right. And she also trains people. A little on the kinky side. So if you want to get that kind of training going, I'm sure she has a whip or something she could whip you in the shape. She looks right herself. And you guys are going to see that I think she's going to be a good guest. So this is a good, a way to find Kat. Actually, my best friend's dad is her account. So Jeremy always has... So it's like six degrees of Jeremy, the cast. Oh, it's like Kevin Baker. Yeah, he knows everyone's somehow. We got a Jeff to produce with his new haircut over there. Well, you know, again, I can't match this guys because the wind is coming from this direction. It's kind of pushing it that way. Mine, the wind's coming from beneath. So it's going straight up. He's got that like swoopy haircut. I'm trying to think of what Cartoon character has that little swoop. Oh, that's right. The, uh, we're like with the blonde hair, right? There you go. That's it. I'm going to talk with Chris, quite a bit of throwing in from the side lies there. We also, of course, have Magnus Magnificent. Oh, hi, hi. Hey, hey, hey. Hey. Now, uh, you have, uh, I wanted to ask you before we start the show officially. My, uh, my earring that I got, my ear that I got pierced and, uh, we had Lisa here from Bill and Sheaware. That's finally healed a little bit. Where I could actually lay on my head. How is your nipple piercing? They got nothing. Payingly once. No, no. Let's give us a little preview. Let's see what it looks like here. Let's perfectly play the main point. Very willing to show my dad. Still there. And you have even doing the, uh, the care. The care. Not that the day for, I think these, uh, alright. It's a little bit more. I'll be more, just. I'm staring at the cat. So, I'm going to be a show. He's not on the other side. He's not on the other side. He's not on the other side. He's not on the other side. Oh, right. Jeff, is that for me? Yeah, no, it's because Chris showed me that if I pose a third of the way, I would flex the deck and such it direction. Why don't I hit the little ghost deck up? Wait, what type of press that Lisa say I had? She took the book was the day she gave it to me. You had that sat nipples. No. I meant, meaning, meaning in the post. It's very cool. It's the meaning of both now. Um, so. You gave me a couple pictures here and you told me that you became a mess that was a, no, that I's made methadist of the day, that they had their eyes. Oh, you were methadist of methadist of methadist. And they had the end. a barbecue and their pastor in Reppent Duan, he's a really cool guy and he said like I'm just making sure that's past the loo and with despite my reading, there were very nice people, there's satinists, they came up with the two years at the church and he's really, really hip and he said I'm going to make you Methodist of the Day and they welcome me, he introduced me to the congregation, he told them that I was writing a book that it's coming out in December, which I thought was all very grateful and they tweeted me with a little like a family, you're very open to religious beliefs because you were, I think a rabbi for a day and that was cool and I've now owned a methadist and I've got a shower, Chris just kicked out that other swamps down, I got a chance to call the little piece of happen which is going to be in my next book and it's that I'm desparking to pick, like it's just a delight for little, what's your next religious expert are you going to become a Muslim for the day? yes and my first assignment, I'm going to blow up America and that's going to be my first assignment I'm going to become a Buddhist, I think that would be cool, it's got might be the Hindu, I can do it, I like that but I'll maybe open to different people, like the types of religious beliefs maybe you should report me, we should send a camera crew with you when you go on these religious beliefs you'll be 72 virtues but I don't care what we're looking at such a distance, long as who you are super excited, you like to festive aspect of the religion, more so than the actual like the Bible says, right in the closet and whatever you have to do that, it's a matter of the way to say, I see the best place to praise the closet because the hypocrites I have, the ifleaching and the minute you hear somebody preaching, you know, they have to create. what do you always say, love thy? they buy, never love thy, enemy, now I know she have this, you've been very excited about this peanuts book here, this is great, now I just want to before you go into what why you have the peanuts book here and probably a lot of our viewers like Pete the intern probably doesn't even know what peanuts is. yeah I do, it's what you eat, you eat peanuts. Peanut's. yeah it's over. Pete's never, he's too young I tell you, this is like from our generation Snoopy and Charlie Brown. I know Snoop Dogg. When I look at this book that this is great. I know it's a library book because I haven't seen a library book and well I didn't know people went to the library anymore because with the book. Oh, I throw it like so, especially you should step up. I'm still busy because I think that people just go online and download books, it's a cult spring hop a lot for every and it has cult spring hop, but that's a 13 million dollar Why did the libraries put those plastic coverings on the books to make sure that they're not far you Dox or cats, so anything like that what it is I got you and what's the what's the our special occasion The 13th of the 16th anniversary and it's a great book and I draw shorts the author the writers Child Shops is the author and I thought it was really cool that he passed away 50 and he was the me out the day he's I guess she learned after 50 years how to do it. How to do it. Yeah, it's exactly like bunny host First quarter me as on his second slam shot You'll get used to be by the end of the show You You Life is paying Life is dedication Life is pressure Life is 28 Sp<|zh|>ian is evolutionary nutrition the species line of products champion original thinking and carried for process to its larger conclusion in the form of Supplements that's strictly alert to the corn nutritional principles of Dave Pulombo founder of species nutrition Visit species nutrition.com to purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today They're full here to the theory of a choice election Consists and all the fit survive species nutrition.com This is eight time missile Olympia Lee Haney and you listen to our ax muscle that calm Let me go back to one for a second one talk to me a little bit about you know How hard is it to I mean you've been diving a long time now you did the USA championship now you had a continue diving I know you're eating a lot of food, but after a while it becomes mentally tiring I mean how do you get through the day and how do you get through your work? It's it's funny because one a Jeff will send me emails at four in the morning right I'm thinking what does this guy do in up? He's dieting and then I realize he's waking up for the day. Wow. I'm obviously still awake I know you're still awake down. Yeah My boy is up. How do you motivate yourself every day when you get down to the mini-gritty? I love motivate myself is honestly I have a passion for this sport. I mean I love Body I love working out. I love doing everything that I do so is like I don't do this just because all I'm gonna get this and get that That's just a plus that I can actually get a career out of you. You do it for free. Yes, pretty much is what I'm doing for now You have to do it for free. It's costing you quite a lot. Yeah. Yeah But um, you know, I mean I just I first of all love training anybody who sees me in the gym knows I love training I love train hard I cannot back down and like oh, you know where I'm gonna lift the plate today and Quarter the workout and just going in jerk-wreck. No, I can't do that. I love to train But um it gets hard right now because I'm tired My body's just I guess my body fat levels as soon as so it's like So how do you get out of bed every morning and say I'm gonna go to the gym? I'm gonna do my workout Well, I can get myself an option. I just get up Wow, and that's important because I think a lot of people do get themselves the option some people in the list of options One of the options is I'm gonna eat extra food today one of the options is I'm not gonna do the cardio And one of the other options is that I'm gonna complain about it and you don't seem to have those in your option list No, I mean This is something I chose to do and why am I gonna complain about it first of all? I love it I mean, you know, it's hard it gets hard at all That can begin in the start of easy eight weeks out you're still you know pretty good Once that level by fat goals be on the certain point You just feel like crap all the time no matter what and you know you just If you feel like shit, but you have to tough it out and especially if you want to be a champion You want to be a winner, you know, I mean you have to be able to to me I don't restrict myself and give myself no limitations. There's nothing I would not do To be my opponent. I would do whatever it takes whatever it takes. Let me ask your question This is a serious question more serious question Relationships is it hard to stay in a personal relationship with someone when you're when you're It is I mean it's very hard no one understands very hard a few people understand yeah, I mean I mean I mean I had a few relationship one That I had which was the longest that I had was like two years what I was doing is we didn't break up because about it Because she was very she knew how to get in my space the last eight weeks But what I've had problems with recently is girls like you know they just Get to the point they get clinging in like the last eight weeks you tell them like listen Oh, can I I need some space and that what you're in a relationship you can't have space And I'm like well listen, I need to do this. I need to do that. I got to I got to I This is stuff I kind of do and they want me to take our time listen I'm talking about a week of a relationship For me to do something that is very it's for my career You have your career. I'm trying to do my career now. I feel he's being focused on what he's doing Yeah, I do you have do you lose relationships matters? You're with your theory me with the writing and you're fighting the selfie just say it's I'm passionate about what I do the writing comes first before I anybody so you so you have trouble staying in a relationship Because of the fact you're so passionate about you're writing the You might blow and girls off a little bit I see how focused he is I have a goal and I'm trying to get to where I got to get to anything the same I think it's anybody who's with me and if this I'm in a relationship with somebody They have to understand now this is something I'm gonna be doing for the rest of my life All four as long as I can do it is if eight with I'm action for eight weeks You know, I'm still there. I just I need to you know you need to be supportive of that and be there by my side If I need to some time alone because even as human beings we all Need our space I'm a person I love my space I Have to be for the minute I wake up next to you to the minute I go to bed It's like the man that takes a special moment I'm watching woman I mean I was space you understand this man this because I he actually took a photograph of his Facebook page and he's gave it to me here and it I To take you on my face if he has a couple girls to say I'm so excited for your book magnets another girl who says I cannot wait I cannot sleep at night thinking about when I'm gonna be able to see I didn't People are looking forward to your book, but yet you know these girls don't understand you need your time to write this I'm not all that I'm a shameless promoter I see no and I love the promoter So these women think that you're like a media horror? Yes, I know that I mean I'm shameless at it and I'm good at it and I don't hope back it what I do and I need to promote myself And they don't understand why I need to be constantly going up to total strangers telling what I'm doing To problem it's a problem well we can Explosive Jeff what about you when you uh, you know, you don't you don't compete and you don't I don't I don't I don't I don't I I don't do anything at all right? I don't even read the fucking world sandwich When you are you? When I what I audio at it, I you know I have to let my girl know I'm like look woman I have to fucking audio I mean I have the audio at it So allow me to audio it. Yeah, that's usually what I told them Yeah, but usually it's you know, they they run away for the water they always can't do Anyone without the okay deal with with giving the men their space we want to hear from you Right us please and we will bring you into the studio Maybe we'll have a set up a get a date with Magnus or something like that I'm gonna date with one that might go be a little more popular but for now we do a commercial break I mean come back Chris for me over here

...lives from the R Worth's muscles to your fists! Is this the Heavy Bottle Show? With your hands saved on the wall! ...seem to lay the neck back! Shaving practically, Peter K. Lovely Ар Fleisch! Tell him not to let those process burn! All right, while the back of the break on the break, while we were waiting, I heard a motorcycle revving its engine and look who walked in at Jimmy the bull. Did you actually hear it from outside? I heard it from outside, yes, I did. I was actually just ready to dock you too. It was just about the co-baked of the Texas. That was a big talk to me. I thought it was like, I've fortunately, I just got off work so I had to, I just... You've been working a lot? Yeah, I'm exhausted man. You look, I don't know if you look bloated or if you just look bigger. Have you been training? Uh, it's probably a little boat, you know? Probably more bloated than anything. Yeah. Yeah. I get a lot of, a lot of Turkey's slumber wouldn't work. I guess the salt retains a lot of weight. Why is it that they do a lot of the guys that do construction and trucking and so that they like the Delhi sandwiches? Is that just because it's simple? Are you easy to access? I mean, I usually make mine the night before. But I, but I, by Turkey, that's what I eat all day. I just said that. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about 20 Pepsi's. Now we have Chris Cormier, I FBB Pro and now Venice Gold's Jim officionado trainer of Champions. In the studio's oil from Venice, California, Jimmy. You guys make the same. I got a guy's man, way back when in the Palm Springs Gold's Jim. Yeah. Yeah. Talk to me, Chris. I might have never said you met him. Right after the earthquake, I met him. Wasn't there an earthquake down there? Man, he had a bigger earthquake than, was I in the one of California? It was like, wasn't it down at Palm Springs? Because you said you were selling shirts, shaking bake? Was that you? Was that you? Was he doing? Was he doing? No, I couldn't swim. I went over his house. Yeah. And that time, you know, Chris was an entrepreneur. He was making money anyway he could. I was making a big, I was making a more year. No, I actually, I, yeah. I asked him where's shaking bake, you know, what that means? Because because the desert, you know, shake in the bake. Because it was an earthquake in the desert. So it was going to shake. So that's something that doesn't matter. It's a little confused effort. No, it was an earthquake. That's what the shake in bake is. Yeah, shake in bake. It was a dinner game. It was a dinner game. It was a kind of point, but it hit hard down in Palm Springs. Yeah. I've never experienced an earthquake. Thank God. What does it feel like when you're actually in it in the midst of one? Is it scary? The decent Andrews Float line runs right through Palm Springs, right Chris? Is it scary? Is it scary? Is it scary? Is it scary? It's close. Is it you, I'm certain when it's going to stop. You're like, when you're going to stop. When you're moving around. You're going to home pool with empty out. And shit, really? Yeah, for most of the people who have empty out. Like, they cracked the pools. Just the whole, the Earth. The Earth is a world like a mitigation. Like, if it took a shit in the water, actually, do you fly out of the pool? Oh, no. Oh, no. It's fucked up. Ripples. I tell you exactly what it feels like. If you want to get it, have a feeling of what it would have kids feel like. If you stood on a, got out of your car on the Wingsburg Bridge or Varnas on a bridge and you stood on the bridge. I wouldn't move a little bit. Yeah. You could feel the weight of the bridge. You know, as a first day, give a little bit. You can swathe in the, that's what that's what it feels like. You could feel like the weight of the Earth. It's a, it's a weird feeling. Because I wasn't, to what I'm a Santa Monica. No, was this, when you and Chris met in Palm Springs, was this when you were living at a Connor's house? Yeah, I was living at, did you hear the story about how he wrecked that Connor's house? Oh, I didn't hear it. He did $20,000 worth of damage to that house. Oh, I saw people molesting 20 cells. Oh, yeah. That's what they say, man. I don't know. Yeah. I don't know what he said. And I told me, we're in this house. Yeah, yeah, it probably came with that. It's not a, you know, no kind of shit up. Yeah, they were throwing shit in it. Yeah, of course. What was he lifting that? Chris was a very, you know, strong lifter back in the day. Yeah, what? Did you guys ever do any kind of chess work? That's when you were at your best, you know? I'm kind of stood in the style. I was like, I could quite, you know. You were teenagers back then. But I was quite a bit. We trained in the same gym. No, we, you know, we, you know, and then we started hanging out a little bit. And we were doing kind of cool. Funny, he's cool. He always told me to talk out of food. I can't, you know. I think I eat y'all. Hey, oh, hey, oh, hey, oh, hey. I thought, but that's so funny. I got a booty show. I thought it showed. You were a muñe, we kind of can hang out. Yeah, go to the movies and live. And that's when I got the whole idea, when we started selling the shirts to shake a bit. Yeah. We'd go, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was just, just amazed by how strong you were. Oh, it's brutally mean. Oh, this is not my, I just can find that way. There are that boyd arbor, they don't move the shirt. Yeah, they don't move the shirt. They don't move the shirt. Yeah, we don't go, we're about to get it. Don't worry about it. Get the fuck out of here, you fucking asshole. It's an Italian expression for a wine. You're a fucking asshole, you're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole, you're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. You're a fucking asshole. Yeah, that we, that mean, we've kissed had a mutual friend too. We're the time we had this, this, this young kid, jazzed him, he's jarrid. Right. Is he starting to? Crystal knows every, it's amazing. It's crystal. He's actually with everyone still. Crystal knows every person he ever made. He's still in contact with everyone. Yeah. He knows, he doesn't matter what city this guy goes to. He's got a guy there. He's got a house he could stay in. So he's got a pick him up from the airport and he's got a place to tell a foreigner. He's like, well, why? Why? He's got a place to tell a foreigner. He never, because he doesn't break out. You know, when you meet someone, you might never talk to them again. He stays in contact with everyone this guy. That's good, darling. He's good. He only lives once. He's the lot. The twins always take people home and give a shit. That's, that's cool. I like that. So anyway, this guy, you know, we, we were like, I don't know if I met Jarrett first and then Chris or Chris first and then Jarrett. I think I met you first and then then Jarrett came along, right? Yeah, because he was trying to be a body. He was trying to work out. Yeah, right. He was trying to like, you know, do all buffered stuff, you know, but then that met his girl, you know? What is girl like, like, she's hot, man. I want to bang us so bad. Really? Yeah. Yeah. At that time, maybe early 20s, maybe. Cause then he's got a club. Then we, that's when that's when it was cool because elders risked themselves. But they had, that's when when when the pump paid. Yeah, pump paid. Spreens paid. Oh, people would go to their for spring break. The five spring. Oh, spring break was unfuck and believable, man. I never even knew they had a fucker spring break down. I didn't even. All the sudden one weekend was like fucking mob to what happened. I started trying people away because they didn't want it. Okay, one year they didn't want to have the G strings on the back of the bikes. That was the best part. I don't even try to cut that out. You can kind of cut out the different. Yeah, they were breaking balls. Yeah. I mentioned people's marks that when they start going to the river or else, or elsewhere. And then now they're like, oh, please come back. Please go back. They didn't realize how good they had. The best part was, he's seen rice burners coming down the street. Oh, it was like a bike week. Spring break went to have the kids brought all that fucking. It was, it was the bikes. You should say anyway, Mingler started short. They used to buzz around their old ladies on the back. Right. I mean, how the girls got to sit on those things. You know, you know, You know, The fluorescent color, uh, G strings on. The town people got upset with that. I didn't get upset. I loved it. I know what happened with this guy, Jeremy. I was in a couple of accidents. What if we're looking at that is? What happened with this Jared's girlfriend? Did you ever have sex with her? Well, what happened was, uh, you know, uh, I tried to, I tried to ask that. Oh, the rock that was happening. Yeah. Yeah. I have been, you know, I hit on a couple of times, but you know what it was, uh, It, it Jared, like kind of looked up to me. And she felt bad. She felt bad. She felt bad. Oh, so you're right. Yeah. I don't feel bad. So you're right. It's a good idea. Yeah. She was like, I was head of like it. And then she was like, Get her own, generally looks up to you, you know. Christopher. Oh, man. Uh, she was fine, man. He was too young. You were still toning his shoulders. Yeah, we were too. She was too. I'm a, you know. She was too nice. I don't know if you're aware of it, Jimmy, but it's going to be, It's Chris's 44th birthday this weekend. And that's why he's going to be going out. Oh, we're going to do some body and yeah, he's going out. Where are you going out in the city this weekend? I don't know. I think my body bones were going to bring me somewhere. But where are we? Yeah. Where's the part of his real, Paul? No, no, no. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, Jeff, the producer just woke up. The one thought you were talking about. Yeah, no, they still run. Paul, when who's at the maniac? Hopefully. Yeah. Have a day of the day. Didn't they have like a, they, they opened the world wide. Pono was something. We have a TV show. Oh, so. So, what's going on there? Are they having their own guys? No, these two, we met these guys from Israel. Yeah. Yeah, it was, yeah, it was off. I think everyone's going to vote off a game. And then the guy, and then see, Oh, uh, Zion. And then we're going to see. And then we're going to see what was the purpose. I don't know the hotel, holiday, holiday, uh, long time. What was the purpose of the, if you had to tell him something. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The black little curly hair, who is best friends with the old firm in the, and bow. I thought that was off the loop. Hopefully, we're doing a TV show. So, you got that kind of feel. I know, yeah, yeah, yeah. These guys, uh, they're from Israel. You know, of course, we met them in the gym stuff. But, uh, yeah, right, they were bodybuilders, you know, but, uh, Why not one more than that movie with on the floor? Oh, that's old for several, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. That was a little over. That was a little over, right? No, over. That was bigger. I was in the movie. Yeah, yeah, that fight went on and the bathroom scene. Remember that? The group on the department. That's okay. That's what I wanted to say. That's the guy you should be with the friends. For my. Yeah, I think, I think that they should edit that name out of that one, but I, but, uh, I think they're going to win away. They're going to win away. They're going to win away. They do, they sell porn on tape. Pretty good, man. They sell porn? No. No, you don't want to talk about it. Life is paying. Life is dedication. Life is pressure. Life is p28. The shooting is evolutionary nutrition. The species line of product champion original thinking and carries it for the process to its larger conclusion in the form of a unique supplements that's strictly alert to the corn nutritional principles of Dave Palabo, founder of species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com to purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today. To purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today They're full of here to the theory of a choice election It sits and all the fits survive species nutrition dot com This is the heavy muscle show With your host Steve You This is Dexter Jackson Mr. Lampieu and you're watching all right's most of dot com for the best covers of the Dexter Jackson classic Let's go back to So your friend Beau who's not the bow is in the portal boys. He's the guy who lives in this and you are The bow is taking you to posh. He said which it used to be called the sound factors And I know you've been there many times Sound factor. Yeah, I know you've seen the ceiling many times And you have to produce a happens to luck posh. That's one of his Well, I liked it. I liked it when it was still sound factor. I didn't go there as much John John You know I'm surprised you by You know I just I just just came to my mind. I was in Vegas And I walk it to the fucking night club right and there's Chris on our fucking one of those podium standing up there with a white Jock strap on So that's when you got naked in the thing He stripped down and then you've lost his metrics kind of check because of that But he was just a guy He was Probably the worst person the walking would have been Scott Kyle you should have pulled him around What's got his kind of bomb anyway, but you know He was He was really That's right He's protected at the clubs, but not this bad guy if I abandon that night What kind of shit happened? Yeah, white van sites white me Did you do anything about it? Yeah, I changed the van down And I started beating on the fucking door and everything Scott told me that I'm how to go get me You see a wild didn't there you see I didn't take much man for me. You know, I had to hit trigger fucking pepper Well now you go in there. I am assuming you know usually people get the posh at 430 in the morning They don't usually go early. I don't know when you're going you'll probably be there all night. I assume right I'm sure victorly yeah, I remember leaving posh. I wanted for in the morning In Victor was just getting there, so you know he goes out with the lady crew Exhausts gone but the saffectors are placed by poshers in the same building it's the same club essentially No, I got a couple of guns at least second give you a go Hey, the wicked kitty Oh Later on the show we have cat who does exercise for better sex It's gonna be damn interesting If you're gonna light me she can recommend some places maybe she lives in the city so oh Well, let's talk about like latrapies and the now carousel Marks he doesn't like you. Yeah Laughing Shit So that you don't mad I go I just pick a chicken on a street we go You're not really a couple you just go Yeah In my experience I would think that the swingers are the people kind of ugly in these places I don't know my stood up you don't even care Whatever's best thing you got to a swingers club yeah, yeah, they ever seen any high girls in any of these places Yeah, what's it? On the other side with evidence that it wasn't always honest about huge Bet Swim Fight it Beggolepes Bodybuild a girl Just fat. Fat. Where's this working on his fourth slabs? Where's everybody taking their rounds? They were just at a hand and there and there. But it was cool. Then I was like a bunch of them grouped around his wine now. The problem is that all the guys want the hot curl. So the other girls are just laying around and getting nothing, basically. And then it was one of Chicago about being tired. I had a wrestling in it. Really? Yeah, have you do it? Have this one? I think it was, you know, within a little always got it. You know, you can appreciate their pose and shit. Really? Right in the club? White, yeah, white. Oh, they don't want to be a bigoted. They're making it in me. It was white powder substance, right? Around. I'm trying to. Oh, no. I ain't just like a couple of things. Cat is. Cat is. Cat is. You're going to go. We're going to get tired on the next floor. It's a bra. I'm going to get tired on the next floor. I'm going to get tired on the next floor. I'm going to go and experience. I'm going to experience. What? Are you doing? Let's hold this talk. His cat seems to want to participate in this conversation. So we're going to save it for, for, for, I have to go. Actually, I wanted to just introduce one other person. We got the zapped stoners in the studio again. Yeah. He's back. Any any. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. He's back. Where's it going? Good for you. I would, huh. What did you know? What did you bring in for us? I used it for wrapping to. What does it mean? It was pretty good. Will Sam get a smoke this? What is this? Actually, ... What? This is, looks like sitwheel, and kick... Shit for you. Just not. Shit. Hey, this huge drop in water, has a shit's. I was just joking. At this huge drop in water, I didn't expect a shit man to come. Hell no man There's a ringo was wrapped around sushi, maybe. Not bad actually. I got a big story salty man Would say okay Why they called okay can they look okay? Okay? Hell no, I don't know Jelly bean He's a mushrooms He's a psychedelic mushrooms The question these act Of course, I don't know if you don't never met Zach, but Zach does this is this is a stick now everyone who comes on this show Ghosts is here Quite down So See we this guy everyone does this show what comes on this show works at Zach works out But he doesn't he doesn't do training with weights. He does a robust classes. He does Day long you give the guys some more to me We have to take the time I'll stop you to fuck this shit Cuz it feels good Yeah, he does like everyone who do like the step class He's trying to help he does he hangs out in the back I saw him I like the seaweed the seaweed is good. I think I'm tripping on it I also I make some cake I would be surprised with this No, don't touch me. What is that? That was fucking nice hey man. What kind of cake two girls won cupcake Homemade by myself What else you got in my guess I was trained I just had eel in here Are you tripping? Chris you're the expert here. What do you think he's doing? What would you guess the X to see? Milk Bobby amountus. I've fallen to You guys went to swing би style we need that stuff right? All right, you know what? Let's go to commercial break. When we come back, we're gonna have cat. No, exercise, exercise, exercise, exercise. What do you have? Yeah, when I advertise my food, some people... 90's dance dance. Oh, oh, what the fuck is that? Yeah, barge! You see it! He just wants his art. I feel like I'm giving shit. I mean get on hard. Oh my god. Yeah, I don't know. I'm not being. That's enough for that shit. Wait, wait, wait. If you want to. I don't want that yet. All right, we'll be back in two minutes. Fucking damn paws. So show you. All right, but it sounds like a harder ritual myself. Don't know what he'll do for you. Okay, let's go now. You'll know where they're going now.

N quote, You're watching. Mr. Kaye. You're not me. Shit, I've got to break some servers. All right, welcome back from Break. Zach the stone is still here eating. I guess you... How much we did smoke today? Yeah, that was not enough. That ain't smoking. Yes, you did. How much did it? I don't think that's enough. Let's go to our next very special guest. We have a really star-packed show here. We have Chris Quarmear and we have Jimi the Bulls. It luckily graced us with his presence this week. We have to be absent. And we have cat from exercise for better sex. Thank you for coming through the studio. Jeremy found you somewhere in the city through his accountants, brother and lawyer, something like that. And talk to me about what you do. I do fitness for better sex. I've been a trainer for about seven years. And... What do you train people? Right now independently, but I did the whole near sports club, Rribox, but I actually all met Dr. Koo. And now I train with myself independently. And I focus on fitness for better sex because I believe actually, to be honest, having a lot of sex helped me this week. So you believe in sex? So rather than this you believe in functional exercise then? Yes. Also part of the motivation behind it is that I lost a little weight when I started having one of those sex. Now when you saw the new sale a lot of sex, Chris is looking at the nibble that's sticking out of your shirt. So... I'm looking at a breast still. Yeah, help it. No. When you say you've had a... What do you say a lot of sex? What do you define? Because Chris and Jimmy might define that as something different. What would you consider a lot of sex? Oh, gosh. How many times a week? How many times a week? Why not? How many times a week? I'm not asking you how many people you have. I'm not asking you how many times a week. How many times a week? How many times a day? How many times a day? It has changed. I was 31 and I was kind of having weight issues until I was 26 and then I had my big epiphany. And that's when I started having sex. I'll be honest on a daily basis. How many times at one time today? Two times a day? Four times a day. And so times on people were involved. Also you believe in multiple parties then. I don't know if my plan was about. No, I don't know. We have to get back around on you first of all. I didn't spend the whole day. I didn't have a lot of time. Jeremy did a good job. I like to do a lot of research. To be perfectly honest, this down playing against. But I was a big, then-jeer. Like, I used to binge eat every day. It was an uncontrolled until I suddenly became multi-air guys. I was like, start having all kinds of sex. So I did research behind it. There was a big correlation. So you became a being sex person. I don't think I switched addictions. But after about a year or two, you were going crazy at calm down. Okay. Now, let's talk a little bit. You said multi-air gazzmic. Yeah. What would define what that means? Because some of our viewers are not that a versed in sex. I especially like Magnus and the sex. I can't. I can't. I can't. Oh, I don't know. Okay. According to Taoist belief men can be multi-agazmic. Well, obviously, I'm a woman. So it's just, it's kind of like a- Chris, you multi-agazmic. Yeah. I used to shoot a bit harder than that. So you say multi-agaz means you can have, or guys is one after the other. Yeah, you're like a roller coaster. And how many can you have in a row? Like, what was your record? I don't really keep calm, but I realized that once I had about 20, I started to... Detired. Yes. Okay. Now, when you say you've had, you like to do different combinations of people. Like, we talking to women, to guys, three guys, three women. I'm doing the good thing. I've been there everything. And that year and a half, two years. You've done every combination. Swing gloves, pink parties. What? I was just gonna, you know, you read my mind. Chris, you guys are both just doing the right thing. You read my mind. I was just gonna, I was just gonna ask that question. I have, for a few times in my life, but to be perfectly honest, I did not feel better than radio orgasm. That's me personally. It looked, it's, it's, it's more visual. If you think about it, Chris, though, you can do a lot of sheets and stuff like that. Yeah, and then it's how old is it? So, the fuck is wrong with that? My best friends were, she gets the whole bed just like... Oh, really? That we should have brought her out. But let's talk a little bit about our team. I don't know what to shot the face. That's what I just, my, just like the slam shots. That's my dad. Have you ever been shot in the face? Yes, man. I'm so worried. Did you look at all that? No, no, I'm so afraid of my face and she can't really. You're just, trench my whole fucking head. Life is pain. Life is dedication. Life is pressure. Life is p2a. 1a. This is the X-Men Tony Freeman. You're watching our X-Men. She's going to show us a program. She's got a DVD called Fortra, Kill a Workout Killer Roy Guysom. This is available at FortraDvD. It's full of facts. It's full of facts. It's full of facts. It's actually a very good fat burning 30 minute workout. Straight pencil muscle. I do see. Does it tickle a little bit? It's actually a good thing. I'm looking at some of these pictures here and I see girls making out what he chose. Is this part of the whole video? Well, we have Fortra. We've got frequent orgasms. We're very good for weight loss overall health. It's just really workout. I think it's all sex-related. That's the one I'm talking about. That was the main motivation behind anyone getting a shape. What do you believe that? What do you prefer? What's your favorite video? I can't ask a question. I want to see something interesting. I want to know what's in all her experience. What was the favorite stuff you like to do? Well, to be honest, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You kind of worked it all out already. Yes. One out of time? What's the most outrageous thing you ever did? I think we could a lot of judgment. This judgment was freesome. Chris has definitely done worse than you have. You could possibly say it was a trust me. I had sex with a horse. Oh, no. It's not made. No, no. No, no. I've told you that the crazy thing you did. The thing you liked. Oh, my god. I can't believe I did that. I told you about my first sex party experience. I usually see my own party. There's just an equal guy, a real ratio. But in this party, there were more guys. That night, I came into the scene. The lifestyle of saying I had a sentence. 10 guys at one time. I had to say 10 guys at one after the other. And then I did the same thing in one later. Real. I was saying the life you liked it. You liked it now. Yes. But then I got to go. Do you notice that these swing parties at the girls tend to be ugly? I mean, you probably are like a big thing. It's kind of ugly. Oh, the guy is so ugly. No, it's really hit or miss. It's really a risk. You know, because the entrefee is like. I'm going to get a ton of showers. Right. Right. Right. What if you swallow that like mean to swing club? Would you be like, Jimmy, if you don't turn that fucking phone off, you're out of here too. I'm sorry. What are they going to do? I don't even know how to laugh. I'm here. Put it on my best thing. So let me get back to that question. You've got to shut it off now. You're going to face so good to the lady over here. No. What are you hiding down here? Let's get it. Let's get it. What are you looking at? Jimmy breaks about his decision. I've told you that. We try to have them mold it with one of these molding kits called corner willy. He never brought it in. So I'm assuming that he probably does not trust him. He might just had a killer fuck a moment. This guy. That's the girl. I really good question. Probably people want to hear. What if he would start with a fucking willy? I mean, you're fucking. You're fucking. You're not. Fuck willy. You're willy. Can I ask you a question about this? I'm sorry. I didn't make a. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. Because you didn't bring the clean corner willy. Of course I was asking the lady. I was going to get a thing. You're not going to see what I. And you're stuck on my willy. I bet I might. I might. I might. Fuck the shit. I bet. I might get close willy. If I gave Chris the corner willy, can't he would have clothed it? No, I wouldn't did it. Yes, he would have. No. If you don't want to stick. What is he saying? So I'm going to give you the kid. Jeremy would have given you the kid. Chris. You got a sticky thing in it. And you got a mold. Chris would have done. Tom Springs. He would have sold it. He would have done it. I asked the question. I. He did. I know you do it. I would know you would do it. There's a little. She could flop them in the bathroom. What? My video has a finished angle. Just for entertainment purposes. I could. I saw a diamond. I wish I knew you were here. Jeremy would fucking call me because I could have coordinated my body with how we. We could still do. I just thought we were going to do. Guys, here we go. We're going to go to a quick commercial break. When we come back, we're going to have cat demonstrate some of what she does on maybe on you, Jimmy. You can do like the fetish stuff. Chris, maybe. I think I'm sure could time me. Chris, you know, get whatever you like. We can generally. Zach and each Ellie means off for stomach or something like that. We're laughing too much. Thanks for watching. The heavy muscle show. Or more. Rags muscle. Zach. Zach.

Life of the Auric帽 Studios! This is the Heavy帽 show!acho! I don't stay on the wall. Since I hate the black soldiers We should be hogy for them! There's some kani! Should have another way to save! Bergeay! Hi, where's 살� lumière? It's not stopped smiling. Ever since we said that we were going to do some functional exercise. That's very sub-nose. Well, let's see some of the stuff that you do because we did get you in here to see that have this exercise program works. So what do we get? Can you do some of the exercise? What do you get up on the table here? And you can show us a little bit about what you do and what to work out. I'm really long. What do you need to know? What do you need to know? I don't pee at head over there towards Magnus. South. Isn't that South? South. Go South young. How tall are you, Kat? Wow. She's a big girl. I think we're going to do some surgery. Girls are like to be called big. Okay. Chris, do you like that button? No, that's not good. I don't know if I should be quick. Can I just say I'm a big guy? I think you've been a big kid. It's firework's liking my bulls. She's like, I gotta say she taps actually on a very good body. I'm sorry. All right. I've shown it to all of you guys. First of Jeremy, pull that in this off the table. My name is David. He's a state right. He's a state. He's a state. He's a state in the world. You have no idea where he is going on. David, he's he's fjursing writing right now. He's like breastfeeding. Now this is breastfeeding, right? All right. What's that call? The fortune? Yeah, I'm calling it the fortune. Chris, you have perfect thought. I said that. I've got to provide you a job. Show me some more provocative. Now what does that simulate Chris? Oh, love it. You don't know. The earth quick. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Shake it big. There you go. I love the stage. Shake it big. Shake it big. Shake it big. You don't. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. She's such an acai. I would rather see. I think I like the exercise where this two guys involved. I mean, two guys. I mean, two people involved. What? Two guys. I'm just kidding. Get him. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. All right, now. Are you going to write two guys at Taylor? All right. Chris, the other bodybuilding here. Let's get you down in front here. And she's going to show you some exercises that she does with some of her clients. All right. Are you going to tell us where my dog's just protecting him? Chris is going to look into this camera, I guess. And he's going to pretend he's doing what kind of exercise. Some bent over rows. Bend over fly. Bend over fly. She's going to do that with those. Look at the camera. Yeah. That way. Yeah. Chris, the camera's right down. All right. Where's he? I'll be. I figured he'd look this way. No. All right. One year. Till that way. Now Chris shows proper form here. Give us proper form. Bend over rows. Bend over the fly. It's all the form. Yes. Back, back, fly. I'm just trying to get your back here. That Chris is having the exercise more enjoyable. Yeah. And I'm just trying to show the way for the guy to do this. The hammer's just crossed, they get you to train someone like this. I'm going to go. I'm going to try to run 50 now. It's not bad. It's not bad. Chris, would that make it hard for you to concentrate? Oh, yeah. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. One more time. Chris have good gluteal development. Yes. Yes. Chris, you like? That's that. This is Chris. It's pretty much better than you. It's Chris and his best. For slam shots in him and he's doing my job with the hat. With the girl behind the naughty stick work app. But you're not really ready to talk to you. You're going to be a bull. You're going to be a bull. Let's get you down there, I front. Yeah, now. Jimmy's. What's your name? I have exercise. Yeah, and what you say you're going to do with my knickers up by the same time? My stretch. You're all right with the touching nipples? Absolutely. Okay, you like that. Jimmy, the bull is taking his vest off. He's having a lot of trouble with flexibility. Jimmy, be sure you stretch out a little bit. Jimmy, you're very stiff, I notice. You're going to be okay with this, right? All right, go ahead. Go down there. I'm looking at the back of the video. There's a guy laying on the floor. You're going to be able to do like this. You're going to be able to do like this. Are you going to be able to do like this? Are you going to be able to do like this Jimmy? Just lay down, all right? I'm going to show it. Go ahead. I'm going to show it. I'm going to show it. I'm going to show it. All right, Jimmy, the bull about to lay down on the floor. And we don't know exactly what's going to happen to him. But this is another one of cats training exercise. She does with her clients. She has a new butt. And on the butt. On your butt. On your butt. Oh, that's a new thing. Jimmy trains apps. This is, I have to be sure that he's doing this. Oh, no. That's just going to squat on the edge. You're going to want to do like that. Yeah. You're doing like that. Oh. Yes. You're going. You're going to have that. I think you should squat a little lower on. He likes to. He likes to do it up. That's very sexy. If you like the view. Oh, this goes. Oh, this goes. Oh, this goes. Oh, this goes. Oh, yeah. Go on. Come on. And get her with you. Phillips haters go over. Nice going through. dale lif�s a 1996 head down. He Carroll companies a 6K ec. you restaurant. You twice so that you're doing it. It's take out that everyday. I don't think you're pub. No, I ate that everyday. All right. Dave, can I do one. Man, this is Asian lovers who go, no, you can't go. Life is pain. Life is dedication. Life is pressure. Life is V-28. Species of Illusionary Nutrition, the Species Line of Products Champion Original Thinking, and carries them for a process to its larger conclusion in the form of public supplements that strictly alert to the corn nutritional principles of Dave Pulambo, founder of Species Nutrition, visit speciesdutrition.com to purchase the next generation of high quality supplements available today. Therefore, in here to the theory of a control selection consists that will be the Fit Survive Species Nutrition.com. This is the Heavy Muscle Show. With your host, Dave Pulambo. This is Miss Figure Olympia, Aaron Stern, you're listening to rxmuscle.com, the best coverage for bodybuilding, fitness, figure, and bikini on the net. You're going next. Okay, okay, the tab. It's alright. Is that alright? I have a good foot there. Zack is a virgin when it comes to this stuff. He does a lot of exercise classes, so he probably pretty experienced. Give us another good one. You want to do the same move? You want to do some ads? You like to do that, but I'm going to watch that. I lay on Zack. You watch the hell today, right? Alright, alright. Let's go. Pretend you're in a rubber splastack. Pretend you're in a rubber splastack. Zack's going into P going through Puringna. I'm wearing the bucket. That's the one. I'm not going to die. Zack, you take it all day. This guy's going to floor. This is so hard. Hey, you got a wet spot in his pants. What's going on? You like that, Zack? We'll never get rid of him now. He's going to come back every week. Alright, thanks. Alright, Matt, is your next. Are we going to do a different exercise with Matt and this? I placed out this on the movie. My foot's by this move. Lionel Pan. What is this, my friend? What is that? What about you? Oh, yes. All right. Get Matt and get down there. Fix the first one. I know all there. I know. This is very good for training. Fix my body. Jeremy fixed the thing that the black thing there. What are you going to do in this year? How are you going to motivate Matt and this to do this? These thrust things. I'm going to do it. No, no. How do you get it? First, nipples go. He's going to pierce nipple. Can't that happen the last week? Yes. Oh my god. I know what it does. haben held it back. What's going to do is off your legs or shadows on fire. And he came... Thank you! Hi!! Why do you let him right off the pitch? You wanna let he go! I think Matt is going to break. I think Matt is going to break. I think Matt is going to break. What's up? You want to go? Go on. Go on. I think you should just go. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Where is he going? Go on. вход. over. Oh easy. How fun. She's six feet tall, Bob. There we go. Oh, who's with guns hijotesya인데? Ughh. Oh, she put it up. Thats what you're about. Oh, John. Oh yeah this is happy he must've had a showedel ад. No one's forceful like she says. Is this oversight!? Aww. Can't he declutch? Aw. Will he? Watch him! That's fun. Check in box on the book. You're in the fun. No, no, no, no. You're in the fun. You're in the fun. You're in the fun. All right, before we end that, close out the show, I want to just get your feedback on all the guys that you worked at. First of all, who is the most, did you enjoy doing the most? Oh. First of all, we're doing. Doing. Oh, I don't remember what you were doing. What are you doing? What are you doing? The next question on her people's feelings. This question was. I mean, I don't even know what's the press by his strength. Okay, so you like both strength and muscle. It's very impressive with this guys ability. Really? Yeah, and I saw this wing club I would definitely. You would do them. Yeah, totally. Would you do them? Yes. Would you do them? If it's a draw for me, I'm going to do my son. I'm going to do my son. Would Chris, Chris, is a good, well-developed. Oh, yes. I don't think you like that. I will never forget. I'll have good dreams tonight. I'll have a hug. Did you miss the next half of the motor? Ha ha ha ha. Yeah. Oh, my god. Yeah, I said that. Yeah. What about Zag? It was work. It was work. Was that nervous? He looked a little nervous about the motor. She thinks he's right. Yeah, that's the answer. It was great. It was going to be hard. Yeah. They were getting ready. They were hard before I touched that. All right, so 150 bucks an hour. Cat will train you. You have other girls that get involved with the training, too? A online, yes. I'll have an online. I've been an independent trainer, but what I mostly do with my website is Selvedee and then I have a blog that I update pretty much every day and I always have pictures of hot girls. And you do lesbian stuff with them, too, right? Maybe. Yeah. You do go do everything with them. You do like, um, Felicia and stuff like that, too. And my personal life, yes. On video, unfortunately, it's not for me. We go, it's sold and I have a zone. So we go just. It's got you. Just to the point. Which is the point that Amazon won't take you. Um, well, we don't show nipple. Okay, I pretend like I'm going down and continue. I see, so it's like simulated sex. I may or may not have done that in real life, but on the video. So if you met Jimmy in a swing club, you might have another girl and you might have sex with Jimmy on the other girl. Um, yes. Okay. Jimmy, okay with that? Okay. All right. You know, magnets like to end the show by dancing, you know, and the tank is out there. Jeff, you have some good music that would be relevant to this topic we had here today. Let's talk about sex. Oh, my God. I think I'm a dancing. I see. That's it. I'll be dancing. All right, everyone. Dance. I'll play a shot. Chris, we're gonna be a 44th birthday party. Yeah. Potion, I'm setting it. He's gonna be a, the Mr. Levine contest with our, Oh, it's the first show. The ball is gonna be a swing club this Saturday. I would chat in the same. And now this is officially not a virgin anymore. We have a great show on the big journey to catch the DJ. The producer of course, he did it and turned and Zach, the story of next become a dance. We'll see you next week. Thanks for watching the heavy muscle show. One more race muscle. Zack, I will be dancing. I'll be dancing. I'll be dancing.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, there's 30 year in a row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Tuesday, September 15th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Even though it's been a really strange year overall, one of the coolest things about 2020 is been the resurgence of women's bodybuilding. For the first time in years, we'll have women's bodybuilding at the Olympia, and for the first time in her career, Mila Ash will get to compete for the women's Olympia title. After spending the entire first part of our career in women's physique, Mila surprised everyone when she announced her decision to cross over into the bodybuilding realm at the New York Pro that it might have come as even more of a shock when she stepped out there and dominated. But that's how these things go. You have to seize opportunities when they're there, and that's exactly what Mila did. And now that she's less than 16 weeks away from one of the biggest opportunities of her career, it will be fascinating to see if she's ready to answer that call. At different points over the years, I've told some of my clients that the way to do anything is the way to do everything, which is my way of just trying to stress how important it is that I'm the poor, all of their energy and intention into everything they do. So if you see how hard someone like Steve Loris is working from a distance, it kind of lets you know that somewhere along the line, he managed to get the message. A few days ago, there was a video of Steve cranking out a set of T-bar rows floating around social media where you can see how dialed into the details he actually was. He's the perfect example of high level athletes who understand what it means to throw everything they have into perfecting their craft. And when you keep doing that over and over and over again, eventually the results start to speak for themselves. This is the cleanest I've ever been at to 60. These words came directly from defending classical Olympia champ Chris Bonstead, who's trying to put everyone else in the division on notice. So while documented that Chris had been battling a bunch of nagging injuries for the last few years, including some issues with his knee, that limited what he could do in the gym during the last years of Olympia prep. But the fact that Chris is healthy and lean and feeling good about where he is this far out from the O should say a lot about what he can bring to the table this year. Even with a few cards being shuffled at the top of the deck, this year's roster is still completely stacked at the top, which means that Chris repeating his champ is an all-set and stone. But if he shows up at Planet Hollywood looking better than he did last year, I think it's down there impossible that we'll see him get knocked off his throne. Regardless of whether you're a bodybuilder or boxer or something in between, anyone who's ever experienced what it feels like to be in a flow state knows how surreal it is to have everything clicking all at once. But even if you don't know that, you can almost get a sense of what it's like just from watching Puntula Brater. Over the weekend Hunter's team released a clip of their guy knocking at a set of rack poles with 675 pounds for reps, where you can tell from the look on his face that he was operating at a whole different level. Out of all the athletes in this year's Olympia, to me Hunter might be the most fascinating. It's not that I think he's ready to contend for the title. It's more so that the runny's been on this year has been so much fun to watch. So regardless of how this year's contest turns out, the fact that he's come this far, this fast is still fascinating. And it's also proof of what a person can do when they tap into the right head space. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Day for Lumbo here with an RX muscle update, the Chicago Pro, Saturday night finals are out. And we have a new champion, Huntal Abraata. I don't know if a lot of people suspected that Hunter might sneak in there and knock off some of the big names, specifically really winked over who was, I think, the man to beat in this lineup, but Huntal Abraata surely believed it and he delivered all the goods plus some. I had in my prediction video, I said that Hunter was certainly going to be coming back with more muscle on his body. We know he's a consummate professional, like his dad was, conditioning is always spot on. The tan is always there. The presentation is there. He takes care of all the details that he has control over, which is an I always say this. conditioning, presentation, tan. You screw those up, you know what? You didn't do your homework. Lumbrodda does his homework and he did his homework here and you know what? That's what you need to do because we've said it a million times before conditioning wins shows. And conditioning one show here. Lumbrodda's got the tools set in the sense of he's got the structure, he's got the flow to his body. But he also has tremendous conditioning and how do you beat a guy with all those other attributes and the conditioning? And he's got more size than last year. So he came in here and I thought the only person in this line that would have been able to challenge him would have been a Rulli Winkler because Rulli is bigger and you know it really brought the conditioning. I figured that he would be able to you know stand next to Hunter and make them look not as good as we know he is. And what Rulli did was he came in here and he was I personally think he overdidied into this. I think he tried to bring his shape in a little too much, which is always a mistake with guys that are mass monsters because they give up what makes them special, the mass. And that's exactly what Rulli did. He came in here and if you look at the pictures he doesn't even look at that big. Librodda, I think everyone else in the top four, you know it looks bigger than him in this shot. Brett Wilken on the right, Max Charles, Hunter Librodda. I mean, you see a guy like Rulli Winkler get outsized at a show of this caliber. You have to say what's going on here, you know, something didn't go right. And I feel bad for him because he'd been waiting for the whole year after missing the Olympia because of COVID, you know, to come back here and exact retribution to stake his claim on, hey, I got a legitimate shot from Wendy Olympia and he has to sell for fifth place here. And this is a tremendous tremendous, you know, below, I think, to Rulli Winkler. And, you know, it's not anything taken away from him. He just was not the Rulli Winkler that we were used to seeing. But Librodda was everything and more. And I think that that right there alone tells you, you know, hey, you know what, this kid is special. He knows how to pick himself. He knows how to raise himself up for the big shows. And you know what happens when you do that, you win shows. And you know, it's, it's, you know, we always say, you know, we give these quaint little things about how, you know, conditioning win shows. And we say all of these funny things before the show. But the bottom line is at the end of the day, the guys that are in shape at the show do the best. And, you know, Hunter delivered in that sense. And I think that you have to, you know, you have to say that this guy has got to be a legitimate top, you know, six Olympians this year, possibly, because he is consistent. And I mean, if you look at the scorecards, I mean, the scorecard say it all straight first place is for Hunter Librodda, Brett Winkler who finished in the second position. I mean, that has to also be a little bit of a shocker, you know, because who expected Brett Winkler to come in here and be really winkler and beat some of these other guys in the line of it. And that's, we're going to talk about him in a minute, but I'm super, super impressed with what Hunter Librodda did here. And you know what, we all have to take our hat off to him. This guy is the real deal. And at the end of the day, you know, I know his dad has got to be super happy. You know, I love this shot, you know, with his father just kind of believing, you know, what father doesn't want to see this, you know, following their footsteps and be possibly, you know, potentially even have more potential than that. I mean, that would be, you know, as a dad and I know my father probably felt the same. And that's got to be, you know, something special. So, you know, congratulations all of the Broughtas. It was a well deserved victory. And I think he's going to be, I think he's going to be dangerous in the Olympia because of his consistency. And that, and that right there, says it all, because of his consistency, he will be dangerous. And you know what, you, you, you cannot discount, can sit, I mean, everyone always will branch Warren up, right on the Olympia stage. All the time it happened to him. It was like, it was like every year, you know, branch would show up and people would never talk about him. And then he would be up on that stage and be in great shape and be a freak and he would be guys that were just better than him. That's what LeBron is going to do for his whole career until he finally is the man to beat, so to speak, and maybe maybe we'll see him as being Mr. Olympia one year. It is a, it is a, it is a, definitely a possibility. I mean, he's got the, the mind set. He's got the, the, the breeding. Yeah. He's got the genetics. He's got the backing of his dad. I mean, when you have a family that, that is a, is a bodybuilding family. I mean, how much better is going to get to that? I mean, right? Most of us had parents that don't know anything about body, my father's not like the nobody building, you know, I was like, you know, he would tell me, bring home the, the HST, but I want to be a HST. Not that he wasn't supportive. He just didn't understand the sport, you know, and that's the way it goes, you know, and unfortunately, that's a lot of our parents, but, you know, LeBron has got that grooming. It's like the kid who was on the soccer team and his dad was the coach. I mean, he's been playing soccer since his three years old. Brett Wilk and though I got, I got to bring him up because he really, really impressed me a lot. And the reason why I impressed me was because no one expected him to come in here and be as good as he was. And that to me, that's a professional. That's a guy who worked his ass off all year round after the last year and made improvements. Didn't just coast. He made improvements. He's bigger. He's filled in the gaps. Okay, in his physique, he brought tremendous conditioning. You can tell I could see the pain looking his face. He could tell he suffered. And once again, it goes back to conditioning, you know, does well. It's, can this human shows, but it also places you very high, you know, higher than people might expect. And he beat Rueley Winkler. Come on, he beat, he beat a lineup here that was spectacular. And you have to, you know, when a guy can come in and be this dominant. And I don't know where he's going to, you know, wind up down the road, you know, I think he's got a tremendous career ahead of him because I think that he's a hard worker. He loves the sport. You can tell he loves what he's doing as long as he can keep himself healthy. I don't see any reason why we're not going to see him be around for a very long time and be a very dominant competitor. So congratulations to Brett. I mean, it was a tremendous tremendous, you know, accomplishment. And of course, you know, our good friend Max Shawls, you know, Max is another guy that everyone's always writing off. No one talks about. And then he shows up. You know, the reason why Max gets written off a lot and the reason why he does so well all the time is because number one, he's got one of the best upper bodies in, in, in, in pro body. His legs are not his best body part, but they're, they're no longer weak. They're just not a strong body part for him. They balance his upper body is tremendous. I mean, the guy's got the best arm shoulders chest and possibly back, you know, in body and all the, but his weakness, obviously, is because his legs don't necessarily matches upper body. People think he's, he's not as good as he is. But when you get him up there and, and align up, and I'm not, not the Olympia line of course. When you get him up and align up, that's challenging. Okay. Like this show was, but where he brings his best conditioning, which he did. Okay. He's very difficult to be because he's, he's, he can stand with these other guys. Maybe 90, maybe he can't stand with the very, very top three guys in the world because then you see his legs, you know, deficit. But in this line up, he's very, very competitive. And you can make a case for him being in second place here. I wouldn't have a problem. I like Brett Wilkins, but I think Max has got a little bit more free factor going on. So even though it was a unanimous first place, second place, third place, fourth place, I think Max absolutely could have placed higher and no one would have complained. Once again, I think this is a good balance. Look from, I think if he goes any leaner or tries to dry out too much, his legs will get too small. And if he comes in any fuller, he's not going to be hard enough and happy. So this was a good compromise that I think this is a look that Max should look to bring every time he steps on stage because if he does that, he's going to always place well. Once again, it's always good to depend. I was telling people, you know, you can't guarantee places on people. All you can do is guarantee that, you know, all you can do is show up at your best and then see where the cards fall. And if they fall, you know, the right way, if you're then great, you know, I don't know, who knew that, you know, Rulee was going to come and off. You know, everyone probably was thinking, Mom, I'm going to be, you know, whatever. Wherever Rulee is, I'll be below him, you know, because he's probably going to be the guy to be. And he didn't even, and he didn't even place, you know, top four. He was at a self-defense. Now, let's talk about Moshebahn for a minute because I really liked this guy. He's really consistent. He's a guy who's also been improving every year. He's a, he's a sleeper guy. He's a guy you can fall asleep on. And when they first do the callouts, you don't even notice him. He's kind of like, off to the side. And then all of a sudden, the more the guys pose, you start saying, hey, this guy's got really good. It's good. Look at those lower tier drops. Look at the, look at the lack flare. Look at the conditionings. Look at those perfectly boxed abs. He's got, you start noticing the guy's got a lot of gifts. His calves are a little small, but his quads are ridiculous. I mean, they're really impressive. Andy brings good conditioning. And that, and that's a good combination. And I'm going to talk about, Luriz, I say, Andy brings good conditioning because when we talk about Hassan Mashtoffer in a minute, we're going to talk about Freak's active vote. Maybe a guy who's not as conditioned as Moshebahn. You can make a case for him placing his highest second here. I think that those, I think Hunter was a, was a clear cut winner. But I think second, third, fourth, all could have been flip-flop. No one would have complained. It was very close between those three guys. I think Rulley actually was the guy who probably got what he deserved fifth place. And unfortunately, none of us who were bodybuilding fans would want to see that, right? We want to see Rulley winkle a win these shows because Rulley's a freak. No one wants to see Rulley win the Olympium more than I do. And I love Big Ramey. But I want to see Rulley up there, that onion out with Big Ramey because we know that Rulley has the size. Now, I don't know if Rulley, look, my whole thing on Rulley is what I think happened. And I don't know for sure. I don't talk to Rulley on a regular basis. And maybe Rulley doesn't know. Maybe Rulley's got to come back to the drawing board two here. But what happened, when I think happened with Rulley winkle a win, was that he wanted to come in so freaky hard for this show. Because he wanted to show everyone, hey, look, I'm going to beat Ramey. If you Olympia, I could bring the freaky conditioning and he made him a state. And I'm going to tell you why I'm going to mistake because I just happened to me in my career. And I've seen it happen to other guys. They tell you look, come and shred it and you're going to win every shooting. When the show, you know, when the Arnold, you're going to win the Olympia because that's what we want. We want to see you shred it. But what they don't understand is that, and what maybe the mistake of competitors make in the coaches that help is that sometimes ultra shredded dry, okay, too much so you can overdo it. And then what happens is you lose the wow factor. Okay, and I've seen this happen throughout Rulley's career. Remember when he used to work with grandma, the coach he had originally, she made this mistake a few times as soon as him too. She brought him in great once and then she brought him in too. Then they were trying to get him too hard and he was looking small and small. And when Rulley's smaller, you see his flaws. You see, hey, you know what his waist isn't that really, that's small to a little big. It would be like a Jay-Color, okay, who also did not have a small waist, but he had ridiculously wide shoulders and cap delts. And so as long as he came in full, the V tape was insane. Rulley's got a great V tape when he's full and big around. But he overdited here, I think, and he probably overdited a little bit and dehydrated too much and his legs look small, okay, and his upper body lost some pop to it. And even the, like his side tries to, when he put that arm down, he just didn't even hit a pose, he's just a lock his arm down. He should be blowing everyone off the stage. And I got newsfield, a lot of beat him easily in that side tries to pose. So Rulley made, I wouldn't call it an amateur mistake. He made a mistake because of the fact that he was out of the game for a year and then he wanted to come back and be the best he can be. He's very dangerous. Don't write Rulley Winkler off. We'll see him probably in two weeks in Tampa. I hope we do at least. And he's going to come in full and bigger. Hopefully he won't overdisshoot the other direction and he's going to be very dangerous, okay, because he doesn't have a lot of muscle in. He has a lot of fullness. Probably tomorrow morning when he wakes up after eating for two days, he's probably going to look like 30 pounds big and everything is right now. He might even weigh 30 pounds more and look just as hard. And once again, that was a mistake. I don't blame anyone. It's very easy to fall prey to that, especially when you hear every single person in the press and all of the judges say, just come in harder. Just come in a little harder. That would everyone always says, just come in a little hard. Just coming in a little harder is not the solution sometimes because sometimes you want to overdo it. And that's what happened with Rulley. Let's talk about Hassan Mastoff who finishes in six here. I want to bring him up because normally I would even go past six, but you know what? So I'm doing a, I'm spending some time doing this analysis. I want to do it right. He's one of the freaky skies in all bodybuilding. This guy has got some tool set. I mean, this guy's got the freakyest freakyest of legs. He's got great arms. He's got great lads. He's got a good taper. He's a little narrow shoulder wise, almost like a fill Heath narrow. But he's so big that it doesn't matter. But the problem with the physique like that is you don't come in ultra dry and healed. You start to look a little boxy and you start seeing his flaws. And the flaws are that he's not showing enough detail in his body. Now, he's been doing a lot of shows this year. And I don't know if his body is just burnt out. Sometimes you get to a point where you can eat zero calories in that loser pounds. Because your body is just rebelling from what it's doing. So, I don't want Chris the Cedar tells me that's not the case. Chris works on him. But I just don't think his body is responding anymore. I know we want to get to the Olympia. That's his goal. And the guy's that one of the nicest guys you'll ever meet. He's a hard worker. I think he's got one of those metabolism's way you. His body just wants to build muscle. It's obvious. I mean, because the biggest guy up there, you know, height persporext, whatever. However, he's got to do whatever it takes to lose that extra weight. I don't know if it means eating less food. Okay. We're doing more cardio. I'm sure he's being pushed to the max already. But something is not working. Okay. His body is holding onto something. I don't know what the problem is if it's a metabolic situation or if he's once again a vis-vodity just in kind of a rebellious stage. Or if he just maybe just hasn't been doing this this long. Maybe his body just not that mature. Some guys at 125 pounds can get you shake, you know, and show a lot of muscle separations of it. Other guys, they can be training for a long period of time. I mean, a short period of time have a lot of muscle, but they don't really show a lot of detail. Rammy didn't show a lot of detail in early in his career. He was a little tired of this, but not much. But Rammy's structure was so big that he was imposing. So Hassan Mustafa's got to spend time and get that formula down. And just I think more and more training is just going to lead to better muscle maturity and hopefully over the next couple of years, the key Williams had the same problem. You could feed the guy like a bikini competitor. He wouldn't lose weight. And so I think once he finally gets to form that he's going to be super dangerous. You know, looking at the show as a whole, I think you have to be very happy as a body belief fan that the Chicago pro is a success. And the reason why it was a success was because you had a top five, top six guys and Zach Merkel looked great in seven two. I'll talk about him on the radio show on heavy muscle radio Monday night. But this was a really good lineup. With good competitors, most of them in very, very good shape. It was a tough battle. I'm sure it was not an easy decision for the judges. Yes, LeBraude did enough to win for sure. But the rest of the play sings will kind of tough and where do you put really went learn? When they first call these guys out, it was really hunt. Right? I mean, that's where every, you know, and then these other guys work their way up when the judges realized that really was not it is best. That's an exciting show. I've gone to lots and lots about it. I'm going to show them. You're not that many in the last year and have since COVID, but I bet to a lot of shows. And I'm telling you the ones where it's this close are the ones you want to go to. Did the most exciting, especially when you're in the crowd. And you can feel that everyone's screaming and these guys are up there for a long time because the judges are making them work because they can't really determine what the places are because everyone has a slightly different look to them. But that's why it's important that you bring your best to the stage. And once again, Huntal Abraude, the reason he's so good, tan presentation, conditioning. Dexter Jackson fits into dichotogory, Phil Heath fits into dichotogory. And it's a commitment professionals that always hit the mark. When the, when the, when the, especially when the mistakes were the highest, they always show up in shape. They always have good presentation. They always have a good tan. They never leave anything to, to chance. Those are the guys who always do well. And that's why Huntal Abraude is going to be a great pro for many years to come because he has that mentality. And, you know, you, you, you, you've got to do, you know. But if you don't have it, you can still get it. But you cannot let those variables just fall with a name. That's the only variables you have total control over heading into a show. Huntal, congratulations on the huge win. Congratulations to all the guys in the show. It was a tremendous show to him, Gardna. Great job. Once again. And I'm glad we're seeing some great competition leading up to the Arnold and the Olympia. And now they're on day full on boat with an RX muscle news update.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry with a low-carve cocktail. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning on day of car motor today. I've never had someone send you a text that makes you do a double take because you're not sure if you read it right. And then when you read it again you realize that you did read it right. So you just think, well they must have made a typo. Well that's what I did earlier today when someone texted me in videos up on Delabrada. Because since he won the Chicago Pro two weeks ago, he's allegedly already up 12 pounds on his rebound. We're going to hear the plan from Hunter's team is for him to push the food and the training hard for the next three weeks to see what his body does before. They start the back-off and gear things up for his Olympia prep between winning Chicago and finishing eighth and his Olympia debut last year. The bar already seems and possibly high heading into this year's show. Considering that he's pretty much shattered expectations over and over again and proving him on that eighth place slot might not be as crazy as you think. With things that the Tampa Pro set the kick off less than 48 hours from now, I've had a lot of people reaching out to me over the last few days to ask who I see as the favorite heading into the men's open. And to be honest, I'm not sure where I'm at with that yet. But I will say this, people might want to start thinking about Max Charles as a potential dark horse here. Max looked great two weeks ago in Chicago where he finished third behind Hunter La Brada and Brett Welkin. And truth be told, that's probably the best that Max has been since he placed third at the Chicago Pro last year. So now that he's had a few more days to tighten things up, it wouldn't be the biggest shock in the world. It became in with one of those vintage, max Charles performances and ended up walking out of there with the victory. Up to this point, I don't think we've talked about any of the athletes on the women's bodybuilding lineup for Tampa yet. So I figured this would be the perfect time to float a name out there for you to keep an eye on. Jada Beverly, she's moving up from women's physique, making her bodybuilding debut. And when we talked to her earlier this week, she told us that the combination of two knee surgeries during the off season and making the move up to bodybuilding made this the most challenging prep of her career. But she and her team believed that they have a real shock to make an impact in this lineup. It's been a really interesting year in women's bodybuilding so far in terms of who we've seen step up and make a name for themselves. So if we see that trend continue here in Tampa, she can easily end up being the next in line. I know that we're still a few weeks away from needing to dive deep into the Arnold Classic coverage, but what Brian Jones has been doing lately is too good not to share. Earlier this week, a source set me these behind the scenes videos of Brian training back and buys. And as far as I can tell, it looks like we might need to start mentioning his name in the conversations about potential winners there. For a lot of people, I think this fifth place finished at the Olympia last year was somewhat of a revelation, but at this point I think it should be pre obvious that it wasn't a flu. This guy is the real deal in every sense of the word and it keeps improving at this rate what we're seeing now won't even compare to what we could end up seeing a few years down the road. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. And they pull on the O'Remining you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

There's no way not to get a dip. If you're at a thousand milligrams of testosterone, you're taking injecting a week, and your testosterone on blood work is like 3000 total testosterone. And then you go off the cycle, even if your body went back to producing its own natural production at maximum value, which would be 800, you're still gonna feel low. How could you not feel low going from 3000 total testosterone to 800? And most guys are going from 3000 down to 2020, because their bodies just don't turn back on right away. Obviously doing the right post-cycle therapy, of course, 2000 units of H-C-G, every two or three days, for two or three weeks, and then doing some clomin. I keep guys on test-alize the entire time that they're off, the balance to DHG, estrogen, and testosterone levels, that helps a lot as well. But you have to understand, you're not gonna be at that super high value that you are when you're on a cycle, it's impossible. And even if you were at max natural levels, it still would feel too low for you, because you're just taking away the sensitivity. I mean, you can't over-stimulate those receptors like you would do it. Now, having said that, when I would go off cycle, my sex tribut would not be as crazy as it was when I was on. But it never was to the point where I couldn't function, because I think a lot of guys that's psychological too, they're like, well, you know, oh, I feel different, and then they start thinking about it too much, and before you know it, they've taught themselves out of being able to have sex, because there is a psychological component too. And I understand when you're going from injecting every other day, a whole bunch of stuff, and now you're not doing anything, you think that you should sex tribut should drop. The funny thing is the first three or four weeks, you still have a lot in your system, so you shouldn't have a low-sex tribut at all, for at least three or four weeks, until you hit that month-more, then you might have a little drop. And then usually guys don't only stay up for eight weeks anyway, so I mean, what are we talking about? We're talking about four weeks of being a little low. Come on, I mean, I think guys are crying babies about it to be honest with you.

Day Palomo here with an RX muscle news update. Well I just got done. I had my colonoscopy today. Yep, my first one. I'm 52 years old and I figured that it was time to do it. You know, I don't have a history of colon cancer in my family, but I do have a cancer in my family. My father did have polyps, you know, throughout the years and his colonoscopy. My sister did too, so I figured out I better go as well. But as you know, I am a big advocate or a fiber. I've been taking it for 25 years. I producing my own product from species nutrition, fiber lies for the last 10 years. And I'm also a big believer in, you know, in vegetables and you diet. I'm all so I'm a pretty healthy eater. Everyone knows me as the McDonald's guy, but you know, even when I was at my biggest and I was eating McDonald's every day, the other nine or 10 meals a day were really clean and helping, you know, eating, you know, good quality fats, high quality protein. I never ate a lot of sugars at all of my diet. That was, you know, very, very infrequently. And I used to fiber supplement. I would say probably the second half of my body, but I didn't really know about fiber before that. But that was not what I was in my 20s. So, you know, when you're in 20s, you get away with doing stuff, you shouldn't be doing one. I was using fiber every day. I still always had a silly and supplement in my diet. It wasn't as effective obviously as when I finally perfected my fiber lies probably, but, you know, I didn't really need the fiber lies like that all there anyway. Because when I was making it older, what happens is the, you know, the colon, which is a muscle gets weaker and it loses its ability to move waste through itself efficiently. I'm just like any muscle that doesn't get worked. But fiber is like the personal trainer I've said is before of the colon. It makes the colon work harder and it builds up the muscle to the colon. And that's what we want on a regular basis. So, I was pretty confident going into this colonoscopy that there was going to be nothing wrong. Obviously, if there was, I would have been, you know, I would have felt like, well, you know, either my genetics failed me or maybe I don't know what I'm talking about as far as, you know, eating a high fiber diet, especially if you're eating a lot of food and a high protein diet. So, I went in there with a pretty open mind. I'll tell you the process itself was probably the leading up to the colonoscopy is the worst part of it. And it's really not that bad. It's one day of no eating solid foods. So I went to the supermarket that day and I went and bought a bunch of stuff, which I kind of was a little under-prepared, but you know what, it wasn't at the end, it wasn't bad. And they gave you this big gallon jug that go lightly, which I think you got a mix with something, you know, that you like the taste of. And it can't be anything like with it, like cherry flavor because they don't want anything with like artificial colors that could I guess maybe skew the colonoscopy. So I went and I got, they have the gatoried lights. I didn't want to get the ones of zero calories because I did need some colloquilodes. So there were the ones with like low sugar. So I bought four liters of it and I, the four liters fit perfectly in this big jug. And you got to drink this four liters. So the way they set it up to you is you start the day off, you're just eating clear liquids. I bought some bone broth, actually, which was really good. I, disgusting as this may sound, I was drinking it. I wasn't even warming it up, I wasn't even heating it up, I was just drinking it right out of the container like it was like a protein shake or something like that. And bone broth is okay because it's clear, anything clear liquid you can have. You can't have like protein shakes or anything with dairy and it, that's considered food. So I was drinking that, they let you have Gella, I was getting, I got the sugar-free Gella pre-made. I was eating those things. I was going to have more of those because that was the only thing that really was to felt solid, you know, dissolves once you, once you chew it up. That was the only thing that actually gave me a feeling of satiety. All the others of which is liquid. I bought some grape juice, so I was drinking a little bit of coffee or a lot of the half. So I had a, I had a cup of coffee or two cups of coffee, I think throughout the day. That definitely helped a lot. And what happens is that for a PM, they want you to start drinking this, this concoction mixture. And what it basically is deluxe it, it makes you go to poop, okay. Now, I knew that I wasn't going to poop as much as other people as far as the waste coming out of me goes because I know that I'm pretty clean anyway because I do so much fiber on a regular basis. I knew I didn't have a lot of impacted fecal matter which makes it worse for people. Because when people have that, they get a lot of cramping, it's numsy, it nauseous, they throw up. And that's just the way it goes. But so I decided to drink and they said, you got to drink an 8 ounce glass every 15 minutes for 2 hours. So you got to get through 2 liters in 2 hours. So I made it with steak for as I, I poured it into a shaker cup. I thought it was 8 ounce, but it was actually 6. So I gulped down 16 ounces right off the bat. Okay. So I got a little bit, I got a little, you know, queasy from that after that. But it didn't, nothing, I didn't throw up or anything like that. I just, I think was too much at one time. I think about it maybe an hour after I started taking, that's when I started going to the bathroom. And then you, you just moving your balance, like watery, it's become, it's like diarrhea, almost you come and add you initially. I know this is a great conversation with him. But for a lot of you out there, you never did the process. I want to give you with the process was. I, people actually had his that stuff taste in the container. I said, I don't know, I never tasted it. And they mean what do you mean? Because what I would do is I would put 8 ounces and I'd go, whoop, go up it down like I was drinking a fiber shake. The only thing I tasted was the after tasted of the Gatorade. That was that I never, there was nothing disgusting about it. I know people have trouble drinking it. I can pour anything down my throat. It doesn't matter to me. I'm used to drinking pound and protein shakes all day long. So I did that every 15 minutes. I got through the first two liters. No problem whatsoever. Didn't feel fantastic. I was really hungry though, too. Well, that was, that was probably the hardest thing I couldn't eat anything. So I was, I started going through the bathroom pretty regularly around after that two hours of doing that. I was in my house when my kids and I was going to the bathroom. Once again, it wasn't, it wasn't cramp in, it wasn't terrible. Yeah, you might have to clean the toilet bowl or after you've done it because it's diarrhea, essentially. And then it kind of calmed down a little bit. I was only going like every maybe once an hour or something like that. And then you don't do the second half of a total 10 o'clock at night. So I went and put my kids to bed. I fell asleep and I actually fell asleep with my daughter. I was on my door as floor. When I got up, I had already missed a half hour. So I was supposed to start at 10. I was like 10, almost 11 o'clock. So I got to get this, I got to down these two liters in the next hour or, you know, so I started doing eight ounces of 16 ounces at a time to catch up, so to speak. And while I was answering emails by the time that 1230 came around, I had finished the other two liters. No big deal. At that point, when I was going to the bathroom every 15, 20 minutes, it was only just water coming out of it. There was nothing, there was no like poop sitting more. It was just water. And I guess at that point I knew I was clean, but I was still going. I went to bed around 230 at night. I had to get up at, I think I got up at 545, because that was an hour drive to where I had to go do it. I drove over there. My mother and I drove me there. Went in. It was no big, I didn't have the hospital actually. Some people can do it in an outpatient clinic. It doesn't really matter. Yeah, they hook up to an IV. They give you an S-K-Million questions, whatever. And then they roll you in there. And it's not a big deal. I guess it seems more of a big deal just because they're putting you out. You're getting anesthesia. But it's like a proper full IV. It's not breathing tubes or anything like that. So the lenient on your side, you land your left side. And they're like, all right, you're going to go to sleep now and then they push this thing into your IV. She's like, how do you feel? How do you feel? I'm going to sleep. I know that. Every the light side to go out. Next day, I know I woke up and recovered. They came to the doctor, came and saw him and he's like, well, you have nothing in there. You said, you're at the cleanest call and I've seen in probably the last five years. So that made me feel good. I said, you know what? Vindication. He's obviously, you know, either healthy diet. I said, well, I do. I told my wife, I used my own fiber supplement that I make and I've been using a fiber supplement for 20 years and he's like, they work. He's like, I tell all my patients that and you know, but not everyone listens and not everyone's as this. But the key is just do it regularly twice a day. And it just goes to show you that, you know, if you do a fiber supplement and you take care of your body, you know, you know, junk food all day long, okay? You can have a very healthy colon. Now why is that? Because what happens is when the waste moves through officially through your colon, your colon is strong, okay? The immune system in that area is very, very vibrant. In other words, it can eat up anything that happens. So if you grow a little cell, start growing out of control, which we call polyps, your body just eats them up. In other people that have a lot of stagnation in that area, the immune system is not functioning well and a polyps start growing and it keeps growing. And until you get in there with a scope and then clip it out. Most people when they get colonoscopy, the lot of people get that polyps clip down to they have in there. And that's that to say, I can't grow caught polyps, but I think if your immune system is healthy in there, if you're growing cells that shouldn't be there, your immune system will eat them up. Likewise, if you grow cancer cells produced in there, your body's immune system will go up them up if there is stagnation there. And you have a predisposition genetically for colon cancer. It might not do that. So the bottom line is it's important to get a colonoscopy at least at 50 years old. 40 years old, if you have a family cancer, cancer, colon cancer that is. Use a fiber supplement every day twice a day. And you never have to worry. It's going to at least if you have a disposition for it, we'll reduce your chances of getting it. That's for sure. The fact that he said to me and I didn't elicit this response, I didn't say, hey, how did you compare me to? He said to me voluntarily, it's the cleanest column I've seen in terms of no polyps and nothing growing in there. That to me was validation that what I'm telling people and what I'm telling you guys that their works and that it's something good. And when I explain to him what I do, he just kept saying yes, yes, yes, yes. You know, and so this is a guy who that's only does for living is scope colon. And he knows, you know, the people who don't eat right, the people who smoke and drink a too much, he sees the damage that's getting done that. He sees the people who don't exercise. And he sees the people who eat a bad diet. What it does to that area. And if you guys don't care, then they don't take care of yourself. But I know most of the people who are watching this do care about their health. And they don't want to get colon cancer. They don't want to polyps grown in there. So guys, fiber supplement, don't have to use mine. Okay. I'm not, this is not a fiber-lies edge. Okay, what this is is it's a health notification to you guys that number one get your colonoscopy. There's nothing to be afraid of. It's not a big deal. It's the test. You want to know how long the test took 12 minutes? The preparation, it was a whole day up to that. And when I was getting in and out of the hospital, everything like that was took me a long time. Most people are going to get it done in the clinic. 12 minutes was the test. Okay. It's the best sleep you'll ever get. Okay, they gave you. I was a little groggy, you know, the rest of the edge took a nap. I fell asleep on my couch here. But now I feel great. Okay. So, don't fear it. Okay, there's nothing to fear. If you guys can do a contest dive for 16 weeks, you can do a one-day prep of no eating any solid foods. It's not a big deal. I gave you the whole routine. I gave you the whole, that's it. There's nothing else to it. And don't be afraid to find out the unknown. A lot of times the unknown is nothing. I was a little nervous. I was like, you know what, I'm always talking about cold health and everything like that. What if I get, what if I have pops like, God, if I have, I didn't think I will not even allow that the cancer word in my vocabulary. Because I will not let it in my life. I believe that there's a psychological component to that. A emotional component that's not into my wheelhouse. But I didn't know if I was going to have pops or not because I think, well, you know, running my family, you know, I have some logistics to my dad, but my dad smoked and he drank and he didn't eat right, you know, the latter part of his life. So, that's what happens. He didn't take my dad to take a fiber supplement. I used to drop that stuff off at his house all the time. He would use it once and never use it again. So, you got to make a party or daily ritual. You brush your teeth twice a day, you take your fiber twice a day. And that's all there is to it. And don't think about it. Don't let yourself run out. Don't get lazy with it. Just add it to your repertoire. If you saw my rituals that I have to do every day, all the different little super silly things and vitamins to take and this and that, as you get all the ad more and more because you're fighting father time, you know, in aging. But you got to do that if you want to live a healthy life. And I don't know if I'm going to extend the length of my life. But I do know that whatever my life span is, I want to live a healthy lifespan. I want to be vibrant and healthy until the day I leave this mortal coil, so to speak, as Shakespeare would say. So guys, the take on message, go get your colonoscis. If you're over the age of 50, if it's in your family, over the age of 40, get yourself your first colonoscis, I don't have to go back for 10 years now. So he says, you're good. And that, that to me is, hey, I'll do a colonoscis every 10 years. I don't have a problem with that. And I'm sure most of you guys wouldn't need it. So get those colonoscis and get on your fiber supplement twice a day, silly and based. I recommend the fiber lies for you guys. I'm telling you, once you use it, you'll never stop. I'm day polumbar with an RX muscle news update.

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lomble Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents every muscle Leo Watch us Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio I'm the palombo I'm joined as always By the technician Chris Asito on this July 23 2018 afternoon at Chris Let's get to the first The story I wanted to bring up right away Which is The first of what I'm doing I'm doing good I'm on my You hear my chair Yeah you're squeaking You're palming keys in the background You're on my squeaky chair And I told you I'm having a midlife crisis But I'm trying to take a day and a job Right? Follow a good depression So yeah at least Some good like at least your buying stuff That's good I like that Well my wife told me today That my 14 year old Will only do with us another four years And I said But where's he going? Because it didn't dawn on me That he's Chris That Chris me I can do whatever Yeah Yeah It never leave it It's crazy when you think about it You know I mean already We've been in 18 I know it's not this little kids in your mind That's why Yeah you know 100% right So I I had two stories to tell you And then I wanted to comment on What we've seen before you said that your kids were Believing the house and I was having a midlife crisis No You know I said In context to that Before the show started I never look at single family homes In this town I just thought I went to a single family homes A sit selling for And I saw my friend Who died of a heart attack suddenly A 51 years old So you know he died Like two months ago And here's my wife It just asked me what's happening with this house Who's living there maybe His wife's living there And there it is up to the It's under contract actually Wow You got a pair of balls I'll tell you that much Because when you buy properties You got mortgages It's a lot of pressure Everything's pressure Yeah I like this kind of Some of the dads not doing well I kind of mentioned last week But he's He's on his last legs Unforgusting a lot of people Fine I sound has a pretty You know good following On our ex muscle everyone seems to You know I'm a pole colon might be his number one Fan I think he set them up something in the mail I could get well letter But everyone seems to like my dad Stories and unfortunately they may not be around for very much longer But he's we moved into a hospice now Which is really it's a nice place But obviously you know you got a hospice to die And I don't know how much longer my dad's got But his body's kind of shutting down That hit per placement he had just had We have to be broke his leg You know just his body just didn't recover from it He's got an infection And something treated right it's just not Doing responding well he's not eating enough And he's just not going He's going to know so I'm like given him like these talks like dad You know and he's not really that cogear He's not that he's conscious But he's really you know I had a whack that of his mind But you know like that you know you don't need to fight anymore You know just you know just surrender and just you know whatever happens Happens and Because you know he said does he know he's like at that stage What would I just he's talking about I don't know if he knows what I'm talking about I'm kind of hinting around him But I'm like thinking I'm like having these very deep conversations I'm kind of it's usually uncomfortable but I feel comfortable because I don't think he was really He's not he's not South London because if the normal South I'm like I don't want to hit his this spiritual crap You know but he's he's he's open hearing now But I'll be like you know he's telling me these people all these people You know chasing me and they won't leave me alone on in my dreams I'm like who are they? He goes they're not alive They're all dead people that I know I said well you know what does that mean? What do you think of me because I don't know maybe I'm dying I said I said you were peace with that I said or you scared you know he's like ah I'm at peace with it And today you know and they moving this house was something I was always less like someone he's like He's he's talking like his father and he's got these kinds of like recipe voice and He says No way I said no way why he goes I ain't giving up or you didn't say ain't because My dad's just over he said I'm not giving up I said I said alright Well, that's you know it's a good attitude I said now he's like forcing you know hold he's like give me that Chocolate shake you know he's like drinking now he's drinking these ensures They have like a refrigerator full of ensure there no one in the place will drink one of them like they everyone thinks to discuss to my dad I think it's like chocolate milk. He's like that's the only thing I'll eat But you know they got a lot of protein even though it's crap in there It's there is protein on there. So he's living on these ensures And you know it's he's coming down to the wire here. I wrote a piss I wrote a poem While I was sitting there all day today It is room I asked I put a no a quest to sell to write a poem for me, but go ahead I wrote a poem about his life. It's called death. It's him talking to death basically and I read it to him and I acted it out like my father would do it And I actually saw it I I don't even know if he's actually if anything's registering I actually saw a tear in his eye And so after the poem I said to him I said I'm thinking all right, well, he's I moved emotionally right if he's got a tear in his eye Like what do you think dad? He's like not bad He's still he's still well then. Yeah, he still got a sense of humor about it. So I've you know, I don't know Like I said, I don't know how much longer he's got some going there every day just because I don't know how much longer he's got And you know we'll see what I will put the sample is out. I'll tell you one thing that those those Hospice places are unbelievable they set up that got there Wow Talking about dying and dignity you know, you give you whatever you want I actually brought my bottle my dad about a bottle wine Unfortunately, I'm the only one drinking it because I need it while there to deal with what's going on But that you want to sip a wine you take two ships Normally you would have down the whole bottle or One is one guy that I was I see all these walking around with an IV and his arm I don't know what's wrong with my he probably would tell me if I asked him but I really don't I find like I don't like to like ask People with the personal problems, but I guess if you're there dying and then when really you don't really care He's like asking me for cigarettes He's probably got like a lung cancer or something but the guy he's like yeah, these nicotine More addictive than any other drug in this world I said yeah luckily never got addicted to that I said so that's where I've been spending my days writing poems That by my father's death bed I'll read the poem after I followed dies I'll read the poem on the ear But I'm like a do before that Yeah, it's I always love the poem Do not go gently into that good night Which was a Tom that I don't even know movies do it was going on I don't know what's on Netflix alone, but I can appreciate it I'm pretty happy you read that school you weren't home schooled way No, but I told you I made it through high school and clicked on something So I would have read that poem and like like it would have been like a game show I could have named that tune I would have read that poem in like three lines It was like 30 lines Dylan Thomas who was I think my but I think my father told me was a I was morphing that I did some like that wrote a poem of two shat You wrote it that poem was dad was dying And he basically was like you know do not go gently to that good night It was rage rage against the dying of light everyone knows it's kind of that's very common Lines from the poem He was basically telling us why don't you know don't give up the fight basically So I wrote my dad a poem symbol to that except he was my dad is art is basically You know telling off death you know in the poem And that's what that was the poem I thought it was I thought it was well done So and I did it pretty quickly it was it was inspired So I'm in it when my dad dies God willing at least we got another couple weeks I'll read the poem I'll get that all and I'll act it out the way I did it for my dad And then if you tell me not bad then I know I know I did a good job I know I did a good job So anyway so it changed a subject to a more positive note As you know you know I've been on this rampage to try to get Heidi Schouppen into the US to compete at the Olympia Yeah, I've been called everyone I know And it happened That's what everyone says No because I I was told when when when I go ahead I'll tell you I happen to let be a story when someone couldn't get into the country I went to my son at an academy and didn't go well Right well I called him in a lie who is friends with Roger Stone Who has a book drop He's getting ready to be a diet and put go ahead Right but he's he's he's a bodybuilding fishing house that I don't know if there if What I try to do is I try to get and if anyone out there knows how to shoot and personally and Yeah, we're trying to get hot and shoot but I it's the guy is hard to get in touch with I can't get in touch with him I called King Kmolling King Kmolling is not really answering me So I don't know if he has access to this guy either I'm like look, have him calling me and let them arrange whatever they got to arrange And then I had another person contact me From what we said the last week and then basically said that there's there's They know a lawyer Who does this kind of stuff There's high you know there's there are exceptions to get people for exceptional people to get them into the country, you know for like this As long as he wasn't you know arrested or something like that or anything I guess he needs a sponsor here someone to sponsor him so I think I say Chris the seat of the sponsor Chris the photomuffin is that actually honey honey Rambot who does this I should be a sponsor We reached out to him to honey never got back to us I think he's mad because the whole Jeremy point to you thing That's that's I'm from I said reached out to my did personally and I'll try this week To reach out to anyway so my friend Chris met from who's you know formally from Australia now lives in Vegas Send me sent me a it's wasn't a serious Facebook He said how do you people will never be at the Olympia and then he sent me to screenshot from Donald Trump's Instagram And it basically says to Iranian president Rouhani never ever threatened the United States again Or you will suffer consequences the likes of which few throughout history we have ever suffered before We are no longer a country that will stand for your demanded words of violence and death be cautious Who's that? Who's that mess? Trump wrote that on his Instagram The real Donald Trump Chris through it wrote he's honey honey, honey, stupid will never When we first talked about it, that's what I said, who do I say would never you know because of who? Trump yeah, Trump it's Trump's policy. I mean that's the reason why you can't get it together Yeah, so it's you know it's aggressive policy I mean aggressive meaning there's like no exceptions you watch I went when when my soon but Callified for the Olympia I don't know what year was 2012 202 I went to see Susan Collins my senator I've met her a couple times You know she's got an office in town. I made it in Poivin when I figured oh you know great I'll be able to you know it's a small state you know You know she has no problem She has she has she has she has you know she's a senator she has more club than like a mayor or or you know You know Bargist dome And she said this you know she looked into it some of you letters and you know after you know Ex Further you know blah blah blah blah blah blah you know like there's nothing I can do at this time Well, but there wasn't a year rested though, but well, yeah, it was it was arrested on it after yeah, he was arrested for on like no charges of no charges Right, but you know what sort of thing look like a trouble maker these guys no one's going to get involved with you know Well, everyone was brown looks like a trouble maker to Trump so You know the ultimate the ultimate like story would be like we get hiding stupid and then it causes problems That Everyone will think Everybody Calling for the Our lives No, no something simple After all this right the drama. Yeah, Mrs. the meeting you know Yeah, Mrs. the the athletes meeting So so Trump allows them in but you know Robin and Steve don't allow them in because he's towards late for the meeting Yeah, they go to be Thompson's gone right decides he doesn't want to go to the trade show Boy, boy, we had a busy weekend in the amateur division. We had a little bit of pro action But let's we'll talk about the amateur risk because this is a this is one of the biggest shows You know, it's funny the NBC master's teen collegiate That's exactly what you're going to do Go ahead. I think there was 1,400 people in the show That's so I knew you're going to say that that's incredible It's unbelievable you know, I want to open my mouth I don't want to get in trouble for it. So who's ever watching you know who runs you know the powers that they and we know who they are Don't get mad at me for saying this because I have to just say it for us because it's it's a little bothersome I think that the application fees for these shows these national level shows is too high Okay, I'm not going to go crazy on them because I understand the concept when we were competing it was What we wanted to cost to do a national level show was it even I don't even know for was a hundred I don't know it's gone up like five or ten bucks a year for the like last 20 years They're too high shouldn't be you know whatever it was I think it was 250 at the show or two seventy five and you know the nationals like 350 and USA is three three Five for applications why does it cost so much to enter these shows? They got enough people now to justify not having to charge them much because they'll still make their money and I understand that it's very expensive to run these shows Okay, the venue and hotel that whatever they get you get a fly of the judges And it's now that they have multiple day shows you have to rent the venue for you know extra days and I understand all that But there's a not when you have 1400 people okay if they all pay at 150 dollars you'd still make a lot of money Right, I mean the stole a ton of money really made it's still over 200 grand right there So There's no reason to charge that much money. I really feel that it's not fairly athletes these I work with a lot of these guys. They don't have any money. They're like you know this is this and they're and then they get a few multiple classes I have guys that doing they're doing classic and they're doing open and masters and three different masters divisions because they have they have an age category 35 45 How about if you pay once you can do multiple divisions or maybe make an extra $50 It's it's too expensive. All right, having said that the shows I want to I'm going to put that the rest because I don't like I said I'm not looking to get in trouble I'm not looking at the start trouble. I just think consider it consider lowering the application fees Okay, now that we have so many people competing. It's you know what you'll get even more people competing. You'll probably still make the same money All right, I said it now let's move on to the show because the show is a terrific show. I had a lot of people in the show and I had a lot of guys winning pro cards and congratulate them But it was a great I mean this show is is a monstrosity Chris four straight days four days of competition which I got a commendgar a unit for because It's cheaper if you don't read the venue for you know so that many days and you try to squeeze it into two But you know what it was so much better for the competitors not have to sit back stage for 18 hours and the judges got breaks and I'm glad I didn't have to go to the show because it's four days of covering a show is not fun But I will say this you know it's much much more manageable when you can spread the show like this over you know four days is opposed over two days And I'll tell you I was looking at the pictures on NPC news online Which I commend them for putting up all those pictures it had to be they must have had 14 people tagging the show It was it was a good show. It was great competition. I have a guy's a lot of depth. Yeah, I have guys on the same people I knew the masters, right. Yeah, I have guys and I had one of my guys do the 60 and over Larry Davis So love the fact that I'm mentioning his name and Larry was second and his way class But there's way classes now now when the night first started 60 over my friend Charlie on so you know he won two years in a row And they didn't even give the pro card the first year a Institute of the second because they realized you know we got to start if we're given pro cards for 15 I wish you give him for 60 though and now they give him for 70 but the depth of the 16 out when Charlie wanted there was like three guys in it You know four guys because there just wasn't that many good 60 year olds now They got weight classes in the 60 know that's how many people they got they got heavy weight. They got lightweight. I light heavy weight. They got lightweight middleweight Some believeable and they got and they fill the classes So I don't know if that means it's just more 60 year old guys are competing now or it means that the guys who are who work competing You know when they were younger and now getting older and there's more people available, but I was trying to figure out the same thing Where does the depth because there's a lot of depth where's everybody coming from because I mean the names are not familiar to me But that doesn't mean that they're not really really good. You know what I was looking through the pictures at the NPC news guys are a fifth place for tremendous They would have been winning four years ago easy. I'm so impressed with the guys the 50 year old guys are unbelievable I compete the scary point is I'm looking at the 50 year olds and I'm like yeah, I competed with him. I can beat him with him That's our show. I'm like I beat him. I'm like I beat him Except if I don't look anything like this guy does now, you know, I get crucified now So I commend these guys that they're still around. They're bodies that still functioning Congratulations these guys What a what a crew they give a lot of pro cards that but you know what that when you have a lot of guys you can justify giving a lot of pro cards If you don't have a lot of guys in your hand that pro cards then I'm not I'm not a favorite that I had a the guy when the lightweight class Joe Russo got his pro card My I'm a You see the every single is the bikini for a cards literally I'm gonna count it up 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 19 pro cards and in bikini and I think there's about 19 and 20 in figure also It looks for a pro card. This is a good show to do it out if you're over the age of 35 That's for sure And you go teenagers I'll tell you I help one of the teens who won this is way class like everything Let's see lost the overall unfortunately It's funny there wasn't that many teens in the In the open category Like you we used to the member teenagers always very competitive. I'll keep it You might have you you helped in the team light heavy. Yeah, I'm looking right now. See in Sam Levin's yeah, it was really good Good shape. Yeah, he's got a good good future. Yeah But what happened now is because they have classic Chris is that they're splitting what they're splitting up the you know and teens don't have money It's nothing these teen guys don't have a lot of money. So that can do two classes most of them unless they can compare it to put up the money You know, which is you know the amount of the teens I can only imagine if I asked my dad hey, that can I have 300 bucks Can I have 450 dollars to do two classes of the teenagers he would been like and I got a paper to hotel and then the hair fed to you You got to you out of your mind I would have had a So shovel side walks all went in and save money for that The older six the guys off the hook Right I mean off the hook It's crazy right I'm so impressed with these guys You can you can't you can't you can't write it in this I love it. I'm like look at these guys. I'm like man. I'd have trouble you know beating this guy You know when I was debating you know some of these guys I Help the guy also a frankpint that we came second and 70 and over and I couldn't believe the the level of the 70s. Well, I when I started in 70. I'm like frank known. I don't think anyone will be you know But you never know who's gonna be there. Oh god. I would never see what these masters people because you get some guy who's just peeled out of his you know I mean it was close you know Get somebody you're all guys don't even look 70. That's the crazy thing. They look you know They look like they're I don't know maybe in the 50s I remember the first year they had the 70 in order The guy looked like he was like you know He looked like he was 100 you know he's still I didn't get impressed with his ink, but he looked you know Look though now these guys are like they're like they look great and 70 I remember when I used to go cover the show all the time that whenever these 70 year olds come out They play the um actually it was used to be when the 60s come out. They probably now that was the 70s come out. They play at the rocky music I don't even you know a day I was gonna say what do they play the rocky music I was just gonna go to guess if I should have should have my mouth It's terrific You know the guy won the over 70 if you look at his packs But Ravenscrot crossed excuse me Ravencruft His packs are like great now like old people you have the saggy boobs. You know I'm getting saggy boobs now and this guy Crosstrated packs right across his nipples. It's crazy. Oh, the 70 which guy bud Ravenscroft Let's see Yeah, he don't look like imagine he's he's yeah, he don't look seven days at huge but he's wrapped I mean and his skin looks great I would see the skin skin We'll get this shit we're talking about now. That's that's how you know we can't get your old man's guys got the skin Anyway, I think that I love the show. It's a great job. I wish I could go to it I because I really didn't enjoy that show everyone's so nice there. You know why because these guys are just happy to be competing They don't have a Pisting matches with each other on Twitter It's the best demographic to itself to also because these guys all buy supplements and everything like that and they have money It's like a different it's a different show. It's it's the tone to this show is so good and so much fun It's like no one it's people think it's serious, but it's like really not serious. You don't even because like It's it's not like it's intense like as when you go to the USA The nationals and these guys are like ready to fight each other back stage everyone is having a good time and they're all hanging out with each other and people become friends You know get make friends when they're there. It's just not the same type of situation as you normally see it as show But you know that's what goes And you know it's funny because I'm not going to read off all of the winners because this is too many of them. I did that last time and Ralph Kochia Who won the 16 over the team universe Actually now they call the NPC universe. They don't use the word team universe anymore. He uh he kind of had someone had contact me He was you know he's competing is whole life. He wanted you to mention them. You know, and you didn't mention him. I got him on an interview this guy He's been competing 40 years Chris since 1978 Crazy and what did a great interview right there with them if anyone has this scene it was this guy's intense. He's been his and he's one of these guys I went tense you were when your body building he's been like 40 years Chris for 40 years. He's been back It's like a love with body building. Oh, he's still just his intense is he ever was in terms of like diet and supplements and training and I love it I'm like how do you do it? I said how did you say so like fuck he's like that. I don't know. Just never stop First show he did in 78 John Kapper one the overall I tell you how long you're always John Kapper one May he rest in peace It's a good one though Did you see the latest the big ramen posing footage beta but dinosaurs all the latest the posing video to said said Forward it to me and I usually do some kind of little analysis of it. Did you watch on the sun? Yeah, I'm sorry. What do you would just think of room? I don't look good. I don't think it's like it was pretty good. I think for eight weeks that is good. Yeah, I think he looks good. I don't think he had an abscess on his glutes. I didn't know. Yeah, I mean he looked good. I don't think like I think he's in a good position. I think he's you know of course he's big but Does he have the biggest glutes muscles in like the history of bodybuilding? It's like it's like they're like huge. Well everything's big. I know it's going to be big. I don't know what your role is you're analysis of it. I thought he was in good condition now that this is a good condition. I think that you know like you said at eight weeks out this is a good look for him now. Hopefully they won't feed him up from here and try to make him bigger. I think that if he continues to come down from this point on he could be really really dangerous. He's got a this something unusual about his physique. I think that's the best way to put it. He's so big everywhere that I don't know. It's like he doesn't look like anyone else. You know what I mean? Yep. That's the best way. He almost has and he's way better than Greg Covax but he's almost very Greg Covax into me. He's got just large big muscles that don't look like anything I've ever seen from anyone else. But yet they're not Ronnie Coleman is shrown type. No. Dense like looking muscles. No. Put it this way. How would Coleman look at weeks out? Yeah, I don't know. Probably whacky. But the point is he doesn't look like any other body I've ever seen. So I think that's what makes it hard to judge this guy. But if he comes in ridiculously shredded I don't think you can deny this guy. Can he? Can Phil beat him if he's at his best? That's the question. Phil would have a lot of trouble potentially. That's that said Phil has without a shadow of a doubt the most amount of polish which is his calling card to last two years. And polish means. Detail muscle that's full and doesn't look flat. And actually expands and contracts when he flexes it because a lot of people they, you know, the inside chest and nothing happens. They look great, get into it, they look great in it. But nothing really happened. Yeah. You know, when Phil gets into let's say a side chest, you know, you see a lot more detail everywhere. Things like pop. Okay, you're speaking of Phil, you know, you did obviously, I didn't notice. We, we, we, we did the show as we were both carrying on about. How I, it's terrible that Phil can't have interview with anyone and I don't understand what this exclusivity is about anymore. There's no magazines, why why is there exclusivity? They should Phil should be promoting the, the limp. And it's, you know, we record on Sunday and then of course, you know, Monday morning, you know, I see an interview go up with the, with the, and muscled moment Ron Harris over there. And I found out that he's not he hasn't been on the contract with anyone for two months now. How we're supposed to know that he doesn't tell anyone. I don't know. But yeah, manager Matt, you know, texted me to it. I'm sure he did the same thing for you. I said Matt, how am I supposed to know if this guy doesn't have a contract if no one tells me? I don't know what the deal is it. I don't want to, you know, put him in an awkward situation, ask him to do an interview with him. If I know that he's on the contract or I think he's on the contract. So, we reached out to Phil. And I'm going to hopefully facilitate this interview at some point in the future. Working on questions right now. And I think I think I'm looking forward to it. I think that I can do a good job at Phil. I think I could bring another side of him out and ask some questions that people haven't really asked him before. Because we know it's an normal. The normal questions are the softball questions, you know, that everyone, you know, it's pretty simple to talk about. The bubble got this to that last year, Louis Marko. You know, I'm kind of like, I've just nothing really. That doesn't interest me. I want to know what makes it feel he detects. That's really the question that I want to know. And then fortunately, I don't usually ask questions based on what I think people want to hear. I asked questions would I want to hear, which is usually what people want to hear. So, Phil would enjoy like breaking down the NBA finals. So, that was the question. Exactly. He's right. Yeah, of course. He's a journalist, much probably more enthusiasm for that than, like, you know, what do you think of. Thanks to Rami and Broden who have all been seconded for the last three years. Yeah. Well, we'll see if that happens. Do you never know? I don't know if we talked about Julianna Malik on any retire. We did. Talk about it last week. We briefly touched on it. We're going to be getting you around the show this week. I hope. It's not this week. Next week. It's always good when you make a big announcement. So, I think we can be a big announcement. I think it's always the best thing to do. Make the big announcement and leave and shut your phone off. Oh, my god. I gotta find out what's going on with her. I haven't feeling she's not done competing. But maybe the, obviously, this year she's not competing. But who knows, maybe she's parked out. She's doing it a long time. She's been doing it a very long time. So, I don't blame her. I did a good interview with... You know, I'm pretty well Steve Cardilla too. Oh, yeah, of course. I love Steve. Steve's one. The real good guy. He knows the history of the sport. He's been around since the beginning. You know. And I'll never forget the original Cardilla belt ads with Paul Damell on it. Remember? Good. Good. And so, he still making belts. He's still making a match. It's every, it's very few people who make belts anymore. He has no competition. No one can keep up with him. If anyone who's out there who has a custom belt. 99% chance it came from Steve Cardilla. And he's giving away a... He made these three years... A couple years ago, it made these... I think there was three of them. Three species belts. Beces nutrition belt. They were like these... Electrical green with the black... Species logo, species in black. And I think... I'm trying to think who got two of those belts. He gave them to me. I think a game went for Brousver's pros or something like that. And this one left I see it when we did the interview Tanging in this store there. And he's... I think he's going to give it away if you post on his Instagram. Why you want the belt? It's a good story. So, I think I remember once that belt. You know, he's made belts for all the celebrities. The rock... That's how he... He's made them for everybody. The actor... He's doing airbrush. Like, like, original art ones now. Like, for some of these... Like, movie stars. Like, the rock... Like, the rock wanted his tattoo on the belt. And so Steve's got this guy who, like, Custom spray or paint on the belt. It's actually... It's probably like more of a piece of artwork. The tattoo along with the word the rock. And it's great. I always said that the weight belt or the greatest, like, canvas, like, to put your message out there. And I think that's what Steve really capitalized on. Because, let's face it. I mean, the belt... You weigh your belt every day, you know. Think about, like, these guys who just wear these different t-shirts or slogans. You could wear a different... If you had, like, five different belts, you would different moods you're in. Or different messages you want to get across. You can kind of do it. I mean, it's pretty cool. Most people when they turn pro, they get the IFVP pro on there. You know, they're belts, you know. I would be pro, whatever the name is. The nickname... Sometimes they make up their own nickname. Put on there. Go on. Yeah. Yeah. The him and Paul the male were very tight. And him and Jose, a good friend. Very good friend. Jose talks very highly. Everyone does. He's one of these guys who's been around forever in the sport. And everybody says something good about Steve Cardell. He wanted to... He wanted to make me a belt, but I said, I don't even... What am I going to do with it? Get the technician on there. Yeah, that's what he wanted to do. So, I'm just hanging my stuff out. I'm just hanging the backdrop. So, when we do a TV program, we can answer that. Oh, so empty. It's got those two little pictures on there. You got... I might look at him get midlife prices or something. I'd be able to give it to my son when he leaves him four years. Yeah. There you go. The real technician. Get on that. I don't know. I'll tell you one thing. You'd love Steve Cardell's house. If you watch that interview, I'd do it to him. There's some footage we show from there. He does these water workouts. He's got... He's got this big dock he built. He lives in the water. He's got this big dock. And he has all these pieces of wheat training equipment out there. And he... Well, if Steve has the amount of him and Jose like lifting with those... Like weird. Yeah, and he's got like water contraptions where you... As you lift, the water pours out of the... He's got like these big jugs on the end of the barbell. They're like your weights. So you start out it's really heavy. And then as the water was pouring out while you're doing the set, it gets lighter and lighter. So you can... You can do it. He's got all these cookie things he does. It's pretty interesting. It's pretty interesting actually. But I don't even care about the way to come in. I love the dock. He's got there. It's this huge dock outside this nice house. He's obviously got it really great set up. And he said he keeps expanding the dock. It's like he owns the whole... It's like a marina he built from self there. It's unbelievable. When the word is a mass. Yeah, you gotta find that. He mentions it in the interview to somebody's. But you'll probably know it's... I was very impressed. He's got a nice little set up there. It's probably beautiful in the summer. It's probably freezing to death. But he goes out there in the winter and trains too. I've seen him. Well, the bundled up, but you know, jack, it's just like that. He says it kind of like wakes him up. It like it really gives him like a surge of energy to train out there. And I'll tell you. When I was... When I was in jail for my five-month-old stint, I then... They had the weight pit was outside. And I trained outside and I'll tell you. It's nothing more in the training outside. And it's great because when the season's changed, you know, you get... When they're, you get freezing cold, you get the summer. It's super hot and then in between it's usually nice. I... I love it. I told you, sir, I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... I was... When he was in Paris, he'd do a set. You've walk outside. And then he'd step outside the gym in a tank top and... ...shorts. And then be freezing. And it's down there until he started to shimmer. He chocked protein. He chocked protein. And he would come back in and he would do another set. And he... he claimed which he was right. That shivering would cause his metabolism to pick up. And then it'd come in into another set. And then go all the freeze. Come back in. Him and Blackman, Blackman should... to be able to search and do very died. Blackman could've teamed up with him to first up on the line. No crumbs, shall I hundred days, though? I wonder what part of your body has to get cold to you. Actually initiate the shivering response. Maybe you can just put like a helmet on that's freezing cold. You know, like a little thermostat. Yeah, you can just put your head in. What part of your body? Does that have to be the whole thing? It's maybe just your head, isn't it? Yeah, what activates the heat shock proteins? Now you send me a picture just now. He texted me a picture of surgery on the human human. That's for you. He'll look really good. Yeah. Pretty intense. So many of you are doing the lip here? No, he's not qualified as your own Tampa. Oh, he's got to Tampa first. I forgot about that. He came in second. I'm going down for it. Oh, you are. He's going out of the house. Oh, okay. So you know what? That's even better because you know who John Hansen contacted me. He wants to know if I needed any help doing some coverage. Maybe he can have a good show. He just admitted to me. Oh, good. Together. Some wrap up. I got Henry P. R. Oh, no. Doing the classic, too. No, you're trying to... He got Richard. I'm just saying I think that might have been the... The botry of the year is placing up in... I think my personal opinion. You know, I put it look really good up there. That's a bit of a show. Well, there he is. I just think you have a picture. I mean, tell me if that's not classic, dude. I'm telling you, the surgery. I love the surgery of the picture. The surgery of the picture is great. Great front double. Why so? He really looks good dad there. He doesn't. Yeah. Henry P. R. Oh, no, I said to you a picture of him. He looks like his dad as well. I thought that was the surgery of the brain just set me. Yeah, I said classic, right? Yeah, that's good. It's good. I like the old black and white picture, too. I thought you sent me surgery of the brain first because it looked more like it was black and white. I'm like, oh, I surgery of the brain. No, it's Henry P. R. No. So they had this show out in... Spain. Spain? The whole lot of pro shows in Spain. It's called Spain Aportical. No, that Portugal was a bit too weak. See, this was Spain. It's called the IFB Big Man and weekend. I like the Big Man show. I wonder if it has a bit. It probably sounds better in Spanish, don't you think? Yeah, probably translate it well. It's probably a much more much easier mode, a word in Spanish, but translates to the English to the IFB Big Man weekend. Which is kind of like, I'm just kind of like a little... Almost there I say politically and correctly, a little gay sound. But I like that. Went down in Berndorn, Spain. Where does that? Berndorn, Spain. It's probably on this. Probably South Spain. And I know I'm going to have a million people who are going to just be texting and telling me, you don't know what the fuck you're talking about today. You don't know a new geography. I don't... I really don't know anything. I'm very ignorant. I don't know anything about Spain, but the answer to that. Except Barcelona, I've been there three to four times. In Valier, who've been talking about all year, as being the sleeper guy in the open division. A lot of people, I thought he probably should have been higher at the last show he did. He comes in here and he wins unanimously. Beating a good line up. We'll talk about the other people in a minute. How good is the invalid year? Chris and your mind, and where does he stack up among the rest of the elite body builders in the open-prod division? He is... By the way, we have pictures at RxMuscle.com. If you want to look at these pictures, we do have conferences. I think I've said it already on the show that I think that if he picks the right show, he can win it. Because he's got size, he's got condition, he's got height, he's got width. But he keeps picking shows where he's going up against people with... Maybe a little bit more flow, more roundness to the packs. Less tall, which makes him look more filled out. So I think for him it was just a matter of picking a show where... It was capable of winning based on his physique, where the show was... ...I don't want to say less competitive, but actually that's really what it is. So where do you see him stacking up? Once he hits the Olympia in eight weeks? At the Olympia, it still appears, not going to do anything in the Olympia. It's not... It's great experience for him because he's young, it'd be a great experience for him because he's qualified, it'd be a great experience for him. Because he's going to have to go against the Grammy types. I mean, I don't know the guy, but he's not afraid to compete. And that's... I don't know if it's a lesson or a good story of that when or his win is that you have to compete to win. There's a lot of people who quote, I know a lot of people over the last ten years who do this to me. I should have done that show, I could have won it. I'd just say, yeah. I'm not saying they could have beaten in a year or like on end of this show. I'm talking like just different shows in the past where people... ...to 12 bodybuilders don't really build their story of his life. Well, I mean, it does outside of the center. There's lots of people. I know lots of people. Not lots, but a small handful who could have won multiple shows or just one other shows... ...had they just done it. Tray Alps was the champion of picking the right show and then winning it every single year. I want to watch the show and win the right show. Yeah. I think it won eight. Eight open bodybuilders' shows. Open, not too 12. Yeah, no, and he was usually to 17, you know, to 19, to 19, usually to 17. You're the best. He wasn't afraid to compete. That's why. Yeah. And you see, giving four weeks notice, I'll do the show. So... Well, I was pretty impressed with Ian. I was also very impressed, Chris, and I know I've sent you the pictures from the show. By the way, thank you for the peer, purely for sending me the show. Yeah, I thought he was great too, and I thought he was great on you along. But I thought he was great. I go, I go, I go, I release from Slovakia, play second here, by one point. I believe. And I was very impressed with him. This guy's got a ridiculous amount of muscle on his body. Yeah, he's thick as a baby. He doesn't have the smallest waistline, but he's dense. I mean, look at those arms. Big legs, big legs, and glutes, and his back shots are pretty powerful. I think he's going to be a future big, big name guy. I really do. I think that we should see a lot from this guy. You know, Jimmy doesn't, you know, try to get too much bigger, because I could definitely see him running his physique. It would be that he doesn't really need much more size, you know, maybe just refinement, some posing, help posing. I was very impressed. Yeah, I was also impressed with the almost everyone in the top five in the show were ultra conditioned. Because we haven't seen a lot of conditioning, grainyness, Chris, and the open division this year. That's been the knocking, I said. Well, the open guy, I was being a real cool to show people were talking about people having tremendous condition. Top five. Yeah, but these are guys that like are not household names, and they're crazy shredded. I mean, this guy, I grew up guy. And of course, our good friend Roman Fritz was probably the hardest guy in the whole show. Maybe to the maybe to his entertainment. Yeah, because he probably could have been a lot more full. And I know Roman listens to the show, and I know Roman knows his biggest problem. He doesn't eat enough food. Because he never thinks he's, he never thinks he's going to be hard hard enough. And he's probably, Roman is probably in better shape, off season than most of these guys are when they can come up. Of course, they. So he does do. He does do many of season pictures once, and I thought this was like four days out for some people. Yeah, he needs four weeks to be in shape. You know, there's nothing wrong with that. By the way, when I was competing the last three years in my career, I used to die for four weeks. I'm not kidding. I would four weeks out from the show. I would start my diet. And the second day of the diet. Do you eat almond domes? Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. The second day of the show of the diet. I would feel like I was dieting for eight weeks, 18 weeks already. Because when you lean, it doesn't matter. As soon as you get to that lean level, you feel just as bad. It doesn't, it's like you just started out feeling horrendous. You know, when you have body fat, you start dieting, you don't feel that bad. You get some reserves to go on. So Roman might need to be doing like, you know, four to six week diets. You know, I would put a little bit of cardio in, not a lot, and maybe 20 minutes. And I would cut back my food, you know, a little bit. I'd be like, yeah, that, my son's calling. Oh, my goodness. I have to show you. I have to do a pause here. A pause baller for our, let me see if my son quites down. This is the chat. This is the challenge of being a parent. Dad, Dad, all right, hold on, Chris. So yeah, I didn't really diet that while I'm Chris back in the day, but I, you know, Roman's got to come to grips with the fact that he just doesn't need to diet that while I'm over dieting, he's not helping him. Now, this guy, Andrea, Munzi, or Munzi, from Italy. I was impressed with him too. Really good. Right. I think he's a conditional. Right good conditioning. Very good. I mean, I see a guy who's crazy conditioned on stage. I'm impressed. And I got to tell you, you know, it just goes to show you. Conditioning, you know, really places you high. Because he has a guy we never even heard of. And obviously his conditioning is what landed him in this top five in this competition. So that's a message. I'm sending this, the judges are sending to all these people because it wasn't five guys in the show. There was, there was a lot of guys in the life. It was 16 guys in the lineup. So, you know, to make top five here, it wasn't easy. You know, so the most conditioned guys with the guys in the top five. And then you get that Mohammed Shaban from Kuwait, who's fifth, who's also really impressive here. So I thought it was a good, it was a good top five guys there. And I think that, you know, if anyone has a take home message from this, it's sharp and shape. There was also a prop, the, the prop bikini on the other hand was terrible because it was four girls in the show. Diana Solomon, one from Hungary, the graduation star. And so that was the, the first rendition of the big man weekend. Take it. You know, I went to school with the elementary school with a kid by the name of Scott Bigman, spelled the same way, Bigman. It was a good soccer player, Big kid. It's always going when your last name is Bigman to have to be like over six feet tall, you know. Imagine if you're like, yeah, you can't. Exactly. Imagine if you're like really short. Obviously, you know, I always think about how these names came about, you know, like in the beginning. Like when people were first naming them each other. And obviously, everyone makes up their first name, but at some point people made up their last name, too, right? They probably was based on what you did, you know. If you were a big guy, there was probably the big man. The kid Scott, Bigman probably his relatives were giants or something like that. So they called him they, they, they, they, they, they, they, Bigman. Get over here, you know. And I don't know what, where my name came from. I think Palumbo means the piece or something like that, or the pigeon, and Italian from what I understand. So maybe they would maybe my relatives were pigeon breeders, but for all I know. Cito means vinegar. Yeah, you guys were vinegar makers. You probably grew grapes and, and from, and you're, you're, you're, you're probably horrible making wine. And they turned it all the vinegar by accident. So they said that we need vinegar. Well, you guys will be the vinegar makers. So they said, we get a seat, though. See, though. Bring us the vinegar. We have to preserve some some pickles. Whatever they were making back of a day. That's the juice. What do they, what do they, what do they tell you? What do they tell you? What do they tell you? Pickle, I don't even know. I don't know. Pickle vinegar for salad. Sorry, who knows? I could be. Yeah. They're, they're, they're, like, like, like, think of some other good names. Like, uh, I don't even know. Schwarzenegger. He was black. They, they probably like, they're, they're like, shots in the egg. It doesn't mean black, black man. I think it does, right? Yeah. Jeremy Boindy. A Boindy doesn't mean good. Well, that's, that's possible. And the one, he says. He's, he. Uh, yeah. Spass a line of tapes like Trump sex lawyer. Yeah, he's got, he's got plenty evidence. He doesn't need it. He's got his photographic memory. Yeah. He's got him. He may have the most photographic memory outside of NASA in this photo body film. But she's hope he doesn't wind up the same way NASA does. I will say one thing, Boston wise, got one cute little kid. This little baby is really cute. Everyone's baby. Everyone is having babies. They're all growing so fast. It's crazy. My, my daughter is six months old. Seven months old now. Just, just turn seven months. And she's almost walking. My son was, wait, my way, way. I think women girls in general tend to develop quicker than boys. But she's like physically, you mean, yeah, physically and emotionally and mentally actually, too. I think boys are just, like, a little behind the girls. I don't know what it is. Maybe all the testosterone and their body just kind of distracts them from developing. I don't know what it is. I haven't come up with my theory shit. Child development theories. I'm like my kids are all enough to really have them. I will have them at some point on how my own child development theories, you know, what's wrong? I told my toy old today at dinner. He didn't need to salmon. His brain would not grow. There you go. That's good. I would use the same thing on a problem. And he would not eat it. He's, he deferred to eating vegetables. Vegetables. Vegetables. Without make my brain go. That's funny. Yeah, I don't know what what age the kids get to it. They don't eat my son. You'll eat anything pretty much right now. I don't know if that's going to change. Yeah, as he gets all the kids taste buds change. I know him's my taste buds have changed over the years. I'm eating stuff now that I never would have eaten 20 years ago. I taste buds are like, it's like, I'm becoming, yeah, what we've talked about before. Been coming out parents. Yeah, I'm something that you eat like my dad eat so much. That's the last time I'm like a little glass of wine every night with dinner. That's probably just to deal with the stress of being a parent. Yeah, that's it. I'm just going to say that's just because you have two kids to say the same one. And I was eating all of the green olives. I've always hated my whole life. I love all of them. But now I'm not allowed to eat them because the garlic breath. As Italians, we emanate our spices through our skin. And then they claim to smell like terrible. The garlic that comes out of my skin is terrible. And I wouldn't argue with, I would present the argument up because I do, I do notice that my skin will release whatever I'm eating. Onions, garlic, that kind of stuff. So I try to just limit it so that I'm not offensive to her. I'm not offensive to her. I'm not offensive to her. I'm not offensive to her. It's probably not a good way to have a good marriage. So I'm willing to give up my great olives. You don't notice the smell of garlic. And she does. You know, you can always taste it a little bit in your mouth. No one can smell you as much as the next person. And she's got a very good taste. I always thought I had to get to the smugs. People always irritated that I would smell everything. And she's way way more, her sense of smells way more cute than mine. Which also is one of the reasons why I think I might be getting Alzheimer's. That's one of the first things to go. You said to the smell, did you know that? I know that. You can't smell things as good. That's one of them. So it's terrible to be around someone who's got to manage it. There's a correlation. Is that true? Yes. No, I'm not making it up. It's a direct correlation. They said that you can't smell certain things. You can Google it. You'll say. Just funny. You know what? I can't smell anything. You know what? I'm serious. We're going to wipe out this. I'm fucking loony bing me too. People. I'm dead serious. If you were in my house, people would say you smell that. They get mad. No, I can't smell it. That's the first time too. I can't smell it. I can't hear it. And now with glasses, I can't see it. Yeah, I can't see anything. So my sense is being dull. So that even makes me think that I'm really losing my mind. Because you know, vision is a huge sense. And I can't say anything up close anymore. I can see distances, but I can't see close. Unless I need glasses. I have contact lenses. This is the irony. I have contact lenses in my eyes. And I have to wear reading glasses really if I want to read something close. That's what happens in the head 50. I said, I hit when I hit 30, I lost. I saw losing my hair. When I hit 40, I don't know what happened to 40. What happened to 40? I have my hair. I just can't smell, see your hair. I'm sorry. But you look at. That's my dad's famous statement. I said, but at least you look good. My father's famous statement is that I look great. I'm falling apart though. So I took a picture of them today while I was laying on his death bed. And basically, dad, you look pretty damn good. I got to tell you. He's like, hey, Kibeli, speak. I show him the picture. He's like, yeah. He created. He's like, he's so main, my father. He's so pit. Matter of fact, in the hospital when he was he was having some really bad days. But I thought he wasn't even going to make it to the areas today. The only thing he responded to, there was a really pretty good look at nurse that was working in the hospital. And she would come in and want to feed my dad. He all of a sudden perked up a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. It was just like, it was probably like a subconscious like perking up because I don't think he really was, you know, even aware of what was going on. But all of a sudden he was eating well for her and you know, and responding to her. No one else he was responding to. I was like, putting my eyes like three inches from his eyes. And I was like, you know, I can get a response. That was the only way I would get a response from him. But like, yeah, but she just had to come in there with feed him and he was like, he was loving it. Let me see what else took place this past weekend here. We had the Los Angeles didn't think the Los Angeles championships used to have a pro open division or my make-up. The cow has one. I put the LA championships to do. I think they think so. You must have changed it. The LA image has showed you. Remember how competitive that is? I know. You used to be crazy. That was like a step away from the nationals. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's because Chris that's because everyone moved out to California to be professional bodybuilders. So they all did a little bit of a little bit of a show. Yeah. Yeah. Michelle Pinto won the pro figure out there. She's from Brazil. What a resilience. Melissa Bumsted, second place Chris Bumsted's sister. She's got a great physique. You know, I always wondered why she didn't go to women's physique. She's got like Chris's physique. I mean basically Chris Bumsted and sister got the same exact physique. They built tall. These crazy structures. She likes figure though. She likes figure. She was at the Olympic last year. I still think she should do women's physique. I really like her because I think she'd be great at it. But maybe she doesn't want to get that big. I think she's actually big enough. But who knows? What do I know? Third place. Julie Mayer. She's always in there. She's doing it for many, many years. So congratulations to those ladies at the LA Championships. And the only other show of the weekend was the battle in the desert. So he was one of the show. There was a romance physique there. And Anthony Woods took that title. Long Wu from China, second. And Daniel, a month. And called station third. Long Wu, I think is the only real men's physique pro that I know from China. Thank you. Thank you. Right. They got some good, well known that she's a Korean. The Koreans got the good two, 12 guys. I'm surprised we don't see more Chinese athletes. Think about it. They got two billion people there. I was thinking that the other day. How's that? I think once China, like, just really, you know, basically relinquishes control, you know, of all their athletes and let's, you know, really, I guess spread their wings. So to speak, I think we have to see a lot more Chinese athletes. I really do. Like you said, because of the sheer numbers. Indie too. We're going to start seeing some really great Indian by those. I work with a lot of these Indian guys. And I'm telling you, they, they, they, they, they, It was such a corrupt system there that you couldn't get pro cards there. They didn't have any pro qualifiers. Now that the, the, the, the, oh, we've opened up. You, we got rid of Rafael and we, we've opened up the ability for people to, you know, hold pro qualifiers and then you're going to see some great Indian body bills. I mean, there's no reason why a mid-roy had to come all the way from India to the United States get married and then qualify. And it was the most, the most cocky, maybe way he had to turn pro. Now people in India, this pro qualifiers, you know, a good French, the Ruhoads pro qualifying events and this one coming up pretty soon. So we're going to see, we're going to see that this, the, the landscape, I believe in the, uh, some of these men's divisions. And eventually the women's divisions completely changed because you're going to get some really great talent for Asia that we never had before. Because they were restricted. And we can get these people from the Middle East over here from my ran to, I got to give Kamali credit, King Kamali predict it. He said, he didn't remember. He predicted it, you know, because he said this, you know the quote, right? Say it. I know what you're going to say. You say it. He said the hotty chopens are a dime a dozen. Yeah. He used that a permanent dime a dozen. He said this better. And to turn out, they, he kind of is a dime. I mean, there's just a lot of good, already bodybuilders. Yeah. Good genetics over there. tremendous. And you know what the difference is when the country actually surprises and supports the sport, you know, like bodybuilding in, in these Middle Eastern countries, the guys get better because they, they're, they're not like running around scared like, oh my god, I'm going to be arrested. They're like, the fucking government's pay me, give me a house and, and pay me a salary to, to beat the best bodybuilder can beat. Not just if we had that in this country, how good would we just, the talent would be unbelievable if you, if they actually, you know, embraced bodybuilding is a major sport here and they actually didn't try to stick you guys, stick us a jail for being bodybuilders using anabolic steroids. That's the guys would be unbelievable. They would be 25 running commons out there. Oh, all in the lineup. That would be your, Olympia lineup. You'd have four running commons, five running running commons, competing against each other. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was, well, I think it was dusty. The hand show played a joke on a lady who's when he won the North American, so I was classed at the North Americans. And she said, wow, he won the, I think it was dusty. You won the North Americans. Maybe someone won the nationals and they said, yeah, and they said, what he went for that, and they said, the government gives me $250,000 a year. I can just work out. Listen, wow. Yeah, what's his name? Come out. Oh, gardening there. Who's going to be doing the 2012. This guy got paid more money from over his course of his life, right? Yeah. He was, he was, he was, he was quote amateur at a post at a, at a higher than per level salary. What was he making? He told you. He was ridiculous. He was ridiculous. They were, you know, open gems. Like, you know, not lovely, little hole in walls, but, you know, gems are no partners. Yeah. No. It's tremendous. Maybe one of these days our country will lighten up a little bit. I'd love to see. Wouldn't you love to see some of these professional athletes that, like, you're doing, like, football, and they're doing, like, some of these other sports because they can make money there. Actually, using their genetics, like, for to see what their physique development could look like. My god. Yeah. I can't even imagine what the physics would look like. If it was, if it was something that you can actually make money doing. Well, I mean, passion, Trump's money, too. I mean, a lot of people. It doesn't. No, what money doesn't hurt. Money is a very good, a very good driving force for, for guys that have great genetic abilities. Well, yeah. Right. I'm sure, okay. Look, this guy said, would love to probably be professional bodybuilders, but they're, like, you know, what? I could, uh, I could throw a football, you know, 100 yards, you know, and, you know, 20 million dollars a year to do that. So, they had a pro bikini, excuse me, pro, uh, figure division, oh, no, pro bikini. Sorry, division also at this, um, battle of the desert. And I got to tell you, this, Ashley called wasser is on a roll. She's one three shows since her comeback. She's obviously a former Olympic a champ in bikini. And she'll be going up against, uh, Angelica Tashara this year. And, uh, this might be one of the most anticipated battles in the bikini divisions. We haven't seen two Olympic a champs really square and off against each other. Seems like every year there's like a new bikini champ. So, this will be pretty interesting to see what happens. Francesca Lauren was second in his show, India, Paul Lino coming back, you know, after giving birth, very recently coming in third. She's, I believe, for second a third show. And she's placed, I think, top three and all of them. So, who said, given having a baby is, uh, is a death warrant to your physique, because the Indian Paul Lino is looking great as ever. So, congratulations to those ladies. And that was it. That was all the action in the I-3-bit as best we can. But, I will say this, Chris. The schedule's heating up with eight weeks to go to the mister. I want to be a competition now. We're going to start getting so a lot of, like, uh, I think a lot of exciting stuff's going to start happening now. People are going to really start, you know, focusing on who's going to win this Olympia. And the question is, can Phil Heath score number eight? I mean, to put himself in the rarefied era of guys like Ronnie Coleman, Le Haney. He's already tied and Arnold's, right? Seven, I want to be as, who would have thought when Phil first won the Olympia that he was going to win this many? The only person who would probably have said that was Jay Colour, right? Jay said he was going to win 10 right? I was just saying the show dude, because I can't get, I can't get that. I mean, I'm going to say that too. I knew you were going to fall that with. The only one who would just predict that would be Jay. Jay has been saying the only one who would come and answer him. He said he's going to win 10. Jay sent me an email picture of the date he met Phil. Was that anyone who won the Colorado? No, you just, no, Jay went off to guess post somewhere. At the Colorado, I believe, right? And then Phil went off to guess post somewhere. Then he said, I met it. Jay would remember this too. He said that met it. He just started training. And he's a combo wheeler in the room. Yeah, he was right. He was right. Well, one of the questions I want to ask Phil is what year does he think he was best? What would you say? I know who would. I know what you're going to say because we've already discussed this. The year, his best look was at the Sharo without a doubt. And I'm sure he would agree with that. Yeah, I don't know if I saw that one. I think I was a, you were there, right? Yeah. What about the year? You remember we were talking about how great he looked at that 2010 Arnold classic. We were a Ky Green one. I thought he should have showed. Yeah, I agree. He was, he was, he had paper thin skin. Absolutely papers thin skin for that show. And he was, I mean, round the house. Small ways. And structure was just he. He looked good. I think, you know, look, you know, we saved this all the time. And you know what, I'm probably guilty of it, too. We all, isn't it true, even riding to, we get too big. Jay, Jay, it's the quote machine. Jay said somewhere. A long time ago, he told me we were all better smaller. That's a quote from Jay. We were all better, smaller. Because we lose, we lose touch. We always think we got to get bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger does look better in tank tops in the gym, but not necessarily on stage. So. And then again, maybe that's just what happens. Maybe you can't even stop it. You know what I mean? Maybe if you try to not get bigger, you, you couldn't do it, you know. Like if you just keep training and doing what you're doing and taking the, the supplements. Maybe that's just what happens, you know, I don't know. Unless you're pulling like a LeBronian, just not training half the year. You know what I mean? And I think anything. Maybe that's the problem. Yeah, but he was, you know, LeBronian was the Brooney's best was when he won the New York Pearl. Yeah, and play second. Period. Period. I mean, he had a lot of good years, but those years, you know, those two shows were when he was as best. Yeah. And I think I asked him, I think he was 28 when he won that New York Pearl. Oh, really? That's it. Wow. He looked great when he placed the second of that Olympian in the behind the arena. Yeah, it's crazy. That was great. I think the 9 to 9 champions. You know, it is his legs whenever I don't know if he had an injury or he just didn't train them. He had crazy legs. What do you want to do? Crazy. Big, big, big legs. And he never went best body part. Yeah, yeah, no one really remembers LeBronian when he had a huge legs because his, his legs were never great after that. I don't know if he just didn't train them, you know, or if he had an injury. His legs was so huge that in 1999, I told the story a million times. In 1994, I was competing at the NPC's suburban championships. And he was, it was no, it was 92, excuse me, 92. And he was gasposing there. And his legs were so big that he was wearing these pants. I don't even know where he got these pair of pants from. The pants was so big that the legs of the pants were as big as the waist. And he, I remember he couldn't even get his pants off on it. He had someone helping him to get take his clothes off. And when he took the pants off, I couldn't believe how big his legs were. They were huge. And I was just like, holy. Yeah. His guy was enormous. He was never, he had, he would never be that big again. This was in the off season. He was off season. He never, after those like first couple of wins he had in the pros. He never got big, he always stopped training in the off season. And I think it was because after he injured that pack bustle, remember when he tore his pack, he always, he said he was afraid to train after that. He wouldn't want to push himself all year round because he was afraid to pair something else. But man, he had some freaking wheels from hell. Really, very impressive. That a very impressive. Alright, well, Chris, people seem to be enjoying our banter lately. I don't know why, but this is like I said the exciting part of the season. Coming up, we got the, we got the USA championships this weekend, right? That's right. How's Chris? That was a show I used to be talking about. Yeah, well, I don't even know who's in it because God forbid they put out in a competitive sheet or something like that. Obviously, we're going to be getting some new pros this weekend at that show as well in the open division. And that's always a great show. I used to love to go to that show to be honest with you. But then, you know, then they, John Lindsay, who's, I consider a very good friend, who made it too hard, you know, they jump through hoops. I don't want to go to these shows where I get to go to hoops. Plus, it's a thousand people in the show. It's too hard to get to the American show. Yeah, it's one of these long shows. But I love to see, I love to interview the winners of these shows because the, Mr. USA is not like a great title. So you're Mr. USA. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. And the National Champ is great. It was not a great title, Mr. Minister Mary. I think they should buy it back from who I'm on set. Yeah, I think so too. Even though it's a little, it's, I mean, it's less known than let's say when you are a kid. Right? Keep it a thing made upon. I mean, will there be just great on Mr. America? I mean, that's the open men's, the best, the greatest men's body-building amateur body-builder in the world to be Mr. America. I mean, I remember all the guys who would win the Mr. American, American they would get like belt him could cardill a belts with Mr. Margaro right? Yeah. Moholic opened the gym Mr. America's because he was Mr. Margaro. That's right. That's what he could. What was the name of the town? I think it was in Hexville. It was in the town right by my house. Yeah. I never trained there. I never saw the gym ever. I was before my time. But I heard it was it was the old gym with the paneling on it. You know, remember when people used to put paneling on their walls? Of course. Of course. I still see paneling around. Yeah. It'll probably make it come back, I'm sure. Paneling. No one knows what was walking about. Probably. No, that's why I'm saying paneling. People won't know what it is. Well, though, no. I mean, you can describe it. I can, I'll say how you describe it to everyone knows what we're talking about. If you watch the movie pumping, and you remember the gym Louis Furgno was training it in Brooklyn. It was a whole paneling. It was a little paneling. That was paneling. Why did people panel to like update their place? It was like wood. It was like wood. It was like wood. It was like wood plank. It was like almost like put you how you put down a wood floor. It was like wood on your walls. That was like cool. And think about the whole 70s was paneling because then they had the station wagons with the paneling on it, right? I mean, that's so funny. You can have right on the outside of the. Yeah. It was like the cool thing to do to have like paneling on the outside of your wood paneling on your station right in there. But that who would put wood on a car? You know, that was really wood-bought. No, but sure a lot. It's just, you know, everything comes full circle. I guarantee it'll make it come back. It's a little different type. Yeah, that's like some of the type of paneling. It'll be like a cooler version. This is cool. I got to have that. They have to call it something different though because paneling is just not sexy anymore. You know, wall covering. Kind of like, you know, wood plank blowing there. Something like that will come up. It's a better crazy name for it. Or Zilly and wall cover. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they got to throw like an international name and they're like, it's been like. The Amazon rainforest. Yeah, they got it from. Something like that. That's a little make it more appealing. So anyway, I'll be spending this week probably mostly except for Tuesday and Wednesdays when I do filming will probably be my dad's. I should set up like a cat. I should set up like a webcam there. The case by dad does says anything like really, you know, I'm waiting. I'm waiting. You need to. You need to because you. No. I mean, you. I've been video to. What I do is I fall my phone out. Yeah, I pull my phone out and I put the video camera. I started asking questions. I'm like that. I'm like, I'm like waiting for him to give me some kind of like, like from the heavens. He's drawing him, you know, some kind of tremendous like. Words of wisdom for me for the rest of my life. I'm waiting for the deliver something like that. But he hasn't. Yeah, it's all been gibberish pretty much. But I know my daddy's so creative. He wouldn't just go out like with without a bang. He's got to get him. He's got to hit me with something, you know. You're going to pull the fire on the front of the place. He can't even lift his hand up. He can get out of bed now. That would be some miracle for sure. It's a little sad. Well, it's a, you know, I got to just say these these hospice houses are just unbelievable. They have like rest like a cafeteria there. They have like, you can be that you can say the 24 hours a day if you want. They have a pull out bed. You know, you could have, it's, they have a beautiful garden and water. I'm like, I think it holy macros is so nice here. It's what a great place. It's great idea. I like man, look at that fountain. I would kill the heaven. My house and everything's donate, you know, pretty much a lot of stuff is donate by people who were there before. And it's a very peaceful environment. I recommend that you have any loved ones that are, you know, have their days of numbered. Look at the hospice. It sounds like a depressing thing. It's completely not depressing. It's like it's, it's dying with dignity. Really. I mean, it's what it is. It's funny that Dr. said to me, I was trying to decide what to do with my dad. And because I didn't want to pull the antibiotics, but they really weren't working. And I just felt like, you know, it's just like, you know, it's not the right decision. And he's like, look, let me ask you this question. You follow, obviously, it's, it's Kim. He's, he's got dementia. If he was fully, you know, aware of what was going on. It can articulate the way he did in his young years. What would he say given the situation? If he was looking into the situation now, I'd say, you'd get me. I'd say, well, I said he told me to get a gun and blow his brains out. The doctor almost thought a laughing. I said, I said, I said, and my sister said the same thing. I could say I'm pretty much, you know, she was there. And I said, yeah, now he wouldn't want to. He wouldn't want to see you end it. End it, end it, end it. He was telling me to call Jack of Orcine five years ago. You know, and, and, and, because he was, you know, Well, that was the, that was the dramatic. Yeah, which the funny thing was, my dad was in more pain five years ago, then he was now, which, which tells me that it was probably mental pain. It was in more so than physical pain. Because he's only, he's on like, no pain. No pain. Meds now. He's met amazing. Yeah. I told you, my dad was on 80 milligrams of oxycontin twice a day. And it wasn't any bestillin pain. He was telling. He would complain. But because it's in my, he must have been going through a painful point in his life emotionally. It was mental pain. Because it's nothing like emotional pain. It was, it's a total mental pain because as soon as he's, his dementia got bad where he couldn't remember anything. And he couldn't remember his pain. He wasn't in pain anymore. Is that crazy? Is that the only area of life? Yeah. Well, that's the, yeah. The week and create our own pain. It's suffering. What? That's why it was tell people. It's a quarter of the week. You get what you think about whether you wanted or not. My dad was thinking about painful thoughts. And that's what he, that's what he was in. As soon as he couldn't, he couldn't make those thoughts anymore. Because he couldn't, he remembered the thoughts. He was out of pain. Isn't that a, if that's not causing effect right there. Think about it. My dad, you know, supposedly, you know, chronic the, the genital of our spinal arthritis, which, you know, that's where it claims his pain was coming from. Which it should have gotten worse and worse from worse obviously, right? His, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his pain got better. Less and less. And if that's not like a message out there, guys that, you know, sometimes if you're, if you're feeling chronic pain, or you're feeling like something is like, always wrong with you. Maybe it's the way you're thinking. Change you thinking. Not, and people, they have to go through it. People, people, they have to go through it. People, sometimes it's easier to do that. Yeah, but you know, because people think they have to go take these yoga classes, and they think they have to go and be retrained. And you can change the way you think in three seconds. You don't need to read any spiritual books to do it. You don't have to watch any way in dire seminars. You don't have to listen to Anthony Roberts, Robbins. You can just change the way you think and just stop. Let's say the buck stops here today today. I can say I know a lot of people have to, they're depressed all the time. And they think their life sucks and they don't realize how good they really have it. And it's just like, just because they all they do is just dwell on the negative. Just change the way you think today. Think, think about, no matter how bad everything that's going to be. Think about how bad everything that's going in your life. Think about good things that are going on in your life. Just focus on that. Try it for two days. I'm sure you can, you can manage to do for two days. I guarantee you things will change in your life. I promise you they'll change in your life. That's how sure I am of it. And on that note, we're out of time. Until next week, remember with heavy muscle radio? The truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

Day, Palombo here with Chris Asito, for an RX muscle, news update, the Tampa Pro 2021 open class has led out. Chris E. Invalier has won the event. He is going back to the Olympia, as predicted he came in here and he took home the victory. The question is, how good of the victory was it from on first impression, what did you think of Ian? I think it's his best ever look by far. He looks bigger than he was last year for sure, but I think his condition was better than it was overall last year. He had good fullness, which is really what he needs. Going forward, let's say from last year, how can you make the, what can I improve? I think on his physique, fullness is more important than like mind, boggling condition, but he was full of the other last year for sure. Right. And his condition is just better here than it was last year. He got, it's he a guy like a dentist wolf that if he comes into flat, he'd be just over the wow from his physique. Yes, you know what? I think last year, like I was critical of his condition when he won whatever it is that he wanted to take a new pro or whatever show he won. And he got beat by Hunter of your member last year. Yes. And then next week, yes, he want to show. And I think in both of those shows, you know, he looked good, but I think here the added size helps give the illusion of more condition. And outside, remove the added size, he definitely had better condition here. So not only did he get bigger, but his condition improved. I mean, he didn't have these glutes and hands and back detail last year. So that's all improved. And as part of the improvement is more development, I think he's got better developed hamstrings here. He's got better mid and low aback, but his condition here is, you know, for for that size is spot on. Even his arms are bigger from behind this year, I think. Yeah, I think people are a little critical of him because they were expecting, you know, and you said this before, I mean, you're probably one of the people who puts down the internet as much because, you know, when you put pictures up on Instagram, you know, it's not a true representation because it's like putting a gym photo of you in a tank top. You know, you can look like the Dennis James looking Mr. Olympia in the tank top as a gym. And, you know, I'm sure if you put that picture on Instagram, people would be like, how did this guy not win the Olympia? You know, and so, but I think this was a good stage look for him. And I think you're right in the sense that he had the fullness with conditioning. He's still the most conditioned guy or pretty close to the most conditioning. I maybe still, well, I was a little tired of it. It's structurally, you know, he's really good. And I think when he fills out that big frame of his, it's impressive looking, you know? Well, the number one Colin Cardazee has is the frame. It's like, I mean, the Dennis Wolf was a perfect example. Dennis Wolf had shows that, you know, when he was round and full, even if his condition wasn't spot on, people loved him and the judges loved him as opposed to when he tried to like dial it in and bring it like, you know, a super tight look on that frame. It's so wide and big, you know, it acts as a detriment chasing condition. So for the big, for someone who's big and wide, it's always important to try to keep your fullness. Of course, the criticism is when you try to keep the fullness, that's the same thing Dennis would sometimes, you know, experience. People said, well, you gotta bring it in tighter. So I think for this, for this show, this is, I don't think, I think this is compromise. Yeah, it's a perfect spot on way to come in. He's, you know, big, full and hard. Phil Khohar, you know, I worked with him in the past and, you know, this guy has the ability to get ridiculously ridiculously tight and shredded. And, you know, that's his calling card. He has good shape, but, you know, obviously, I don't think he's as complete as in Valier and I, you know, a lot of people thought, you know, well, maybe Phil could win the show because he was really, really tight, especially from behind, but I think at the end of the day, I mean, it comes down to, you know, muscle size and structure at some point. I think that's why Ian was able to, you know, securely win unanimously. Yeah. I thought, I thought he'll look tremendous, like his, his backshots with the condition was like absolutely outstanding and from the front and from the side. Yeah, he's improved, too. He's improved. He's improved. You know, he's teased bigger and he's harder. And, you know, this is his best and I think that if Ian was like, quote, not full enough or just not as tight enough, you know, Phil could have landed in the first spot, but I think it was a very well deserved second place and his condition was really, really outstanding. I mean, he was super tight in the backshots, like a really tight. And this, this shot you put up too, side chassis, super tight, pecks is threaded. Yeah, Wilson Ham's are like really dry. And I know these pictures don't really show what people's true condition is. So, you know, he looks super tight here, but, you know, I'm sure in real life is even tighter. He's a guy who works his butt off and, you know, what, he, he, he, he lives it. I mean, he, he, he doesn't care. You can make him suffer as much as you want. And I'm sure he worked this whole off season on making improvements to his music, which I see did and he brought the conditioning and he needed to. And you know what, he was rewarded for it. I think I, I love to see guys get rewarded for hard work and bringing something special to the stage. Let's face it. Every guy in this pro lineup is a, is a, is a genetically superior to the average person. So, all these guys have their own gifts. But if you can, you know, make your gift, or bring your gift to the stage at its best, then, and then you get rewarded for it. You can't, you can't come away from the show with bad feelings. I'm sure you wanted to win, but at the end of the day, he knows he was his best. So, I think this was a great second place for him. Well, the effect of the matter is in Chicago, technically on paper, he got smoked. Yeah. He was like out of the top 10. And I think he was overlooked there. Yeah. You know, when, when you get overlooked, it happens sometimes. When you get overlooked, it's just hard to bounce back to another show mentally for a lot of people. You know, they, they, because what happens is they, you know, have a thousand different opinions from a thousand different people that say, you know what, Phil, what you need to do is this. And, you know, half the people say, fuller, half the people say harder. You know, some people say, fuller and harder. Some people say, you know, you come in and too soft to tight, you know, you flat because you were bigger two weeks out. So, pinned the bounce back like that from a bad place and not a bad showing. It was a good showing because in terms of looking great. But it's a great bounce back and it's good to see it's great to see, like solidly in the mix of first place because the judges obviously, you know, looked at him and couldn't deny that type of condition that he brought. Now, third place Charles Griffin, you know, this guy gets bigger every single year, he gets improved. He has a tremendous amount of mass on his body. And for me, I always thought, you know, he's got that very short torso, almost like a guy greenish like short torso. And I think that that can sometimes hurt him a little bit just because maybe he doesn't have the crazy, crazy V-taper of, you know, of some of these guys. But what was your overall impression of Charles here from on a scale one to ten? You know, he's stuck there, you know, like an eight or so. I think just what happens is he's going to get in who's very wide. In a bigger guy, you know, and he's going up against Phil, who just brought in, you know, his lifetime best-dense. Phil was just dense city. So, you know, the odd guy out, you're not as wide as in Valier. And you're not as dense, even though you are a very dense bodybuilder, you're not as dense as Phil. So, you know, you land as high as you can in a show like this. You know, it's a deep show. You know, third place is nothing to sneeze at. You know, he looked great. And I think he, you know, I mean, he's markedly better than what he was the last couple shows. I don't know if he had injuries a couple years ago or peaking problems, but, you know, he looked really good here. All right. I think he's his size and fullness with the best they've ever been. He definitely got bigger from the last time he saw him. I think he could be could have been a little drier, maybe in the glutes. I mean, and hamstring, I mean, that's being like super picky, but I think with his structure, because he does have the short torso, if he was a little harder, I think he would have had a little more wow to his physique. And I think he might have snuck by Phil. I don't think he would have been in, but I think he could have snuck by Phil if he was tired. Possibly. Yeah. He possibly got him snuck by Phil. It's tough to say, because then he got more muscle than Phil. He does what they're the torso on the front double and the abshot. That type of condition that Phil was in. I don't know, even if this guy was even tighter, I would have put him ahead of Phil. Possibly. Let's talk about fourth place max troughs, because max has been on the upsurge. I thought the last show we talked about his physique and how he actually was might have been the best he'd ever been, compromised for upper body and low body. I thought his legs look really good here, but what was missing from max and why he's the end of this top grade? You know, like he's just the other three guys were better. You know, Anne's bigger, you know, with better condition, Phil has got better condition. And Griffith's got better legs. And Griffith's got better legs and better glutes in him. So, I mean, this was a really tough line out. I thought max was better. Yeah, two weeks ago, I think he's better than Chicago. Yeah, I thought he was the I thought he was better in Chicago. That's the point I was trying to make. I just think he had a better combo of leanness or water lack of water retention there and you know, which could have given the illusion they are fullness, but he just looked better. They have fuller tighter. I mean, look good here. I think his back shot was pretty good. His hamstrings and glutes were pretty good here. Yeah, I feel like maybe he's a little flat. Maybe I don't know. Is that is a possible? I don't know. His upper body doesn't look as much. Doesn't look as it's. It's a little bit. Yeah, you know, I think is that the way it is. So, this is the reason why let's say when Tbilicalhar gets on paper smoked two weeks ago when you get a million different opinions. The, you know, max probably, people probably judges and clued it said, bringing the glutes in him's brought him in, but the back thickness is like not as thick as it was two weeks ago. So it's like a trade off. Right. It's fullness versus, you know, it's, you know, it's, you know, unless you're like, Coleman, you know what I mean? We have everything right. Roddy had everything. Like he could get everything. I mean, he did look at that. If you look at that picture, you know, he did what he needed to do. This is the best. I mean, from the back, I've ever seen Max Charles. I got to tell you, you know, it's a good balance of glutes, hands back, but you know, I think it was better in the back from the trunk sub two weeks ago and, you know, let's talk a most shabon in fifth place. What do you think? Give me a comparison of the last couple times we've seen him to this, this time and did he deserve was the fifth place right call for him? Yeah. Do you know, he could have placed higher? I mean, all shows he can place higher. That's a crazy thing. That's right. Yeah. What would you like to see improve on him? Because he's really, I think he's really good. I think he's one of the most ungraded. I think he's very underrated. Yeah. I mean, that front last friend, it looks like you know, five six version of hands with that allakes. Yeah. I mean, you know, back up his back shot is unbelievable. You know, so he's, he's really, really good and really underrated. I mean, that back double was really good. I mean, he was saying, you know, Jose would say that they're judging him on height. That's true. You know, is he short? I'm not sure. I didn't know. You know, he's the one that the short guy is up there. He's outstanding. I mean, everyone's got that you can nitpick and say, could his back be tighter? I guess. I mean, I suppose so, but, you know, side chest is outrageous. Front double front last for the outrage is most muscular is outrageous. You know, lot of size, density, volume, per square inch. Yeah. That sounds like a guru formula. I want to. I want to give a little props to Sunchul Lee who is in six place. I don't know, was this his pro debut on that short? No, he competed in Romania. People left him there. They loved him there, too. He's really good. I mean, this is a good, this is a good front double firm, you know. I think he, he made some great improvements from last year, too. Yeah, he's really good. He's, he's really good and, um, you know, he needs a little bit more muscle-church majority. I think he'll be tighter from behind. Yeah. Really good. I think we're going to see a lot from the sky in the future. If he can show those legs, arms, you name it. He's got it. He's got, uh, you know, get a lot of people would say, right? Yep. Why did front last break? You wouldn't tell there. It looks a little, you know, possibly never on the front double, but he's very, very impressive. Well, I thought the Tampa Pro was a great show. Obviously, we had Carrot's Bajow when, uh, yesterday in the two-off of the day. You might go, I, oh my god. You do do do. Carrot is a great guy because, you know, he's worked his way up from like the ground floor. I mean, I just, I sort of work with my team. He's got talent. I wanted the team universe masters, you know, division to get his pro-card. You know, people write those guys off, you know, and then he just, I said, this guy's got the ability to do well, and he made a lot of improvements over the last couple of days. I called him a wet day off the hour. I have no problems saying what I'd lent him. Yeah. He's a triple nobody. It's, in other words, he's a rocky, he's a rocky. That's it. He won the show convincingly. He arguably, he could have, he could have won Chicago, you know, I thought he was the densest, you know, guy up there, he had, you know, as good if not better condition than the two guys who came above him, they rewarded him here for having the best condition. But when I say triple nobody, I mean, he's, you know, you, what working with him, you know, took him essentially from masters' nationals, right? I mean, if you had, right, when you won the Masters' Nationals, I mean, it was masters like team universe. It was masters. Yeah. Masters team universe. So the point being that if when he won the Masters team universe, if, you know, he had told people, I'm going to win one of the most competitive two-twelfth shows of the year in 2021. People would have laughed at him. Yeah. This is, he, he, he's a lot more impressive than people think, because he has dense muscle everywhere. Yeah. That's a good front of vice update. There's like, you know, crazy V-taper, he's got wheels. You know, he's from the New England area, you know, and Connecticut and Jose, you know, had seen him and Jose told him, so the same thing he was, man, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to devastate some people once. Jose is always on the money. He told me like four months ago he said this guy's winning shows this year. Yeah. Yeah. No. I knew it. I didn't want to get him too excited. You know, you know, how when you, when you were, you know, you know, you don't get to want to like get him too pumped up, because yeah. Yeah. But he's, he's very grounded and I think, you know, he's, he's, he's a really good guy, too. Like, you know, he's, he's just like a very humble, and I think that I'm so happy from that he's going to the Olympia. Like, I, I think I'm happy that he is. Actually, I think all I thought Dave, when he wanted to say, I wonder if Dave will go to the Olympia this year. I don't, that's that portion, but we'll get another variant. You'll be stuck on the right. Well, now they have the gamma variant coming out. So I think that's awesome. Like that. Well, anyway, I want to just congratulate you in Valier and Carruth, Madjo, great job guys. And great job for the whole line. It was really a great show put on by, obviously Tim Gardner. They did a great job. The Tampa Pro is really raised itself up to, I think, a real top-tier level show every single year. And I, I enjoyed, you know, even though I was home, I enjoyed watching the pictures and the videos and all that stuff. So once again, we will do a full wrap up of the entire show on heavy muscle radio on Monday for now on Daypalumbo with Chris Asceto or another RX muscle news update.

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Columbus. Today is Friday, August 17, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If anyone tries to tell you they've got this classic physique line up figured out, I can promise you they have absolutely no clue of what they're talking about. Especially when you try to factor in some of the new blood this year from guys like Steve Lawrence. The rookie phenom is looking like a serious problem five weeks out from his Olivia debut. We'll get the chance to put that crazy x frame on display against the rest of the top dogs in the division. When you look at what he did in the two times we've seen him so far this year, it's not hard to get excited about the sort of future this kid might have in the division. But whether or not he's ready to go toe for toe with the rest of the elite talent in the sport, is something we'll all have to find out real soon. According to Google, the largest free-rumbing populations of Buffalo here in the US live way up there in the bustling metropolis of South Dakota. The early of this week a little birdie told me that we had a rare sighting somewhere up there in one of the small corners of Connecticut. On Monday, the body-building world got a rare update from one of the pro leagues most reclusive superstars in former Olivia contender Evan Centupani, who doesn't seem to be any worse for the wear these days after being sideline with knee surgery earlier in the year. And what we can tell in the pictures, Evan looks at these keeping himself in pretty good shape these days, which has to give you some hope if you're an ox fan that may be possibly, he'll think about jumping into a show sometime here late in the season. At the end of the day, Evan Centupani is probably still one of the top 10 to 15 body-bos in the world right now when he's healthy. So if for some reason he does get bitten by the bug again, I would be on the lookout for this guy to do some serious damage whenever he ends up. Dropping in next. One of the coolest things about the playoff atmosphere in sports is that there's always a team or an athlete who figures out how to take it to a new level that no one ever saw coming. And if you're like me and looking forward to the action at this year's fitness Olympia, then one of the athletes you'll be watching heading into this year contest is energetic third year superstar, Riel Kodar. You have to put in together the best performance of her career back at the Arnold Classic. I think Kodar is heading into the Olympia this year as one of the true dark horse challenges that can go in there and turn this entire thing upside down. Every single time we've seen her, since she's turned pro, it feels like she's been able to add some sort of new elements of her game. And assuming she's made the right adjustments, I think she has an legitimate shot to be a top three finish of this year when the final bell is finally wrong. If we were doing an Olympic style metal count for bodybuilding this year, I think you guys would be surprised at the hardware that team candidates been able to rack up so far. And one of the new faces leading the way for our friends up there from the north is 212 sensation, Mamudal Dara. In my opinion, the rookie phenom has been one of the coolest stories of the year so far in the 212 division, especially when you look at how dominant he was in his win up there at the Vancouver. At the Vancouver Pro, whether or not he's got the firepower to hang with some of these monsters at the top of the class is still probably up for debate. But if he's at 100%, he certainly capable of a top five or better finish of a few things break his way. Speaking of Canadian monsters, you're not going to find too many guys walking around up there in the land of Moussen Moussen, who are scarier than our old buddy in Valier. After finally punching his first ticket to the Olympia a few weeks ago, the 20-something freak show looks like he's making his personal mission to bring back that old school 1990s super grainy look that most guys flat out just don't have anymore. I don't know what the hell he's been doing over there the last year or so, but this kid really seems to have figured out how to get everything clicking lately. So if he hits the ground running in Vegas and he's at 100% he has a chance to be a dangerous threat to the top 10 guys in the world. And that does it. The yet another edition of the Moussen Lundam Warning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro. There's 30-year-in-a-row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polombo and today is Wednesday, September 30th, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the last day of September and I can think of a better way to close out the month than brewing you up a fresh pot of recap Wednesday to get you going to the morning. Let's start out in beautiful sunny San Diego where there was plenty of men's physique action to go around at the border states pro. And swooping into steel a huge win here was India's Buwan Chuan, who caught everyone by surprise. While second place went to the dangerous one at Stephen Chow, who's only gotten better as the year has gone along. Jason Hunnib slid in to third with the solid effort which forced rookie Miron Griffin to settle for fourth in his pro debut. And closing at the top five year was another impressive rookie in Artson, Edyan. We're staying put in California for this one because it's literally in figuratively the hottest spot in bodybuilding right now. Especially if you were lucky enough to be in the vicinity of the Tahoe pro bikini last weekend. The big story here was Casey Sam Cell, who was absolutely dominant from the moment she stepped on stage. And the judges rewarded her with career win number three for her efforts. Ashley caught Wastard turned in another solid performance here, which she comfortably slid into the second place position. While New York's Gabriella Messiahs fore home, the bronze by Angie out, eventual fourth place finisher, Breona Martinez. And round the out one of the strongest top five groups of the season so far was the impressive rookie, hope harbor. I haven't watched the news yet today to hear what the ratings were for last night's presidential debate. But I'm sure the numbers were insane. That being said, I think they both have a hard time winning the popular vote against Rafa Brendeo. On Monday Rafa released progress photos, a few weeks out from his season debut with the Europa pro. And based on some of the early polling numbers it looks like he might be on his way to winning by a landslide. Here's the thing about politics and bodybuilding. Winning and losing are both completely dependent on whether or not you're peaking at the right time. And if Rafa really is starting to hit his stride, it sets the stage and then he'll have to start pulling away from the pack. Sometimes getting the proverbial monkey off your back frees you up in ways that makes everything feel like it's finally falling into place. Just ask my buddy in Valier. Since Ian locked up career win number one for the year, a few weeks ago, he's been training like a complete savage. And the way that his body's responded has been incredible. This is the scary 1990's throwback version of Ian that we've all been waiting for. And when we all projected ahead to what he could be a few years ago, this is the guy who I think we all had in mind. He has a unique look that no one else on that Olympia stage has. As long as he keeps playing his game, I see Ian as a dark horse threat to crack the top 10. And that does it the end of another edition of Musselin the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Friday, August 6th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Happy Friday, ladies and gentlemen. Not only is it the last day of your work week. It's also the Tampa Pro evening, and I want to start today's show off by highlighting two matchups in the men's open and in the 212 that I want you to keep your eyes on, heading into this weekend. I'll start with the men's open where I think we can expect to see fireworks between and Valier, Charles Griffin and Max Charles. These three bulk look like they're coming into the weekend in the best shape of their career, and they're all coming in with a chip on their shoulder because they have something to prove for Ian as a seventh place finisher in the Olympia last year. I think there's a certain expectation for him to show up and take care of business here, even if he's up against the heavy hit or like Charles. And for Charles Griffin after sitting out from most of the full year, being able to get a win here over an athlete like Ian Valier would immediately throw his name into the mix as a top 10 Olympia contender, which comes with its own set of pressures. These two are prime for a head to head collision right now, and in this moment, it honestly does feel like a coin flip for who comes out on top. Two weeks ago at the Chicago Pro, all anyone could talk about was the carnation of Keon Pearson and rightfully so, the kid was amazing and probably even exceeded expectations to a certain degree. But right behind Keon in second and third, there was also a serious battle between Amad Al-Dassani and Carthbazio. And this weekend, these two were about to run back to back, starting tonight. We talked about Amad heading into the year as a potential top 3 contender in this division and up to this point he's looked apart. But for a lot of people, Carthbazio performance in Chicago was even more impressive because of how much better he got from the last time he saw him. And without Keon in this lineup, these two sitting at the top again, well, all the pieces are in place for a major showdown head to head. And considering how much is on the line here, there could be a serious implication for whichever one of these two ends up taking the back seat. If memory serves, we haven't talked about the Europa Pro championships much lately. But now that we're less than two weeks away, I figured I might as well dive right in with this brand new update from Jose Maria Mette, Florida Berry, who will be known from here on out on this show as the Madelman. Because there's no way I'm saying that name over and over again all year long. Who makes the go Madelman confirmed that he was, in fact, planning to compete at the Europa Pro championships despite the fact that he's already qualified for the Olympia, thanks to his win at the Portugal Pro a few weeks ago. If there were any doubts about how good this guy was heading into Portugal, they're long gone now. Because I think he proved once and for all that the rumors about him being a top 10 Olympia guy were all true. And if he shows up and spying even better than he was in Portugal, at that point, I think we'll have to start having serious conversations about where he fits into the hierarchy of this division. One of the other big names in Classic Physique that we're looking forward to seeing at the Europa Pro is former top 10 Olympian David Hoffman, who set to make his season debut there, even though we haven't seen David since his disappointing 12th place finish at the Olympia last year. The reports that I've heard from people close to his team are that he should be coming in significantly bigger and with better condition than we saw at the Olympia as one of the 12th of guys in the division, Hoff has the ability to be overpowering in certain poses when he's dialed in. So if he does end up being as good as people say he will, then it'll be interesting to see if the old theory about the old big man beating the good little man can still hold up in the modern era. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo Reminding You to Always Be True to Your Patience and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low carb clock tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in this species nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition on Dave Palombo. And today we're joined by our 2020 IFVB Tampa Pro Men's Bodybuilding Open. That's a big title. Second place finisher, runner up our good friend Ian Valier, welcome back to the show. Any of a pleasure to have you on the show. Yeah, you're on the road. You're in search of a refrigerator. Yeah, just a inventory. I'll train with one of my buddies and pick it up for it. Just down here for a couple of days and join this. Good gyms here. A true bodybuilder will go in search of a refrigerator and will drive two hours to do so. Which I find rather admirable on your part. This is what you use Melissa to blame. This is kitchen renal's wife edition on this one. This is not me. It's like a big French door fancy one. We're just in the process of redoing our kitchen. So I thought she found one that she really liked. So I was like, well, it's exclusive to come out here and train. So you know, you'll search high and low for a pair of 180 pound dumbbells. She'll search high and low for refrigerator, you know. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. I'll tell you something. I was in the market for a freezer because my garage freezer burnt out. And there's no freeze is to be boy. You know, because all these people are hoarding food. So you can't buy a freezer and lows home depot. And they're all out. Everyone bought them up. Yeah. So I was in a, a lows the other day just picking up some stuff and I just happened to say, hey, I know you guys probably don't have it. You guys have any freezes to like actually, free came in the other day. We have one left. So I was like, what the freezer was you'll have to bought it right then. They delivered it and it was like dented. It was like, it's like, oh fuck that. Like so. I actually had to, they actually said, you know what? Keep the freezer for now and then when we get a new one in. Which could be who knows. And here from now we'll replace the dented one. It's crazy. We love them crazy. Anyway, speaking about crazy times, when you travel to Tampa, which I'm glad they actually like you travel to Tampa, that must be it was that a problem. Just the travel general. I'm looking to find out. No, I mean, as Canadians, we have no issues traveling into the US. It's just the quarantine when we return. But no, it's it was honestly the travel was easier than normal if I even say so. Like the airports were so dead. Right. There was no lines of customs like anywhere. I mean, it was it was awesome. I mean, you know, you had to pick up the litter in terms of seating on the plane. I mean, you know, I paid for first class flight. But I kind of fucking regretted it when I got on the plane. It was empty. I could just sat there anyways. But I mean, yeah, I mean, it was it was it was good traveling all the way there. And on the way back, it was fine. Just, you know, when you come back then onto the Canadian side, they kind of, when you come through customs, they kind of, you know, give you the ropes of, you know, what the processes for the quarantine and make you feel some paperwork and stuff like that. Who's in forcing the quarantine, I knew. I mean, they have the Ottawa, like, so the city, I live in the, they will send. I didn't like, it's not everyone will have it. But they sometimes do send the police by your house just to check if you're home and an abiding by it and they'll call you and stuff as well and just, you know, ask some questions and stuff. But I mean, you know, with how many people you have come in through the border, because Canadians, it's pretty fucking impossible. Yeah. Yeah. So they decide to post to solve a lot of foreign. I think they really use the quarantine more as a deterrent to travel, because for the average person to take, you know, two weeks off work and write these kinds of things, I think it's more just to deterrent than anything. Right. You know, and then just the, you know, the potential of, like, someone might show up and if they might show up, you're fucked, right. You know, it's just the deterrent to, you know, make people not travel or if they do travel, then they stay home. So, you know, that's what I feel pretty much to, because, um, yeah, like, who the hell is why looking up on everyone? And now, I guess probably in five years, you know, they'll be able to track your foot, you know, cell phone, they'll have some kind of computer system that will tell you up. He left the house. Yeah. Well, I mean, there is some kind of COVID tracking thing on iPhones. I've heard that. Yeah. Use it. But I mean, I obviously have all those locations shut off on my phone. I'm trying to be. I've ever once said that wait until in five years, you won't be able to turn it off. You want to have a choice. I'm not going to say it. I'll be getting land. I'll be getting land lines. I'll be about it. Yeah. Man, this is going to be no money, no land line. It's going to be your cell phone. You might just plug into your brain if that goes, you know, it's going that way. That's for sure. Yeah. And probably, it'll be way convenient, just that you're not going to be able to do anything that you shouldn't be doing, you know, go and watch it. Big brother will be there. It'll be a lot harder. That's for sure. Yeah. So, you set up to do this show. Obviously, it's in value ever. It's until the brought up. You traveled alone. Okay? Now, the reason I want to mention this is because a lot of people, you know, are speculated, my self included, you know, what could have gone wrong with Ian's prepping? Didn't look as polished and ready as we expected him to. And I heard you did the food out of the podcast and I heard you talking about pressure and the pressure got to you. And you can give us the whole synthesis of what that entailed. Was it difficult as a bodybuilder flying down alone to tap and not having anyone there to kind of cater to your needs and stuff like that? Yeah. I mean, like at first, you know, the main concerns I have was just like the silly bodybuilder selfish shit, you know, like I was thinking to like, who's going to shave my back? I was going to, you know, do stuff like that. But you know, I thought I was pretty self-sufficient. But you know, when you sit there in a hotel room, like I flew in on Tuesday and you sit there, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, you sit there in your head, you're, you know, sit on Instagram too many hours and you know, you're right, mine starts to run a little fucking rampant, you know, and you don't have someone to kind of like, you know, keep your head space a little occupied. But, you know, maybe if I was a stronger person, I, maybe that's just the thing. I mean, maybe some people would be good with this. I mean, I know plenty of people travel and do shows alone. But for me, this was a first and it was, you know, it was new uncharted territory. And, you know, obviously because it was a lot of height, you know, between Hunter and I, you know, it just the pressure mounted and I sat there and my thoughts for a little too long. And it, it definitely, you know, was, was detrimental to my look and to my confidence and my, how I was on stage for sure, you know. So now, see what you got to do is you got to get a hobby. If you were to have like, if you were like me and you breed snakes, you could have just been looking at snake pictures on Instagram. So it's supposed to body building pictures on Instagram. Well, I mean, I really, like, I brought like some video game stuff and I was like, oh, keep up, but at this point, I had so much anxiety built up. I couldn't even sit still and focused on any. Why is that? Why do you have so much anxiety relating to body building and computing? Do you enjoy it? I don't know. I mean, this is something I struggle with in my life outside of body building as well. But, I mean, definitely especially in body building as, as I progressed in my career, right, you know, and I feel more pressure and not even just from, from fans and stuff like that, but also, you know, myself, I mean, it's, you know, when you've been doing this for so long, you expect to see some return from it in terms of, and it wasn't even, the, the placing is irrelevant. I mean, I've placed worse in shows and been very happy with it. I mean, I did Vancouver for a last year where there was hotty, there was Nathan. I mean, you know, there was an awesome lineup. Everyone looked good. I was for place. I was fucking a static, you know, and it was because I looked great. I could have cared less what my placing was, you know, I just knew that was pretty close to a, you know, 95% 100% Ian. And, you know, I displayed, oh, I want to display the size that I have, the fullness, and I showed that and I was very happy with that. Right. And, you know, that's really what it came down to. And here, I think, you know, after the fact is, you know, the hardest thing was not even, you know, I'd be lying to say I'm disappointed with second place. I mean, you know, obviously I would have liked to win the show and solidify that Olympia and put that Olympia birth. But, I mean, the, the placing is so secondary. So what the look was there, you know. So what, what happened? I mean, I mean, I know you said that, you know, you got it. You said what did you do when you sat doing sabotaging behavior, we under eating, over eating, what, what didn't go right over that. I mean, obviously just the whole, you know, the stress as a whole is going to, you know, I mean, I've even heard you talk, you know, when you were a bodybuilder, you get mad when you get stressed out because you're like, I'm releasing cortisol. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, you, you, you like, not want to feel that, you know, and I was like that for five days straight, like I was having like, like, like, like, like legitimate panic attacks. You know, like, like to the point that it was like debilitating to be, you know, like, this wasn't just where I was like, oh, this sucks. Like, I was like having like extreme, you know, situations, you know, where it was not really pleasant. And then would you get like, do you think you have it? Because I've had anxiety attacks, so I thought it was having a heart attack, you know. Yeah, yeah, you know, I, I, I've definitely been to that point, you know, but it was just yeah, I mean, it was, I didn't do a self sabotage or not whole of the plan or anything like that. I mean, you know, a combination of just lots of stress, you know, and lots of pressure. And then combined with, you know, obviously we made some small mistakes from a, from actual peaking standpoint, you know, which I think just comes down to the, the water manipulation. Mm-hmm. Too much water removal. Is that what happened? Yeah, I mean, we, with me, especially when I get into a certain level of conditioning, we pulled a little too much water like we went from, you know, drinking lots of water on the Thursday and we pulled down to three liters on the Friday and three liters sounds like a good amount. But for me, you know, that three liters, and then when you use a tiny bit of dioretics, I just kept like even Saturday morning, like when the diorics had long worn off at that point, yeah, I was still peeing like every 30 minutes, like full clear peas, like when you take a little diorics and like your peeing, like two trickles and it's like yellow sand, you know. Like I was still having like full like all from, my wife woke up at 70 and Saturday. So I went on stage. I was still like pulling water, pulling water, pulling water, you know, my body just got into this like hyper, you know, excretion and you know, from dioretics, just from, you know, the cutting of water, and you know, I just started to smell just a crazy rate. And I mean, it was just too much I couldn't catch up with it. And then, you know, that obviously induced more panic in my mind. And then, you know, you have you combine those two when it made for, you know, kind of that like cortisoly watery look plus then flatness, you know, do you eat sodium the day of the show normally? Yeah, I was doing like a gram per meal, which is a good. That's a good. That's a good amount. And you're still losing water. That's crazy. Well, I was pissing like crazy. Yeah. I was talking like trickles. Like I'm probably like 20, 30 second piece. Yeah. That's not it. That's crazy. And I could understand why that would put you into a panic too when you started seeing your body completely flattening out, you know, like that. Yeah. I mean, like, you know, and then also the tan thing. I mean, you know, which was a big issue. But I mean, I know if I'd looked awesome and had a bad tan, you know, obviously wouldn't have been as big of an issue. But when you combine the two, you know, obviously it just makes for overall fucking shit look. And, you know, you don't even want to look at the pictures after that. But the tan is much that's one thing that comes down to being alone. I mean, I thought I was dark. I really didn't know. I mean, when I'm in the hotel room, setting pictures to my coach, you know, in those photos, I look fucking dark as hell. I know. And I asked the liquid sunrares people. I was like, am I dark? They're like, yeah, you're good. We did extra coats. Like, everyone said it was dark. So I trust their opinion. I, you know, can only see what I can see in the mirror. And, you know, when you're used to being a fucking ghost like me, and all of a sudden, you're a big dark. You think you're dark, you know? Right. It's not until you're under those hot lights on stage. And you're like, well, I fucked that up. You know? Yeah, I think the key for you should be a Milano tan. Well, which is what I've started now. So like, I mean, for a long time, the tanning places were all closed here, right? No, I know. That's why I said that. So, you know, I've been doing the Milano tan, I've just started doing some bed tanning as well as the. Milano tanning. You know, they have a nice base under there. So, yeah. Yeah. I'll do the combination of that. And then I've got some protein. I've been contact with them. They're going to help me out. But I'm going to start doing like light bases like way earlier. Right. I've started like Tuesday, Wednesday, and do like a couple of coats, rinse them off, a couple of coats, rinse them off and build up like the old school guys used to do and kind of, yeah. Sure, I'm plenty good, not like a buddy you look. Bye bye. My next show comes. So. Yeah, it's it. I was telling me of a base tan is a really, really point. You know, I want your situation. I'm a scene very similar to, you know, I don't know if you remember back, you know, a number of years ago when I was helping Anthony Pascuali before he was going to do the USA. He was probably a shoe into when the USA that year. And five days before the show pulled out and he never competed again after that. And he just he said he just didn't it was too stressful for me to enjoy it. Even though we look right and he had to visit to probably go to the Olympia level. It just was too much for me. Couldn't handle it. I mean, are you at that level or is it just, are you just still trying to find that balance where you still, I love body building, but I got to just find how I can not get so stressed out of the show. I mean, I wish I knew the answer to that to be frank. I mean, you know, like obviously, you know, as of late there's been more days than less where, you know, I'm really like am I enjoying this. It's really hard to, to tell if I am, you know, you know, obviously I still love training. I still love, you know, the essence of body building and the roots of it. And that's something I have loved and I will always love. But you know, the actual like competing aspect that, you know, as the farther I get into it, you know, and I don't want to like, it's tough to say because like, I don't know if it's like, the stress makes me not enjoy it. And that's just me being a fucking chicken shit or it's like, and I need to work on that or it. You know, I don't really know what end this needs to be to work on, but, you know, at the end of the day, I do love training and body building and trying to get my physique to the best it can be in the look that is rendered on stage. But, you know, I definitely need to work on, you know, getting my mind set and alleviating some of that pressure on myself and making it an enjoyable experience because like at the end of the day, like if you're not enjoying it with a fucking even doing it for you, I mean, it's not like I'm making fucking $30 million a year doing this. Like I mean, I make a living and I, you know, for a mid, you know, upper mid to your body builder, I do quite well, but it's, you know, it's not enough that to impact my life in the way it has, you know, in my mind state of mind lately, it's like, it's a very gray area. You know, you have the kind of a zik and I'm not, I don't want to, obviously, you have a real Olympia level physique, but you have the kind of a zik that if you did with like Rich Piano, did you probably make way more money just doing YouTube videos and doing a channel and coaching people than you ever would just from competing. That's the kind of, so like, sure from a, from a money standpoint, yeah, absolutely, you're right. I mean, you know, and that's, it's something I've thought about. I mean, you know, obviously I, at this point, I feel like I'm deep enough in this that I owe it to myself to, you know, try and work through the issues I'm having from the mental side of it and at least, you know, get the most I can out of my physique. You know, if it comes to a point where it's like, okay, it's been two, three, four seasons and I'm not improving or I'm progressing, then yeah, obviously I'm, you know, going to have to, you know, take a change of course here. But I don't feel I'm at that spot, yeah. Yeah. I'll give you a good analogy and I'm not trying to talk you out of competing because I think I think you're a great competitor. I think that you can go far if you want to, but I was in medical school, okay, and I was in my third year. I had the third year to finish and I had fourth year, which was kind of like just like, you know, rotations in the hospital. I know that I would have been a good doctor. I wasn't, I was intelligent enough. I was one of the top guys in the class, but I didn't like it. I didn't realize that I didn't like working with just pop writing prescriptions for pills for people for to treat symptoms. I wanted to do something beyond that, but I knew I needed that knowledge base that I got from medical school to be able to do whatever it was I was going to do in the future. And obviously, you know what I do now. And obviously, I've used all the knowledge I have that I learned in school. So it was a mean to an end. So for me, quit, I felt like I was letting down so many people. If I quit medical school, my dad, you know, my family who thinks I'm just going to be a doctor and all the people around me who's like, what the hell is this guy quitting for? He's like, you know, he, he, he, this is it comes so easy for him. But I knew that it wasn't something that I wanted to do. So it was a tough decision, but it wasn't. But once I left, I felt like a sense of relief. And all of a sudden, now, all these other opportunities, I opened themselves up to me, because now I was pouring my, what I enjoyed doing, you know, was, which is the health and keeping people healthy and up. And I started applying it towards that. So sometimes, you know, you go to a certain point and you start, you hit a wall and you say, you know what, even though everyone expects me to go with certain places, that's just not my future. Now, I'm not saying that's your case, but there's nothing wrong with that, you know, that's wrong and out. And I mean, you know, I, there's 100% validity of that. And I mean, this is obviously a conversation Melissa and I have had, you know, you know, there is a reality that that is, as obviously crossed my mind, you know, that it's like, you know, maybe there's not enough enjoyment in this and I should, you know, take steer the, steer the ship somewhere else and, and, you know, kind of veer off into another avenues within this industry. But yeah, I mean, I, I'm not 100% there yet. I mean, you know, there's still some things just, you know, because of the time I put into this that I, you know, these want to have accomplished just to feel at ease with myself. And, you know, after that, I think I could, you know, hang it up and, you know, make career changes within the industry and feel a lot better about it. It's good though that you, you made that, that intellectual decision that you just did because, you know, now the pressures will often you because now you're saying to yourself, you know, what it doesn't matter, I don't have to win the Olympia. As soon as I don't enjoy the same, I'm going to stop. But now, now you'll see you'll enjoy it more and you'll do better because now you remove the pressure that it happened to me at some point. I realize you know what, probably not going to turn pro. Stop, take the pressure off yourself. Go to these shows, enjoy yourself, have fun, joke around backstage. And as soon as I did that, I, so many more opportunities. I got, like, guest closing every weekend. You know, I just, it changed my, the persona. I, I stopped being so serious about it. And I said, you know what, let me have fun with this. And I'll take it as far as it goes. And then when I can't, when I feel like I can't get better than I was last year, I'll move into another avenue of bodybuilders. I still love bodybuilding. You know, I didn't want to leave bodybuilding. I just, I knew that, all right, you know, the delusions of being Mr. Olympia are gone and now. And so I'm, I'm not going to put that kind of pressure on myself. And, you know, you guys on the food, podcast, we're talking about Luke Sandow and how he kind of felt the same way. And it's, it's training point. We say how, you know, he hated, you know, the pressure was just so much. He put on himself. It was almost like when people expected him to do well, he almost didn't want to compete. Because he hated that pressure. And he could have been a guy, you know, I really wish he was still with us. I do miss him. You know, he could have been a guy who could have done anything. He could have just been a guy who had his own YouTube channel and just trained and met a monster, you know, guy, because that's what he enjoyed doing, just training. And never competed again. And you know, what he would have made tons of money and would have been super popular. But I think he was afraid that he was going to let down people and that he had to like prove himself in a sense on stage. And that puts so much pressure on him, combined with obviously he had some, some mental issues that he even admitted himself. And he couldn't handle it. And so it's important. I think, and that's why I'm bringing this up and I think in this point, I'm not saying that you fit that category. You're not, you're not in that category. But people should understand that are watching this. There's no, there's no half-two or has to do what makes you happy and gives you pleasure. That's the take home message. Yeah, and then as we also discussed a lot of people, and that's I think really where my mindset was, unfortunately, going into Tampa. You know, I felt like I had to win or I was going to be a disappointment. I had this image in my mind that I thought people expect me to come out looking like fucking Jay Cutler. And that because I hadn't posted any pictures and if I didn't, I was going to be a disappointment. You know, I put people expect me to come out and make, you know, hunter look like a child next to me from a size perspective. And there was just so many things that was just, you know, running through my mind constantly and I started to just really doubt myself, you know, and then that's when the pressure really started to amount them out and out and you a band in your own game. At that point, I was doing it from a negative avenue, right? I mean, like I was I was looking at it from the perspective of not doing it for myself, but doing it to appease other people. And then it just completely sucked the life of the joy of it for me, you know? Right. Right. No, and it's a good point and I think people need to understand that and sometimes having this little epiphany or awareness for yourself will change your the whole course of how you compete also. You might actually have a better attitude. I mean, I was thinking George Forman before he lost the Muhammad Ali negative, you know, very, you know, like didn't talk to people, just angry all the time. After Ali when he makes the comeback, he's everyone's grandpa, you know, and everyone loved him. And he actually wins the world championship back at it. You know, an unbelievable old age, you know, that no one ever got impossible. So he changed his whole reality by just changing the way he was thinking about things. And I think that that's a very powerful message right there saying that, you know, anyone could do, you got to change how you you view what you're doing because otherwise, you know, you're not going to get the best out of yourself. So just being yeah, absolutely. Yeah. So anyway, having said that, moving forward obviously, I know you still want to get through the limpiest stage. So what's the goal? No, you hit the nearer pro. What do you wait closer to the limpier and hit one of those later shows? Or do you just pack it in for the year? What's your mindset? Yeah, no, I mean, I'm in shape, but I'm keeping, you know, the foot sent me on the gas. As if I'm ready to do New York or I'm ready to do Chicago or the Spain show, you know, I know they made the Spain shows top three's there for Olympic balls. You know, right now, I mean fourth and point. So even if I show up at, you know, any of these shows and come fifth, qualify for the Olympic. Right. I mean, that would guarantee me that would put me a 13 points and first place right now is 10. So I mean, even a fifth place at New York or Chicago or any of those, I would be almost guaranteed. I mean, I haven't placed worse than fourth and quite a while. So I mean, I would feel very confident that, you know, showing up at any show no matter what show it is that would secure me in a limpier placing. It's just picking, you know, the right show and the right time and, you know, making sure my head is right before I go into it. So I can actually, you know, enjoy the experience somewhat, you know, and go into, you know, leave that and go into the Olympia with a good headspace as well, right? I personally, if I were you, I would do New York and you should win that show. And I'm not trying to run that round, you know, seriously, you have to take four in the games. You have to take two in that show. You should go in there. I don't give a f. I'm in shape. There's nothing I could do this screw myself up. I'm going to go there. I win. One of the great things I love about Jay Cutler and that I admire about him and there's nothing people that I admire in our industry. There's two types of champions I found in our industries. There's the ones like Jay Cutler where you ask him who's going to win the show. He doesn't even think he doesn't even think he has so much confidence in himself. He has no self-doubt in himself. He knows that if he puts his mind anything he puts his mind to. He's going to accomplish that. That's a rarity. I mean, that is just, and then you have like a rarity callman, which is almost like a, it's like an innocent like just naive a today almost like I don't, I just love training. It doesn't matter. This is not stressful because I just want to, I'm living my dream. I'm just a gummet train. I don't care nothing bothers him. 14 back surgeries. I get to go to the gym tomorrow. You're not the rarity callman either. We would fit into the Jay Cutler, the intense, intense mindset type of thing. But you got to just change your mindset. But I always found that Jay was so mature, even at a young age, even when he was 19, he had that maturity and I'm like man, how does that come from? I don't know if it's just genetic or environmental, but it is admirable. Now that you look back, I mean, seeing that what you're going through now at that level, there's a lot of data. Jay from a, you know, looking as a champion as I mean, basically, you know, the epitome of what every bodybuilder wants to be. I mean, you know, from a business standpoint to a mindset standpoint, you know, to everything how he's conducting himself is career. It's everything we could all hope to be, you know. You know, and I hope that I can get my head spaced, you know, even 20% as good as Jay's was in his career, you know. So, you know, it's, yeah, but I mean, looking at that, it's obviously something that's extremely admirable in that, you know, we could all, you know, aim to shoot for for sure. Well, you know what, look, you look great on stage. And I think people just have such high expectations that, you know, no, in their right mind would say, you didn't look good. You were in shape, you were shredded. I mean, you were a little flat like you said your tan wasn't great, but, you know what? Also, but one thing that I noticed was you could tell you weren't having a good time up there. Yeah, I think sometimes you have to fake it even when you don't look good, you know. Yeah, I know guys, you just look terrible, but fake it so well on stage that they would win. It bounces you, you know. Yeah. I mean, by the night show when I have my tan fix and the pressure was off a bit, you know, and I ate and I looked, you know, significantly better, you know, my mind was a little better going into it. But, you know, the thing is that at that point, like after I looked at the photos, and, you know, for anyone that didn't hear the food at podcasts, to be, and that's why I took my Instagram down for about like four hours. I mean, yeah, I was going to get that. Yeah, I was just, you know, my phone, it's like, I mean, it's easy for someone to say, I mean, I know fucking Trigeli and these people were like, you know, they're talking about and being like, well, why just don't look at your Instagram, it's like, it's fucking easier said that you know, like, all the time, you know, I'm talking to my coach, I'm talking to my wife, you know, I'm talking to my mom, I'm talking to my buddies, you know, to my friend Julien, stuff like that, like, Instagram's just there, you know, and people are DMing me, it's like, you know, it's, it's the only thing from that, my phone was just fucking blown up and it was so much negative to me about, you know, how I looked in these things, and it was just, I needed to just clear my mind for a few hours. I don't blame you, you happen this, can I? You know, yeah, and I do myself, if I had just deleted the app, I have two cell phones, like, I would have just picked up the other phones, so I pulled on that. Okay, it's, I mean, I would have just re-added the app, I mean, I need to just, because if you disconnect your account, it doesn't let you redo it for like six hours or something. You got to pull a chy green in, you have to not pay your cell phone bill, and then when you get to the show, you can't talk, you can't communicate with anyone, and then you have no worries. I'm trying to keep my credit score good. I didn't even know what they're about to say. You should just tell, yeah, I'm elicit, if you're listening, Melissa, if this turn is phone off, call off ATV, turn it off when you get to the show, and then you can turn it back on after this should the night show's over, you know? Yeah. So I mean, that's what that was just where my mind was there. I mean, I was like, I just need, you know, to focus on what I can improve for the night show. First, let's rinse it up my fucking tan fix. Two, I'm flat as a pancake, so me and Patrick, you know, we put it together planned for eating, get some fluid back in, me, that kind of stuff. Then after that, it was three, Kate, you need to get your head back to the game. You're posing like you have absolutely no interest to being there. Yeah. So let's, you know, get your mind and get a little more excited. You look a little better. Let's act like you, you know, you're happy to be there or you're fighting for a title. So, you know, I tried to control what I was trying to control and keep my mind off my phone as much as I could. You know, I mean, it's called what you want to call it. I mean, but you know, that's kind of where what I need to do for those few hours, you know, and it, you know, I look better for the night. I'm for sure. I mean, you know, me looking at it, I still think I was 70% of what I know. I can, can be, especially where my physique is right now. I mean, 70 might even be an overstatement. You know, but it's, which was just the hardest thing to just look at it after the fact. But that's a good thing. I'll tell you why because you know what, you know that if you weren't your best, you probably would have been Hunter. Okay. I, I can say, I'll say it. I'll say it. You would have been, I mean, I don't want to say anything to take that away from Hunter. No, I still, he'd be, I think he's showing up at his best. But I'm saying is I think your best is better than his best right now. I'm not saying for five years now, won't be, but, but, but, but, but right now it is. Okay. Yeah. And that's fair. I mean, and that was, you know, that was the hardest thing for me to see. I mean, the hardest thing for me to see wasn't, you know, that my conditioning was, because I was flat, like you couldn't see my glutes. It was more just to see the flatness and like, you know, the muscularity that I know I have looked nothing compared to what I know it is. You know, and that was the hardest thing when you trained so hard. You know, and for me, like, I'm on a guy that like, you know, is like overly like concerned about like having pretty shape or, you know, that having fancy posing or I just want to be fucking cute. Yeah. I just want to think it's kind on stage. And I want to hit a most muscular and I want to crush people and I want to hit side chests, you know, show my density and, you know, I want to show that from those poses that really show like the thickness and the side of those ones, you know, I want to come in be hard and grainy and big and just that's it. Like I don't even care everyone's pretty. Yeah, I'm going to find fuck, you know, I just want to be big and, and, and huge and that's people that look at me and just do what the fuck is that. And then I saw the photos. I'm like, I look small, you know, like compared to, you know, photos I had from two days out, I know three years out, you know, I was like, this isn't even a shadow of what I am from a size perspective. You know, when you train so hard to build all that muscle, it's like, that was the biggest thing in the shot in my confidence was just seeing the muscularity. And, you know, I know, particularly for me, I mean, we, I think we've talked about this another interview before. My physique when I'm flat versus full is like two completely different physiques. Absolutely. I know some guys like Bumstedt, I brought Bumstedt into the Olympian, zero grams of carbs to try and make way to, you know, keep as a team of firm as, as kidney issues at minimum. And he looks the exact fucking dead. Yeah, you're right. Look, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like he doesn't look any different when he's flat versus full. It's like a 2% difference. Yeah. We're on like a 300% difference. Right. So when I saw that level of flat and it's been how much it affected my physique, that's really what like after the pre-judging, like just I was like, flop my life. I looked so like, you know, that really hurt from my confidence standpoint. Yeah. But, you know, like after the show when I've got some Bumbec in me and my physique started to, you know, show signs of life again, you know, that definitely, you know, re-ignited it in me, you know, to know that it is there. It's just, you know, it's just timing it all right, right? Here's what you're going to do. Okay. You're going to do this Spain show. You're going to go out two weeks early and you're going to stay with Dory and Yates because he wasn't staying and he's going to watch over you. And he mentally and physically for two weeks, I'm going to give a Dory and a job. I didn't even ask him. And he's going to drive you to the show together and you're going to win the show. That's how you get a Dory. So this year, go contact Dory and he might be somewhere, you know, meditating somewhere and over the ocean or something like that. But you'll find him say, Dory, I need to come out there two weeks before I stay with you. So I keep my head in straight. He'll keep it straight. He lives in Spain. He like Marbellar's something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Repurf. What a great thing. That was the last time I was in Spain. I won that show. That's when I qualify for the United States. That same show in Spain. So, I mean, there's obviously, you know, definitely potential of that being a show for me to do. You know, I'm about a hundred percent sure on what the protocol is for traveling to Europe right now. I mean, I think as Canadians, we have it the best. Yeah, you do have it. Do you be going away? You want? Yeah, you have no pain to our forethought. You want to get one. Yeah. So, I mean, that's definitely a possibility. But yeah, I mean, it's, you know, anything's a strike in this. Maybe we'll do New York. I mean, you know, I've never done New York and it's back in Tampa, which is, you know, familiar territory, which is there. Sure. You know, so that's, you know, something I would feel more comfortable with despite how the last show played out. Yeah. Chicago, I feel like it's probably not going to happen. But I mean, you know, maybe that could be on the docket. But yeah, I mean, if I'm going to do something, it's going to be New Yorker. It's going to be Spain. Okay. Well, good luck. You'll keep us updated. Thank you for being so open and frank with us and having this discussion because I think it's going to be helpful to other people too. And that's really why I wanted to have it. It wasn't just to get, I kind of knew what happened to you. But I wanted to people to understand the mindset and how, you know, you have to go about these things. And sometimes things just don't work out the way you plan. And now you use this information and you make yourself stronger and smarter and wiser and you bring it back to even better than you anticipated, you know, prior. And I think we're going to see you on in the Olympia stage this year. And I think you're going to do real well. I have a good time. I appreciate that. All right. Now, he's that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With Brought You By Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for E-invalier. We'll see you next time.

=== I'm a fan of them to wear The golden face I can't you pop my hair I'm a little thought Still being shy, still being shy I'm a little thought I'm a little bit cut and cut I love me, I want to see you being shy Still being shy I'm a little thought I'm a little bit hurt I want to be her I'm a little bit hurt Let the party ride Put your ears on Everybody just dance We can't divide rocks Fashion is like my own heart They call me real food I walk in the front of the bottle Shake it split on the body too The world got the party with me You too, oh I'm gonna get you wet I'm gonna make you sweat I like you all forget She's being shy, still being shy I'm a little bit cut and cut I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt Let the party ride I got so stuck in the room Scab with a breath full and go Get a bottle I got run nights on the note And it's about to be a champagne My soul Baby girl, you look legit Come to my table and take a sip Open wide cause we're sprayin' Fixing bottles ain't paid for seeing it I'm gonna get you wet I'm gonna make you sweat I like you all forget No, I'm gonna get you wet I'm gonna get you wet I got you all forget She's being shy, still being shy I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt I'm a little bit hurt She's being shy, still being shy I'm a little bit hurt I'm gonna get you wet I'm a little bit hurt Why do you beat the old? Now I want you to grab your bottle What a bottle Now take a sip Check that bottle, let me make it! Check that bottle, let me make it! Check that bottle, let me make it! Check that bottle, let me make it!

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA PIXX Road, there's 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Tuesday, August 4th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Remember a week or two ago when I was talking about Phil Heath and I said, where there's smoke, there's fire. While ladies and gentlemen, Phil might be trying to throw gasoline on the flames. Late last week Phil released a clip from a shoulder session where he looked a whole lot like someone who might be strongly considering making a run at his eighth Olympia title. Just to be clear, I'm not saying that he is, I'm just saying that it seems like he might be, or maybe I'm completely wrong, and this is just Phil throwing smoke signals. In the pantheon of things you can be, as a pastry pal white guy in the summer, walking around jacked up in tan is right there at the top of the list. That's why I have to take my hat off the Brett Wilkins for being an example to the frail pale young man of America by showing them what they can be when they grow up. What I understand, Brett's getting himself dialed in for a guest posing at the NPC Colorado soon, where I'm told that he'll be joined by none other than Puntula Brater. Right now, I'm not miscleo, but if I look into my crystal ball, tells me that Brett isn't doing all this work just to get himself ready for a guest posing. And since he's already in striking distance, I'd keep an eye out for him to jump into a pro League event at some point within the next month or so. There's so much craziest going on in Chicago right now that it's beyond the scope of what I can cover in this segment. All you need to know is that last week Chicago was one of a handful of cities in the country that had federal officers dispatched to join the local law enforcement to help dwell some of the violence. But if I can figure out a way to get myself on the ballot for the general election, I could save our taxpayers a whole lot of money just by sending Sean Smith out to the Wendy city because this guy looks like a one man army according to reports, Sean and his team are targeting the Chicago pro as his first event of the season where they believe he has a shot to contend for an Olympia qualification as far as the gym pictures go. Sean is in the Victor Richards Hall of Fame because this guy looks like a complete alien when he's at his best in on his own. But the real trick now is getting some of that to translate to the stage because that'll be the ticket to the big show. Waiters and gentlemen, I have three words for you here. Here comes Kion last week my phone blew up from facts from everyone and their mother after Kion went on social media to announce that he was officially starting his first prep of the 2020 season outside of George Pearson. I don't think there's another athlete in the division who's generated as much hype and interest as Kion has this year and understandably so. The kid made it to the Olympia stage last year in the classic physique division and he was still so wet behind the years it wasn't even funny. There's no doubt that Kion is a pound for pound one of the most genetically gifted young athletes in bodybuilding right now. But at the end of the day this kid still has to deliver. So young man the balls in your court now the world wants to see what you're going to do with it. And that does it yet another edition of muscle in the morning on day polymer reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

This is Trevor Gritz and I'm here with I-FB Pro call it Nelson for the second part of our insulin explosive videos series. So in part one we discussed that if you're over a hundred fasting blood glucose, you're going to want to take some mitigation strategies. So the first thing we recommended is you know, try just prioritizing your carbs around your workout, minimize stimulants, try to minimize stress, improve sleep. Luckily if you're a young guy who hasn't been abusing carbs stimulants too long, you'll most likely be able to get your fasted blood glucose under a hundred just by doing some lifestyle changes. However if you make the necessary lifestyle changes you're being smart with your diet if you're being cognizant of your stimulant usage or stress and your fasting blood glucose numbers are still high we recommend getting further blood work testing. So that's where first going to do we're going to talk about what to get tests in the blood work and what all those numbers mean. So the first thing you should get tested is insulin levels. So call that talk just about what exactly that is and what numbers you would want to see. So you're looking at how much insulin in your body is putting out. So those normally range in the United States between two and about one thing right? So in somebody that has this predisposition of this prediabetes you might see those levels high because the body is working too hard because the cells are resistant. So that's a common denominator which sounds counterintuitive. Now if you do see that the insulin levels are really low you could be on your way to type one diabetes. Type two diabetes starts with higher than normal in some levels. Just make sure that's clear and that's the reason why is because the body is working too hard and it's trying to keep the blood sugar down and it can. Okay so the second thing you should be tested for is you should get tested is C peptide. So call that charges with C peptide. C peptide is very important. That is showing the body's ability, the endogenous insulin production. Okay so those two tests kind of correlate some extent. So for example I have no C peptide. Okay so C peptide is usually between 0.8 and 3.85. So minus less than 0.1 sorry for me okay I don't make any insulin. So when you see the C peptide low this can be confusing on some levels too. If you see the C peptide low then the body is not naked much in insulin okay so if the C peptide is in normal range then your body is still producing insulin and you're in a good place. You're in the place where that you know if you're fasting sugar is a running higher and you're making a good C peptide you got hold your beta is still functioning it's looking good. When you got to get concerned is when that C peptide starts to get lower. So if you have a low C peptide and very high in some levels eventually what will happen is you'll have a low C peptide that's not going to change but the insulin levels are going to come down where you don't make any more in some. So the third thing you're wanting to get tested is your hemoglobin A1C so call it tartus above that. So the hemoglobin A1C is if we find one of the gold standards I mean actually used this two diagnosed so this is very important and this is one that you really want to listen to. Pre diabetes is a hemoglobin A1C and what is looking at is the life of the red blood cell. The red blood cell lists for 120 days so what they do is they take a hemoglobin red blood cell A1C and they're looking at how much glucose has collected on top of the red blood cell so it's it's telling a huge story okay 5.7 to 6.4 is pre diabetes again 5.7 to 6.4 we're diagnosing it so if you come up with a 5.6 I'm worried I'm like a person that's like okay red blood okay so that means you're in a situation where the beta cell is starting to fit. Once you get to 6.5 the beta cell usually is only functioning at 50%. So then if you're the higher the A1C the more risk for micro and macro complicated that's a best-ular complication so there's a big A1C scale that will put up so that you'll see what I made because each of these numbers equate to a three-month average so for example if your A1C is a five year average glucose is about 90 for 90 days which is excellent okay so I would want to have an A1C of 5 I have a 5.3 by the way so I'm not doing too bad but and I'm a type one but yes so that's really important is to check that A1C it is a diagnostic criteria now so it's important and then there's also some specific type one diabetes tests you are getting to answer if your type one diabetic you'd also want to get these tested the first one is the dad 65 antibody right so these are this is what happens in type one diabetes it isn't auto immune disease and it happens at any age that's why we don't call it juvenile diabetes anymore if you have type one in your family and I say that because my body was type one and there is this kind of broadest area component but then I find that people what the hell auto big at that type one diabetes that crazy world of we live in now we're seeing it actually increase in type one diabetes and then we find that 30% of our type two's are actually type ones and we call it type one and a half so if you have any concern and you're on the younger side and you're just after everything you're doing you're doing the things that you're trying to get that fast and sure to down yet it's not happening and you're just something's wrong you know you're getting this kind of the symptoms of diabetes which is extreme thirst, excessive eating and losing weight and losing muscle you're basically body sitting itself okay that's when you want to get these dad antibodies it's again 65 antibody that's the particular antibody that starts attacking the beta stuff and if that's high so for example mine is actually I'm looking at my lab work it's one end up mine's in let's see mine's our 72 they should be less than five guess what I'm a type one there's no question so anything over five okay is it concerned mine's 72 so my antibodies are absolutely firing and attacking my beta cell every single day god help us find a cure for auto databases but that's one you want to test for type one so the second type one diabetic specific blood work bio marker you'd want to test for is your isolate cell antibody screen yes so that one mine for example is 2.9 it should be less than 0.8 so I am testing positive for yet another the isolate cell you guys isolate cells a later hand of the beta cell that's making my insulin so I'm having it come from different angles there are actually people that have different types of type one diabetes that don't actually have the organic antibodies what they have these isolate cell antibodies so either way they're not producing the right amount of insulin to maintain their blood sugar levels me unfortunately I have different antibodies firing so I have in I've a worst case scenario so I don't have any info production some production is better than that so the last type one specific blood work bio marker you want to test for is your isolate i8 to antibody screen so it's interesting I'm actually in the right range for this mine's not high so I guess that's a positive but the other cure cells try I'm gonna I'm not doing so well because I'm not making an insulin but it should be less than 0.4 and mine actually is so I've never tested positive for this particular antibody so if you have all three I guess I would say that you're at a worst stage in auto antibody hormones but that might be another reason why I I most type ones and autoimmune disease is like to come in three so I never have celiac I didn't get how she motors even how she motors is a thyroid condition the thyroid antibodies are attacking the thyroid so I'm lucky in that nature so those are the three though in particular that you want to have looked at if you have any concern that this might be more sinister than just some auto regulation of your blood sugar so now we're going to get into all the different types of insulin so call it as an talk about the half life and when you want to take it so the first thing I'm going to talk about is hemologue. So this is the try to true and I think everybody knows hemologue right I mean hemologue you guys these come in pens now this is kind of the preferred way of giving insulin I think is it's just easier they come in these little pen devices and then you just put out a pen needle right here on the top and that you change every day and many times you take it as fun so hemologue now all these insulin like to come concentrated you'll notice that they come in you 100 and you 200 but just concentrated and does demand action so you don't want to pull it out from a syringe anymore because sometimes these insulin are concentrated we'll talk about we'll talk about that when we get into some of the basal insulin um hemologues these when we talk about these rapid acting phones are all very very similar in their action of onset and I want to almost put them not to talk over your children and the long-winded but this one is one of the faster of your rapid acting insulin it starts in about 10 to 15 minutes it peaks in about 60 to 90 minutes and then it's out of the body and about 45 hours so you're really looking at that peak action in the first 90 minutes. Do you want hemologue is the one that everyone's using pre-workout and then taking all the intricate cards and essentially yes that's I would say not very many diet bed XR using hemologue but it's all the bodybuilders do these pre-workout case the next one we're going to talk about is a pedra right so a p-drop p-drop is an interesting this is kind of with the Sanofi's second launch to Lantis which is interesting because they have one of the best top-selling basal insulin on the market they couldn't get this one any market action really this doesn't have a lot of so p-drop actually is a faster so really goes in line of a fast action this is actually a little bit faster than hemologue this one has a start time about five to ten minutes and peaking in about 16 to 90 again and out of the body in about four hours so this one is a little bit more rapid I take and this one this is my far-fast as long and what we're trying to do by speed is just mimicking physiology a little bit better by the speed and action of the insulin so there's a p-drop so that two more to go through the next one is going to be novolog so good old novolog okay a lot of people take novolog because novolog is the novonortist version of um hemologue but in an action time you really go a p-drop hemologue and novolog novolog really starts in almost 15 to 20 minutes and it peaked again in about 90 minutes and it's a little bit it has a little bit of a longer tail okay so it's still a rapid action insulin but it's the slowest of the rapid um again still a premium insulin still one that many people use in the body of the world and obviously what a type one would use in for meal time itself and now finally the new kid to the block of present I know this is the one called as super excited about yeah this is before we talk about a fresco though there's bias which came out in response to almost the rapidity of a fresco bias came out Canada first trailer this was uh and everybody in the US was trying to get their hands on it bias starts in two and a half minutes you guys so it's in the body extremely quick okay there's no 10 to 15 minutes waiting I mean 20 and a half minutes and the peaked time in about 60 minutes and it's out of the body about four hours okay so finally you have kind of be what's considered a fresco which is actually the most bio identical of all the rapid action insulin so when you think about injecting insulin you guys it's in a hexomere it's in several molecules and those molecules have to be injected into the substitute which is your fat tissue and has to get into the peripheral there's a keyword peripheral bloodstream right it never really goes to the portal circulation which is the liver and remember when we talked about the liver in the first series the liver is constantly pushing out glucose so this is why Ali Ali I mean I have to get a credit on this one he did a whole thing on on a frozen because he feels that this could be a very landmark rapid action insulin so what you're doing is you're actually putting in a cartridge of insulin on units okay it comes in four eight and 12 units and these little cartridges go inside this little device and then all you're doing is and that's how you take your insulin and now not only is it not an injection it's very convenient it's actually shutting off the alpha cell which makes scoooka down so there's less fat gain within a fresco then there would be with an injected insulin just by the nature of delivery and it's being more bio-identical to the body it's in the body in less than one minute it peaks in 45 minutes and it completely clears from the body in 90 minutes clear it's gone in a four unit cartridge and in a 48 units the 48 units it doesn't last any longer than three hours so you're reducing the risk of hyperboicemia could be it's this is no one's even talking about this I mean is I am I'm using it that's that's the insulin I don't use I don't use injected insulin this is by far the most unique delivery system and probably the best way to deliver insulin just by nature of the way the lungs absorbs it and the blood vessel and how much fat scalary there is in the lungs to the body well pretending that a menolide in a retocobota you guys heard it here for a super say to be delivering this groundbreaking information for you guys now charge us with the basal insulin before you get into all the different types talk about the difference between basal insulin and all the different forms of insulin you just spoke about so what we just spoke about you guys was a rapid acting meal time insulin so in a person with type one diabetes they can't control their insulin and basal alone because a basal insulin is just a flat insulin that sits in the background for 24 hours everybody makes insulin every hour everybody you need insulin every single minute every second of your life but when you eat you need what a call of bolus of insulin these are all bolus insulin do you eat a particular output of insulin for every single thing you eat everything everything so that even includes fats and proteins if people don't oftentimes think about so it's not just your cars protein can convert to glucose and even your fat can be delivered to boost glycerone at some level they raise your total daily dose of insulin so those are all your rapid acting insulin necessary to control glucose meals basal insulin is extremely important to fix the fasting blood sugar and to give you back that homeostasis and in my theories if you can give a basal insulin again it just brings your bottom what your baseline blood sugar down a little bit and gives the blood the pateous cell a little bit of rest because it's working for 24 hours day give it a break and it's giving it a break by giving it a basal nasal insulin so now talk to us about the different types of basal insulin and half life's peak times things like that so let's start with you know everybody is talking about lances like lances was the number one was not anymore was the number one basal insulin on the market and this can't to market around 1999 2000 okay so this is this rubble in chenized revolutionized type 2 diabetes and it's going to continue to revolutionize as back then they started to realize how you can get insulin to tight teeth they actually thought that you couldn't get insulin to type 2 diabetes now think about where we are now it's like they're giving in to all of them because there's no other way to control their beta cell because their beta cell failed because they were so silly to think that these people could just survive on pills that weren't controlling the blood sugar and they didn't realize that now today's world is beta cell preservation ask any top end odor like we got to preserve the beta cell and how do we do that insulin actually that's how we do that so lances is the tried insurer rantus unfortunately I'm going to tell you guys the truth about lances they say the 24 hour insulin but we know better now the they didn't really change the package insert but it actually starts in about one hour and then it doesn't have a peak but people that know lances and the type one world will know that I'm listening to me you won't notice this of your type 2 you won't notice this even if your body going to take you in but it has a bit of a peak at about six to eight hours it's flat but it about six hours it comes up a little bit and then it comes back down and then it's out of the body and about 16 to 18 hours so I have been one to usually split that and I see a better just the way it stacks on each other gives you a better a few a ladder profile and that's what you want more flat and forget about so it's been you know historically given once a day lances but if you think about it it doesn't really last that full 24 hours as long as you see do you want to talk with any other base of funds or insulin or do you think what I think that lances now has been replaced like no one orders came up with 11 air and 11 air ball short it's about 14 to 16 hour insulin starts in about one to two hours and again that does have a peak and that is suggested to split twice a day so if you're using 11 air out there you should split that in front then after that they realize that we need a 24 hour insulin so fantasy came up with a genius idea of concentrating lances they took lances and they squeezed the molecule they made it smaller so if the depot a depot is like how much you inject this is if this is lances this little circle this is to jail if much less liquid then concentrated to you 300 so one unit on a U 100 syringe is actually three units they basically and they concentrate at the end so let me keep it simple by concentrating and you're injecting less liquid in your body and it dissipates over 36 hours so now we know that we had the drawbacks of lances now to jayoh came out to jayoh is a 36 hour insulin sits much flatter and it's giving you about that 24 hour profile so to jayoh was kind of like wow now we finally sitting with a more predictable basal insulin I like that one much better than lances and much better than 11 air then what I consider basically one of the most innovative basal insulin by novernortis was tristiva and tristiva took what to jayoh did used it in a U 100 or U 200 which is just a concentration and gave you 42 hours so that doesn't mean you don't sit every other day I mean they tried to do that and they realized we're gonna get this crazy much just the dose is a little bit interesting it's so flat that by stacking it you suit every day once the day 42 hours and by the way that it's stacked by the fifth day you reach steady state and it really has in terms of flat predictability and very low risk of hyperbois senior it has a great profile when you take it so we talk with the takeday basal insulin so same time every day you don't have to with tristiva you could be within an eight hour window so gives you a lot more flexibility and dosing a little bit more difficult to get on and one of the most expensive basal insulin so far away that one goes for like 800 dollars you know obviously I don't know what's going on in the black market but if you didn't have an inch if you didn't have prescription and here in the United States that's a very expensive insulin but by far one of the best and that is getting you that flamm on predictability okay call us let's wrap this up for all of our listeners so if someone is struggling with high-fast blood glucose levels they're not type one diabetic but they're borderline type two what basal insulin would you recommend that they start with and what doses would you recommend that they start with and then also when should they take it right so the basal insulin markets tricky I mean it's listen most people want to get what they want to get and depending on what your insurance is or what you can get your hands on what have you you got to consider basal insulin basal insulin okay so when you break it down we have all these little different nuances of each one which ones my favorite I feel like Tristiva to me is just in terms of risk of hyperbois senior and predictability the best I'm giving you a true 24 hour coverage to the Tujello nest in line been lantess in Leavener and then the final one is the generic basal but get your hands on basal insulin let's try to fix the fasting to ideal your vouchers are struggling you're not able to get it under 126 we need to do something you've tried everything and it's still not working so we want to fix the fasting first so if you're young and that basal hasn't been exposed to all the damage that we speak about that's I see in this industry then I think like you said Trevor let's that's act conservative in the medical profession we look at somebody that's fasting blood sugars are elevated and we start with point two units for kilogram body that might be too much you know the idea is not to feel this stuff you know so if you're on the younger side like you're in your 30s and you're noticing and you've ruled out type one diabetes you're not type one and you're fasting sugars are elevated you know you're yet done a few things in my life that might have predisposed me to this you want to maybe start conservative that's point one unit for your best small amounts okay small amounts so when theologist make clear is that she said kilograms not pound you take your weight and pounds divided by 2.2 and then what I would say is like if you're a very young guy I mean your beta cell probably isn't totally burnt out as quite as tired I would take that number and times it by 0.1 or 0.2 and that would be the amount of units of insulin per day so let's just say we had a 190 pound 30 year old okay and giving him the starting dose I just want you guys to please hear me on this that 0.1 is 190 pounds that 0.1 units per kilogram it's 8.8 units of insulin so let's start with 8 units and I know that sounds so small but even in package inserts of lances when we first started lances this is going back 20 years ago we didn't know what we were doing it that's how you got you just set on a package insert just give 10 units that was that was the and they just said start with 10 and tie a trade up to get your fasting sugar where you needed to go so when I say 8 that's conservative but it's not far out of the realm of what we did when we didn't really understand weight based dosing so start small and then test your fasting sugar and do not make immediate changes it takes 3 to 4 days for you to get that stacking of the basal insulin to really see if it's working so don't say the next I'm going to go up and go take your time and go up by 1 to 2 units don't this is not a race okay this is not a race to get to point where you have hyperguys senior so it started eight that's for the 190 pound 30 year old just like you said just a little tired made us up get the fasting sugar down and then you just kind of that dos kind of works you know and then you're like okay I'm going to go up to units now 10 because it's not right needed to be you shouldn't have to go up that high you know you shouldn't and if you do then something else might be going on you don't need a lot I mean I know this you know for sure now that being said if you are a guy when you're 40s 45 I haven't somebody's coming to my mind right now 45 been you know you know kind of a couple rough patches gained a little weight then he's back I'm a you know this is the guy's been working on his whole life you know issues with the fasting blood sugar he needs a bit more so we started at point two units which is the clinical dosing guidelines for patients that have a hot control fast at sugars and then you move up all right and we're moving him up we would have up I mean he's now taking a bit more and yeah I was just gonna say this to the to the public I want you to be please I don't even like saying this stuff is I really have to be smart about what you're doing more is never never never better with insulin it's all about your sugar you know that's they're not trying to I don't know what you're trying to do you you don't want to have a board so you're gonna get a 50 pounds you don't know sugar 70 to 120 right you don't want to push it below 70 but the average dose of basal insulin for somebody with diabetes is about 38 units just just to give you guys if for somebody with diabetes so when you don't have diabetes I don't expect you to get that high but you may have diabetes you know I can't tell you how many times I see guys that you know are in that position where their baby cell is no longer functioning as well as a sugar and they need to replace what their baby cells not making at this point I think we've pretty much covered everything the last thing I just want to touch on is that the amount of insulin you're taking if you're type to diabetic or if you're bored or on type to diabetic is not going to be static and I've had really get success with people come they've got high-faccing blood glucose levels we started to make the lifestyle change we spoke about I get them on a load dose of basal insulin and over the course of months we're able to reduce their basal insulin to actually nothing and I really think what Colette said is dead on is that they basically came to me their pancreas was very very tired we're supplying a basal insulin to kind of give the pancreas a break we're being smarter with their diet smart with their lifestyle things like that and then basically the pancreas they're able to heal itself and then you know basically a year or two years down the road they don't need that insulin anymore so don't don't think like okay I did everything Trevor and Colette said my dosage is 15 units per day I'm going to take this every day for an early rest of my life no no no what I would say is you know every month maybe kind of reassess and try a lower dosage if you're at 15 maybe after a month try dropping them 12 maybe try dropping it down to 10 maybe try dropping down to 8 6 and then off so especially if you're type to diabetic especially if you're a younger guy you must like you will be able to recover your pancreas call that do anything else I just want a second once you just said because I have a friend of mine who did just what you just said we started a mine actually had his hands on he got love in there and he was did he did it for and he's like a lot who are believe this all right he just he doesn't I mean it's fast and sugar who he did it for three months about three months maybe two months and um perfect this is this fast and she was 86 85 74 I mean no and so nothing um so it's pretty incredible that this is push-pull idea so don't think forever what we're thinking is like you said beta self preservation give it a rest let that little guy take a second to regroup and get stronger so that it's able to take the load of the life that we live and then just be kind of set up the things that we're talking about I mean from hydration to sleep to what you're eating we're eating two e-cars and I like the idea of you know around your workouts you just do not need to overdose on carbohydrates that's not necessary um and what medications and what stimulants and what things you're putting in your body that are causing insulin resistance and just the idea of more is not better even in terms of working out like we've become addicted to it to the point where we are stressing our entire central nervous system over and over again and we're never getting ourselves a day off and believe me my last thing and I'm gonna tell you this I have to take insulin to workout fasting blood sugar 85 this morning okay I take insulin no food water episode of vinegar lemon no nothing and my sugar will go up a hundred points if I do not take some rapid acting insulin for the workout because I was doing bad I was doing deadlift these these exercises cause a spider flight in your body so this is happening to me I know it because I see it so I don't make insulin but it's happening to you guys too when you do these crazy heavy stress I'm not telling you not to do that but that's just what I'm saying is you do need to give yourself a day off you gotta be got to rest otherwise you're gonna end up in that adrenal fatigue fried up flight and that is affecting your data sales level. Call it I really appreciate you taking the time of your day to this video with me guys give call it a follow on Instagram follow up on social media let's she is a very very smart woman do not take this lately don't just think oh I'm a young guy it's not gonna affect my physique or anything like that high fasting blood glucose lovers are linked to inflammation and inflammation is linked to pretty much every single disease in the body whether it be cardiovascular disease cancer stroke you name it so this is something you guys really want to be doing not just to give you the best physique possible but so the best health possible so for Trevor Kurditsin and high baby pro call it Nelson this has been our insulin exposed video series thank you so much for watching

This is Trevor Carritz and coming at you for a special insulin exposed addition. So one thing I've been getting all of my clients to do is test their fasting blood glucose numbers. It's very, very simple to do. Basically, we would have a fasting blood glucose model like this. They're not expensive. I mean, mostly glucose models, you actually get for free if you buy the strips. One thing that is becoming extremely alarming is the amount of body builders who had a healthy body fat. And six percent, seven percent, eight percent. The last people you think would have type 2 diabetes are coming back with super high fasting blood glucose numbers. There's a lot of reasons for that. There's, you know, stimulant usage, stress, lack of sleep, over abundance of carbs in the diet. Anyways, I'm not the expert on that. So I brought back on the show, I a Phoebe Pro call it Nelson because she's the expert when it comes to insulin. So call that the first thing I want to know is should everyone be testing their fasting blood glucose, at least like maybe once per week. The answers to that question by many medical professionals would be like, well, if you don't have a prediscosition, if you're not over 45, if you're not overweight, if you exercise every day, well, then why would you bother? And my concern is that exactly what you said. So I will say yes. And I think it's become almost epidemic proportions. By 2050, one in three people are going to have type 2 diabetes. One in three. So my concern is exactly what you said. So when everybody thinks about type 2 diabetes, and this is your standard medical professional. That's what they're looking at. They're looking at for different classifications. They're looking at age. They're looking at your lifestyle. They're looking at your BMI. They're looking at your diet. And they're looking at behavior like, do you sleep? You know, are you overweight? And so then the doctor, oh, you know, let's take a closer look. You might be predisposed to type 2 diabetes. But I think what's concerning to me and to you and to people in our industry is that we're just taking for granted. We're taking for granted, I hope, a lot of times in this industry. We think we're indispensable. But the problem is that it's something that we really do need to look at. And knowing the numbers and we're going to go through that today is really important because when you get a fasting blood sugar test on, you know, it's your doctor's office, if you come in at 100, they dismiss it. Now they're like, oh, don't worry about something you ate. I believe me. I've seen this because I've worked with people where that was their dismissal. You know, the truth of the matter is somebody that's an athlete that works out the way we do. They're fasting sugar. She'd be below 90. Please, everybody listen to me. That is the truth. Really fast and sugars are ideal at 75 to 85. So I'm saying when the blood sugar is 100, is that bad? No, not really, right? But to adapt to that's like nothing. Forget it. Don't worry about it. It was something you ate the night before, you know, you're stressed out. But I want you to be concerned because every day that your blood sugar is between 100 and 126 every day, that happens. Your beta cell is working harder. Okay, so let's talk about the beta cell, the beta cell makes insulin. That is in the pancreas. That is a very important cell. And I want to clarify that people often, this happens to me today at the gym when I was talking about insulin, they're like, oh, I would never take insulin. You know, it's going to cause diabetes, you know. And I'm like, I really hate to tell you this. That is not true. It's not like a feedback hormone like that. It doesn't work like that. It's like testosterone in the pituitary and it's sending all these different messages. And it's lowering your levels because you're putting an exogenous testosterone. And then you run the risk of these other things happening. This cell, this beta cell, it's a workhorse. All right, this is in working cell. It's working to regulate your blood sugar. It's working very hard. So I want this to be very clear. This cell is working every single day. It never gets a day off this cell. Why are we saying such a pin flux of type 2 diabetes? And now type 3 diabetes in the brain, glucose is going to brain and causing cell signs. So my theory is, this is a workhorse cell that eventually is burning out. And I think, now I'm theorizing this. I'm a diabetes educator. I work in other chronology and aspirations of one day finishing my nurse practitioner. So that I'll be able to actually be a provider. But what I'm saying is that eventually this cell is working less and less and less as we get older as just a theory of aging, my theory of aging. The worst thing you can have in your body is blood glucose. It's like acid going through your your your all your vessels destroying you slowly, but surely slowly but surely so all this sugar that's accumulating over time and it might be so seen so limited like I'm a blood sugar fasting's one 10, one 15. Yeah, this is a problem because that cell is now burning out slowly but surely burning out. So I can tell you let's restrict your diet. Let's reduce your carbohydrates. She got us everybody has in this adrenal fatigue. Hello people out there that I used to be this way. You're working out for three hours. You're not eating enough. You're starving. You're in a stress, fight our flight every second of the day. You guys, a constant and smaller system. It does. An insulin resistant is making the beta cell the cell that makes the insulin work harder. Here what I'm saying, you're driving this car and you're running out of gas. Now imagine this if you give insulin earlier and there's a theorist and I want to read you some of this theory so I won't remember all what he says is 30 reasons why you should take insulin. But if you start noticing your fasting sugar starting to elevate, okay, is that you're preserving the beta cell. I think that exact opposite in fact, there are theorists in Europe right now that believe by giving insulin earlier, you can prevent diabetes from ever happening. Okay, so. So before we jump into insulin all the different types of insulin, who should take insulin? Right. I want to know why is this happened. So this is a perfect example. I had a new client sign up last week. Young, a 30 year old guy, top level national bodybuilder. I mean, very low body fat, lots of muscle exercising regularly. Good diet. I told him, you know, in the initial questionnaire, please test your fasting blood glucose. Any basically email me back is like, dude, why should I spend a hundred bucks on strips when you run low body fat? I have none of the telltale signs of type D diabetes. And I basically said, just hear me out, man, like, like, buy it, distributing the last forever. You're going to use it eventually. Just trust me. It's a really good thing to keep an eye on. He tested his fast blood glucose. It was 130. Wow. I was so surprised. I was so surprised. I was like, something has to be up, man. Did you? Yeah. Maybe like sleepwalk and eat some rice in the known as like, put it again for me the next day. Next day, it was 127. So I want to know why are these, you know, people who are, they're not what you think a type to diabetic would be. Like when you think type to diabetes, you think overweight. Oh, no. Why are these healthy bodybuilders, you know, who are muscular exercising regularly, not eating fast food or anything like that? Why are they coming back with such bad, fast blood glucose levels and such bad insulin resistance? And this is something that I think everybody watching this series is going to take a step back. They're going to take a step back because I can promise to you. When I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in 1984, which we didn't know what we know now about the repercussions of blood glucose. So we just thought the type 1s were doing. They could never get the sugar's under control. So they told me my life expectancy was 65 because of blood glucose. They feared that I would never be able to achieve an A1c and we'll talk about that and it'll be something up on the screen that was playing with an A1c is abnormal because that then we had such limited resources, right? So they knew, it kept about that. It's average life expectancy. So now I want everybody listening to this to understand the trouble that you're right on track, but we need to get these people tested their fast and sugar because our behavior as top athletes actually can free to expose us to this type of insulin resistance much, you know, more unusual because it's not presenting in the way diabetes is going to have five different classifications. They're working on changing this because the medical professionals are starting to get aware. There isn't just type 1, there's not just type 1 and a half and there's not just type 2. There's different phases of these these confounds of type 1, type 2, type 1 and a half. There's just different elements of them that make what's going on in their body either more harmful or difficult to control or what I'm finding is this something else. Okay, what is the cause? So here's what we know. I'm just making it very clear that insulin resistant hormones in the body. Okay, we'll cause insulin resistance. I have treated patients. I used to actually work in an HIV clinic and I was like, why am I working in HIV? First it wasn't even on my alley. I was like, you know, I did diabetes lovers because of the drugs. We're causing secondary diabetes. System five grossest. There's a secondary diabetes to the drugs because it causes this insulin resistance and eventually the insulin cannot get through the cells. Insul has to get through the cells and if they're blocked, then basically all you're going to do is keep over producing insulin until the beta cell fails. So why is that happening? You guys, it's going to happen. You're predisposing your body to this biter flight. It's over adrenal fatigue. You're constantly in a state of stress, biter flight. We were talking from a fedsure to caffeine to clumped uterol to the mass of stimulants. And I mean, mass, I can't tell you a single body of your cell for me, probably. That doesn't take a pre workout. I don't do every pre workout. I don't recommend them. Like everybody hates it. I thought with pre-worker you're doing nothing. I'm doing apple cider vinegar, lemon, um, calm. I did calm in the morning. I didn't even need to like, want to reduce my muscles. And then I didn't even call it as that. These pre workouts, a lot of them are containing 300 to 400 milligrams of caffeine per scoop, right? Yep. And eight pounds cup of coffee has roughly 85 grams of caffeine. So that's the equivalent of drinking five cups of coffee in a single scoop. And a lot of people are double scooping it. But like if you would tell that person, would you drink 10 cups of coffee for breakfast? They'd be like, no, of course, I'd be horrible for my health. You're basically doing that before every single workout. Yeah, I mean, that's what I mean, we're saying it. People are listening. So the average people in our world, okay, they're doing that. They're over, I mean, believing you have seen worse. I mean, there's, that people's snoring. They're, they're, they're pre workout, right? I mean, it's like, it's, whatever they could do to stay stimulated. They're drinking coffee all day long. They're not sleeping. Especially when you're getting ready for a competition. You're actually in the worst state of health when you're getting ready for competition. So you're not sleeping. You're not eating your bodies under a constant state of stress. Then you topple on top of that. You take counter regulatory hormones to insulin like growth hormone. Sorry, that one is a counter regular, anybody can look that up. It is anti-insulin hormone. Your insulin has to work harder. So people will tell me I get low blood sugar on growth hormone. What's happening is your body's over producing insulin. Working harder, that's that four little beta cell again. That's just ready to, you know, just die on you. You're taking years off your beta cell. And so now you're doing that. Then gap with which you have an injury. Now you're getting a four to zone shot or you're taking a present zone or you don't whatever you need to do to get rid of the pain. So you just tackled yourself into a situation where it's almost like a drug or state-induced type 2 diabetes. And I've treated so many patients like that. Would that were on long terms of present zone? They didn't have diabetes. There's nothing wrong with these people. They were on present zone for a period of time. And their beta cell started failing. I mean, it was putting them on the same typical course, met formant and I was always wanting to advocate insulin. These are blood sugars weren't right. You know, why are you putting something on present zone letting their blood sugar go high and just say, oh, it's because of the pride of this zone. I just love that one. I'm like, do something about it, treat it. Because the blood sugar isn't saying that. The blood sugar is damaging the body and all the cells. So let's give her a listen. Some golden nuggets so they can take away all year. So how often should they be tested and if fasted blood glucose? And then what are the values? Like, what value are they good? There's nothing to worry about. What value is it? Okay, this is something I'm not going to freak out yet. But it's something I want to keep my on. And then what value is it basically? Okay, there's I need to take some mitigation actions right now. Right. Okay. So ideal fasting blood sugar is less than 90. Okay. And ideal in an athlete should be between 75 and 85. When you're running fasting sugars between 100 and 126. That's your cut-off is 126. That is called impaired glucose tolerance. You are beginning the beta cell destruction. And that is the truth. So if that continues for 10 years, we have done epidemiology studies to show that you will get that type 2 diabetes, which is elevated sugars, your fastings are going to be over 130 and you're not going to be able to be able to keep your blood sugars under 180 to hours after eating. So when you're in that 100 to 126 range, we need to get that down. Okay. So we need to take intervention. Now if you're coming up over 126 on two occasions, now let's for your client. I want him to, you know, really get enough sleep. Let's stay hydrated. Hydration is another thing. You stimulate your cell and you get your cells dehydrated. Your insulin can't work well. So now further this dehydration that we put our cells through as athletes, I forgot to mention that Trevor. The more you compete and the more you and people abuse this shit out of dioretics, dioretics is you read on the package insert, cause hyper glycemia, extreme insulin resistance. Let me tell you, when I used to take dioretics when I held on type 1s that have go through a competition, the insulin doesn't work. I would stick your inject insulin on a dioretic. It's at 50, 50 units. It doesn't matter. It doesn't work. When you're dehydrated, your cells do not handle the insulin the same way. So that's a further reason why we're causing this insulin resistance. Okay. So now, if you have two fasting sugars over 126, I am concerned. I would go for further testing. Like I would get a CPAP type. I would get insulin levels and I would get a hemoglobin A1c and that should all be done fasting. And that's, and then if you are in that 30 year old range, type 1 diabetes can happen at absolutely any age. So when I see that to pivotal age, Jason Poston, I hope he doesn't mind me mentioning his name, but I'm sure he won. I work with him. God diabetes in his early, like May 20s, early 30s. It's a perfect age and I see it mostly in men to get type 1 diabetes. And not saying that that's the case, but I want to something interesting about type 1 is that it can be very fast on set or very on a slower scale. So he might have the antibodies. So if you're seeing somebody that's lean and shape, it just doesn't even qualify for somebody that has, you know, that looks like a type 2. And they actually could have what we call ladder, latent autoimmune diabetes in your doll. And that, for sure, you should get your antibodies tested. And just, and your doctors will tell you you're crazy. It's expensive tasks. I'm not going to do it. It's a fluke. But I can't tell you how many people I diagnosed. Like, you have no idea. You know, I mean, Jason for one is Jason. You got it, you know, there's something going on. Get your antibodies. Sure enough, he's got the antibodies for type 1 diabetes. What is that? So if someone's over 126, they need to go for further testing because they're most likely diabetic. Yeah, that's. Someone's in between 100 and 126. What should they be doing? So that's when it's that gray area because like you've seen it on your cell. And I mean, you can fix this. I mean, because I mean, you know, we know some intermittent fasting, lowering your couple of hydrogen intake, getting enough sleep staying well hydrated, taking days off. I mean, we take some days off from the different, like, I used to be the worst. You know, I had to have a paper. It doesn't function right. So I guess I could, you know, I was always figuring it out with insulin, but you've got to take some days off. You got to get yourself back to a better homeostasis and reducing your stimulus, trying to become stimulant free, living on your own, like, body's energy, like, figuring out what that feels like. I mean, it's amazing because I'm like fluid throughout the day, you know, like it's hard to do because it's, you know, you're addicted to that stuff and watch your fasting. Now, whichever, what if you do all that? And, you know, I don't cost, I agree. You know, I was speaking about some of the glucose agents that helped to just close the insulin. I mean, I love, I mean, there's a ton of them out there. I mean, there's absolutely some science to these. And they help the cells become more responsive to insulin. I love it. You know, I'm like a big opposite of vinegar for us, because I see, I don't need as much insulin when I, like, I drink that like three times a day. It helps the cells become more insulin sensitive. So, I'll call the public acid, then you greet a um, uh, a banana, uh, chromium for me. Yeah, there's a ton of them. So, and I'm so into this, you know, this, this these are very helpful and it's in the science, but what if you do all that? And it still doesn't do enough or it's not consistent, that's where you have to ask yourself, you can, you can do kind of more radical things. And my opinion, I mean, I'm a little more radical on this, but um, because some people can't do the behavior change or they don't want to. And that's that's the fact of the matter. Like what if I want to compete? I don't really care. People will die for this sport. They will die for this sport. So I have a different theory and it's really radical and some people's mind and they I don't know if they think sometimes I'm being irresponsible but you know, we're getting to a theory of one more question for you. Met formant. What are your thoughts on met formant? One thing I will say about met formant is that the literature clearly shows that it will mess up your microbiome. So if you are going to use met formant and I'm not actually anti-met formant, I think it does. You're it. You're not want to use it every day. So maybe if you're on like a carb cycling approach, you only want to use it on your high carb days. Maybe only use it on the body parts. You're trying to bring out maybe like two or three times for weeks. I'm like that. But if you're going to use met formant, you do not want to use it every day. So call it, talk to me about met formant and then get into your theory. So met formant is very interesting. It's it is hard to criticize, right? It's been around since the 80s. It's the tried and true. It is the first line in any diatologist. I mean, internal metocenter and epistemology tell you met formant met formant met formant met formant. They're even getting into breast cancer patients. Because and I'll tell you why though, really, one of the reasons why is we know that glucose does predispose the cells that have our cancerists to feeding them. Glucose will feed the cells. You know, it feeds cancer cells. So anything that can help the cells dispose of this extra glucose, which met formant does, it helps the cells become more receptive. Then it makes sense that met formant could have these anti-cancer properties. So met formant has it's really made. It's had its place in bodybuilding and it's absolutely placed in diabetes on a really, almost every person that has type 2 diabetes is done on that formant. The problem is though, I always look at these things and what gets me with met formant is, you know, as much as we see all the value in it, you can't disregard what you're saying. But intestino flora, the beach wild deficiency, the lactic acid doses with it, the GI symptoms that are real. Some people literally just can't tolerate at a patient's body. And it just tore me out. You know, and they got then some people will kind of deal with it and then it does get better. Like anything else your body gets used to it. Getting used to it doesn't always mean a good thing because then the body is figuring out a way to adapt to it. By basically destroying somebody who can just so far. But um, so I think that there's a definite place for it that then Trevor, I can dare I say that I'm just a little different because when you understand what a basil and so on does, they do the same thing. Met formant, it stops the hepatate, it lowers the hepatate out put of glucose from the liver. That's what it's, that's what's made one of its main functions. It lowers the hepatate out put of glucose from the liver, right? And that is exactly if you read a package insert of a basil insulin like my, I hate to even like there's one traciva I guess it's going to come out weird looking out of things. But traciva is a basil insulin in my opinion one of our best basalinsons we have on the market. It is a 42 hour basal insulin it is there is very very very low risk of hypergalicity. I mean like a point I could get you the factors and we'll do that one put it up. It's extremely hard to overdose on a traciva. It's so flat and you know what it says it does? It lowers the hepatate out put of glucose from the liver. Holy wow, is it really doesn't lower your blood sugar when you eat? It doesn't doesn't do it. So then in trouble that's where I go interesting. You know we have two things that almost do the same thing which one has the least amount of side of that. Insulin, it's natural, it's a hormone replacement. So I'm always a person that's like I look for the fastest way to get from point A to point B. Metformin's great. But it's going to take you a little bit longer to get to point A to point B. You got to take it every other day or you know anything I really shouldn't. I mean you don't want to be on that so often to your body just pick you know. Or insulin really if people would get it out of their heads but if you took insulin insulin insulin is going to cost me to have diabetes people just don't believe that. People will forever have a fear of insulin because that's what we've been taught. That's what doctors are trying to like avoid it like we'll just take as long as we can before we give you insulin and that's slowly changing, it's slowly changing. When we start to really understand insulin a bit more and we're not so fearful of one of the major major major definitely side effects of insulin if you watch any insulin commercial is hyperguysing it and that's when you watch insulin commercials the best. Okay if you have an insulin and the side effects are hyperguysing yeah and then you could get dizzy, faint, tingling of the mouth and lips and then you could death. So I mean this is why we're always shy away from using insulin because there is the danger. I mean there's a danger but there's a lot less risk of danger and hyperguysing it in a long acting insulin than in a short. A short could be lethal. I mean it's that's sure short acting in insulin is absolutely and if you are not smart person or in the world of bodybuilding there are a little bit goes you know if a little bit's good then hell a lot's got to be better and I promise that is not the case with insulin. In fact less is more. You want to take as little insulin as you need to get you the best results and that's hard to get through somebody's head. There's no need to go more. More isn't going to help you. You don't want to feel insulin you know what I mean like oh I feel it I'm feeling tingling you know I'm getting like low but you don't want to feel insulin. You want it to do what it needs to do. Take the stress off the beta cell and I get me a fasting sugar between 75 and 85. Please get me that fasting sugar on a cassettes of basis. You can do that within insulin. But more yes you can do it and you can do it with glucose-suscoping agents and you can do it and that's great and if you do it that is taking the stress off the beta cell that's for any beta cell failure. So you're doing the same thing it's just a matter of how you want to go about dealing. So, Collin I grew with everything you said my goal with this video series is to get people actually thinking about the fasting blood glucose the carbohydrate intake is like that. I've had really get success if someone is in that 100 to 1206 range just by prioritizing their carbs around their work of window being a little bit smarter about their stimulant usage. There's sleep there's stress a lot of people have been able to get that borderline bad range back into the healthy range but I agree with you if you're doing all those things if you're being smart about your carbohydrate intake if you know we all have stress but if you're managing stress the best your abilities if you're if you're not abusing stimulants I think a baseline insulin is in the bad idea at all and especially you know for body builders who require a very large calorie intake and it helps me a lot of carbs it is beneficial. So in part two of this video series we're going to go through all the different types of insulin the half lives dosages things like that collect the last thing to finish off this video series before we get into part two. I want you to talk about the fact that there's no negative feedback loop because I think a lot of I think a big misconception for people have is that they're there that if they use insulin they're going to become dependent on it kind of like if you abuse steroids you'll eventually become dependent on structural replacement therapy talk just about the fact that there is no negative feedback loop with insulin so that's not something you have to be worried about. Right and and that is just it there isn't it's not that the beta cell is not a negative feedback loop it doesn't just die because you're getting an insulin it's actually the opposite so your body needs to maintain at all cost because believe me the body knows it is slightly off in blood glucose all your counter regular hormones go to hell okay they're all whacked out and the body is in the state of panic and it feels like it's starving so that's when it starts to kick out more glucose and it's actually working against you so it's working it's going to work so hard it's a work it's a workhorse sell this is the beta cell is definitely not involved in any type of negative feedback and fact what's happening is it's one of these cells that over time just ends up burning out and not able to keep up with the demand of the body and if you think about what I'm saying that makes sense because it can't keep up with the demand of the body the heavier you get because there's more cells while these fat cells it's trying to keep up with the demand but it can't so it will do whatever it takes to keep your blood sugar but to really it wants to keep it under a hundred that's what the body wants to do okay that's truly the truth we really want to stand or a hundred so when that doesn't happen that cell will just die off and you will lose beta cells in fact type two diabetes once your diagnosed every year you lose five percent more beta cells you're losing them right now okay everybody listen to me when you give insulin it actually gives the cell rest and what we found is that if you can give the cell rest because it's a workhorse cell it can actually get stronger and I know this sounds like hocus hocus it's not there are people that are doing this now in people in Europe and Japan running these studies so if you actually give insulin earlier in the disease right you provided the body insulin the body will not overproduce insulin which is what happens in type two diabetes now the insulin levels actually come down so now the actually opposite of what you think is going to happen you're getting more insulin when you're giving your body's making more then your own body goes wow I don't need to make so much more insulin so the body's you've got a senior insulin coming from the outside and then the cell is to relax and it's not going to overproduce insulin it's actually going to then just give a little bit of time to just rebuild itself and get actually stronger and this is what you can see when people do intermittent fasting and stuff I had a patient show me their blood work and they they're CPAPTI if you're guys the CPAPTI needs how much insulin your body makes was very low and actually that's actually not a bad thing it's just showing the beta cell isn't having to work hard and I said what kind of diet are you on it's doesn't it fast and it's not a really really low carb diet is getting right for a show and some really stupid doctors go oh my god you could have type one diabetes because the the CPAPTI is so low like I have a very low CPAPTI I see peptides like in non-existent because I don't make any insulin however this can be the case in people that are eating a low carb they're giving their beta cell rest their insulin affinity is really really high he's lean these people are lean these people are like their their bodies are like just motorhouses you know so that's actually why I think people that do be calorie restriction diets they say it's life extension because you're giving your beta cell rest and it's actually getting stronger so insulin can give you that same exactly the same thing because it's giving the beta cell rest and you're actually extending the life of your beta cell to never ever see a fail and end up getting type two diabetes and I truly believe that's this is the case so what call it myself hope to do with part one of this video series just give people cognizant about fasting but glucose numbers are carbohydrate and taking like that so what we're hoping you're doing is after watching part one you go by a blood glucose monitor then not that expensive I mean with the strips and everything is in caution maybe a hundred bucks test your fasting glucose and cheaper than that Trevor of re-lion I don't I don't know this brand I'm not promoting anything but re-lion is $10 and you can get a hundred strips for $17 from Walmart you have to buy it online or if you have a Walmart in your area I would in New York I think they don't that is the absolute cheapest way in the same technology in your one touch or your bear contour and all those if you want the unhealthy is that Trevor $10 I don't think we have the main candidate oh you may not you probably don't my 4 Canadians over there it's okay I got health insurance but again the blood glucose monitor you buy doesn't matter just get the cheapest one they're all the same things all you're gonna get with the more expensive one is you know some fancy bills and what's the more important you're fasting blood glucose for you or it'll send you like a reminder or something like that like just get the cheapest one so we're hoping is after part one you test your fasting blood glucose if you're under a hundred you're good if you're over a hundred twenty six go seek medical help because you're mostly diabetic if you're in between a hundred a hundred and one twenty six try prioritizing your carbohydrate intake just around workouts minimize stress lower your stimulus it's reassess in a couple weeks if you're still in that area part two of this video series and I explain what to do to get further blood work testing what all these hormones call it talk to but what they all are see have all that sort of stuff each one see we're talking about what all those hormones are what they do what values you want and then if you're gonna get into if you're gonna try using a baselines when we're gonna talk about all the different types of insulin dosages to start with when to take it it's gonna be all an o-bremeter so part one was basically this is why you should test your fasting blood glucose go and test it part two is basically the mitigation strategy if you're above a hundred so thank you for watching and make sure to check out part two

Welcome back to live with Brokey by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com, I'm Dave Palombo. And today's guest is a very special one. We've been trying to feature and really showcase more Middle Eastern body builders since the town on pool over there is tremendous Iran specifically. We've talked about Heidi Schouppen coming out of Iran not being able to get to the Olympia because of these restrictions in the United States here. But there's so much town over there that I wanted to showcase another one of their great Iranian athletes. Barus Tabani won the World Championships in 2016, earned his pro-card. He's in the serving in the military now and he gets out. He's going to really watch his pro career. But we got him here today and we have a little bit of a translator because he doesn't speak English that well. Welcome also, Human, Sapantimer for making this interview happen. Thank you so much. Ask Barus. What is like being a bodybuilder in Iran knowing that you have travel restrictions to a lot of countries around the world? Hi, Dave. Okay, Barus, he's asking, then the Gutierdhanche, GDK, Masalaan, vis-a-vis Zabitz, the United States and the United States. And I think we have to see it. Thank you very much. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So he's saying that he's not a good feeling because he sacrificed a lot of things to get to this level. And it's not a good feeling that he cannot compete unfortunately. So unless he tries to get the residents of another country, so that he can compete at the pro level. Right. Yeah, and probably would be a smart idea. He's only 25 years old. He won the World Championship in our 2020 pounds. We've seen a lot of the Iranian bodybuilders in that 2012 division, Baito, obviously, hotty and a couple other guys. He's going to be an open bodybuilder, obviously, a 220 pounds. And probably by the time he gets back on stage, he'll be a lot more than that. These are exciting times for the Middle Eastern bodybuilders. Give us a little idea of background. How did he get into bodybuilding and what inspired him to want to be a competitive athlete? Where is the president? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Okay. So he's saying growing up in the village. He didn't have a gym nearby. So he used to work out with custom made and handmade barbells and domals. And from very young age, he used to dream about becoming a professional. Even though he was living in a village, we're not having a gym nearby to go to. And by the way, his height is 510 and he's weighing about 265. Right now. Cool. Yeah. That's quite a bit of muscle. Is it true that he's the youngest child of 12 kids? Yes. Wow. Did he grow up poor or was he from middle class family? There was one of the saddest and motorlassity that she did as a mother. After study. Yeah. He's coming from middle class family. Yeah. He's going to say, you can't really have 12 kids in the poor. Yeah. You know, it's funny because, you know, in a lot of the middle eastern countries, the smaller ones, even like in Israel, everyone serves in the military. So he's 25, but he's just, he just started his military service because of the fact that he was in college. So, you know, do a lot of people go to college in Iran. I mean, is that typical for a bodybuilder or is he kind of different? It seems like a lot of the bodybuilders don't go that route. He kind of has a little bit more education in most of them. Well, I'm a dancer to that question. Yes. This is come policy for everybody. But the thing is, if you're to champion in any sports, you get some advantages. It should be a little easier for you to do that. I got you. So he's not really on the battlefield. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Well, that's good. I mean, I think that works out well. They get some respects for whatever they do. Right. Well, in Iran is bodybuilding considered like a big sport. Like I've always been told like in the Middle Eastern countries, bodybuilding is kind of like what football is here in the United States. And today is the right country for every lean soldier to fight for two more states in Constantinats to右 And other people in particular the Tigerinners? Yes. Good. There are five years. It runs half a year, yes. Yes. But also for Jan Jan rings from just only from age to age. But it's impossible to play there in twenty years like since when is the first or the second in the world at the amateur level in bodybuilding and of course bodybuilding is one of the most respected sports in the Iran and but unfortunately we cannot make it to the pro level because of the visa van and most most of the concerts and competitions are in the United States. Yeah of course of course. Now I know in like a lot of like the Egypt and a lot of the Dubai countries like that if you win the amateur world amateur championships you get paid by the countries that the same as in Iran. So he's saying the bodybuilding for the nation and the ministry of physical education does not give anything but the city of his own hometown pay him like a couple hundred dollars. Which is still better than most bodybuilders got. Now I got to ask you because I know a lot of my my listeners and viewers are very detail oriented and I'm watching you look at it shirt and I love the the Dory Nights temple shirt but why is Dory in spelled with an M rather than then. The Russian military military military Maribosa Doryan Yetset, 10th of June. Me get the Dory Nights Pozori Barat. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. And the Russian military TEMPOLGIM. Boshka Dory Nights. Me get the child out of the air. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. He's saying he really appreciates that the admirers feel he's Dory Nights but the special Dory Nights. So that's one of the reasons he's doing the T-shirt. It's still with an M rather than an M. I didn't see that. Okay. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Yeah, this is the mistake that his response and Dory. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. What is he looking to do for his pro debut? Has he picked the show yet? Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. Dory Nights. I was actually thinking his deity-sense. He already remembered the change of story. He doesn't want his recommendation from this kind ofiamarts. So he's saying he doesn't have any problem other than getting out of the country and getting the visa to get to any pro competition and his final goal is to get into the Maserolinka But what show what will he be for a show? A lot of people probably wondering where is the pro day you're going to take place? Obviously he can probably won't be in the United States but there's plenty of other places around the world and out that are holding shows all over the place The Russian musave has been very interesting to see the Chinese people in the United States. I get normal these animals and what they both do is to get the money. So he's saying in the current situation he cannot get out of Iran so he cannot have any exact plans for pro competitions But the Federation, the bodybuilding Federation is trying to do something to give him the permission to get out of the country. So it's a tough political situation of that. You know that right now, tensions are very high and obviously that is a lot going on. I'd like to see him up on a pro stage. I think he's got a tremendous physique. I want to just tell Baru's that I think that he's a very special bodybuilder and hopefully we get to see him one day on that Mr. Lippi stage and so that he can realize his dream. By the way, so whatever he is talking about, those who can share his friends. I wonder how Cymania introduced his sight that interests Colombia. I mean he has a prerequisite for qualifying this. I think one of the students who performed him at the bookstore they'décht the most in W reluctant to introduce himself. One that connects with another joy and support of the weakness of Saudi Arabia. They're a great guy. Hello, my name is Kolev. I'm a community officer. I'm from the South of the West. I am a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. I'm a community officer. He's saying it was an honor to talk to you. And it's going to be a dream to meet you in person. And get some knowledge and information from you towards his goal to be on the Olympia stage. Excellent. Tell them to give us a couple of poses to take us out. You're going to be a volunteer. You're going to be a volunteer. You're going to be a volunteer. Yes, you're a senior. That's Baru's Tabani. Watch out for him in the future. He's going to be a deadly force in the open. You're going to be a senior. Go. Senior, you're going to be a senior. Why? You're going to be a senior. You're going to be a senior. I'll just teach you. You're a fake door ain't your shirt coming off. Person came come right now. Pause and press. Fantastic. What talent? I can only hope that these depursion talent can be showcased in the United States at some point in the future. Looking forward to it, obviously. Tremendous talent. Only 25 years of age. And got a bright future ahead of him. Hey, who am I? Thank you so much for making this thing happen because I know you facilitated the whole thing. Thank you for pushing me a little bit to get this done. I think it was a terrific interview. Sure. It was a pleasure. All right. And that's going to take us guys to the end of another episode of Live With. BroadTubey species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumball and we'll see you next time.

Day for Lumbo here with an RX muscle, rant brought to you by RedCon1.1.com. Today's topic, Irresponsible Health Mistakes that Bodybuilders Make. This is going to be one I'm going to really get a little heated over and a little aggravated over because I get so many people contacting me. I would say 50% of the people who contact me now are for health issues reasons and most of them are really avoidable. Now while I enjoy helping to solve people's health issues and keep them healthy and help them overcome obstacles that they think they may not be able to overcome, I would like to prevent them from happening to begin with. So guys I want you to pay attention here. There are some easy things that you can really pay attention to, diagnostic testing wise that can prevent you from running into trouble. Now what am I talking about? Probably the number one problem that people encounter and they don't realize this is a problem until many years later. It's high blood pressure. It sounds stupid but the new actually according to Merrick Harzo's years, the new normals are actually lower than it used to. It used to be 180, it seemed to be 120 over 80 was the normal blood pressure. But blood pressure basically stands for systolic pressure over diastolic. Cystolic is when the heart, the left ventricles contracting. So you're going to have the most pressure and the diastolic pressure is the pressure in the vessels when the left ventricles relaxing. So we always thought that the relaxing blood pressure was more important because that's the pressure you have all the time in your vessels. Turns out both of them are just as important now. They're saying, you want to keep, I believe it's 120 over 70 now they're saying or even 115 over 70 they want to see. I don't think this is a thing about if the older one is planted, it uses that in that range. I'm laughing but I'm not laughing. Now, granted, we don't have to be neurotic about a couple of points to upper down. But the bottom line is that we got to keep blood pressure on the check. Now I was always afraid to check my blood pressure when I was younger because I didn't want to know, so to speak, which was stupid of me. Luckily I didn't really have excessively high blood pressure. If I did, I could have been in a big trouble because as we know, high blood pressure destroys the kidney tubules. Remember the kidneys are the filters, the filter, the blood and if you have constant high pressure and pounding on them, it over time breaks them down and once again, 10 years, 15 years after having high blood pressure, you can destroy enough kidney tubules that you don't get your kidney function is destroyed and it's no longer good. All of a sudden you start coming back with high B, you went and creating levels on blood work and you don't know why and it's because you have high blood pressure 10 years. What we want to do is we want to take care of it. I was afraid also to take blood pressure medicine, I thought it would inhibit my muscle gains and that was just pure ignorance on my parts. I didn't do enough research. The bottom line is that the ACE inhibitors, ACE inhibitors, which are the drug class inhibitor conversion of angiotensin 1 and 2, which goes eventually into aldosterone, which will make you retain fluids. When you inhibit those that hormonal cascade, you have less aldosterone, you body, less sodium, absorption, less water absorption, blood pressure is lower. It also opens up the kidney tubules, the filtering mechanism vessels so that you filter your blood better. It's actually ACE inhibitors like Ramaproil and Lucina Prol are actually kidney protective because they allow the kidneys to filter better by opening up the vessels and they reduce fluid retention in the body and they reduce the ability of the body to raise blood pressure. So basically your pressure drops when you're on these things. The great thing is they really have no side effects. Some people can notice a dry cough sometimes. I noticed that when I originally started taking a baby for a week or two, then I never never get it anymore. I never happened. Again, I've been taking these things for 15 years now. But I wish I had started the meralias. You almost might think that prophalactically anybody, both of who's over a certain way, should take an ACE inhibitor, assuming their pressure is not ideal. And how do you know if your blood pressure is ideal? You don't wait till you go to the doctor. You don't wait. You go and buy a blood pressure cuff at CVS or wherever a Walmart and you might spend 50-70 bucks. You put it in, make sure you get, if you have a big arm, you have to get the leg cuff to put on your arm. It's interchangeable. Usually, you wrap your arm, you push your butt. You don't have the duet, you push your butt and then it'll give you your blood pressure in your heart rate. And if you're running high on a consistent ACE, it's not just take it one-to-day, take it all throughout the day to get a good range of what you're doing. On-cycle off-cycle, if you're running high, get on a blood pressure medication. It's so simple and you'll preserve your kidneys. Steroids are not toxic to the kidneys. High blood pressure is. Unfortunately, a lot of steroids close high blood pressure. So it's not that the kidneys are being toxified by the steroids that they're being subjected to high blood pressure. So tremble on, it's not everyone says it's kidney toxically. It's really not. It just raises blood pressure really high. And that can make you, that could obviously be damaging to the kidneys. So that's an easy fix. And that's probably the most prevalent health issue that I see among bodybuilders. Another thing that's becoming more and more prevalent. And obviously, you can tell if you have kidney issues by your B.U. and in creating. And it's blood jewelry, nitrogen and creating levels. These are waste products that are found in the blood. If they're high, beyond a certain point, then what that means is your kidneys are not functionally getting rid of these toxins, which means they're not working efficiently. When you get to that point, unfortunately, sometimes it's a little too late. Now, if a normal creat needs about 1.3 to 1.4, that's on the high level. If you're running 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.7, 1.8, that's high. That's when you really aggressively want to start combating that. Using products like kidney stuff that I sell at daypaloma.com. Reducing your protein intake for several weeks to give your kidneys a break. If you ask me once again, I've sent up hundreds and thousands of these things already. My kidney detox, what I should say is my three week detoxing cleansing protocol, which is good not only for the kidneys, but for all the digestive organs in the body. I'll send it to you for nothing if you just email me at huge285aawal.com. And I advise you to do that once a year. This will give your organs a rest and a break. But once BUN and createn gets over, say 1.9 up into the 2s, that's a little harder to reverse now. Now you're going to really have to work hard. Liver regenerates really quickly. The kidneys do regenerate, but it takes much longer. It could take years. So once again, you must aggressively attack this. You do not want to lose your kidneys. If you lose your kidneys, you will be very, very upset. Believe me, it's not a good life from that point on. Even if you get a kidney transplant, you're going to be on anti-rejection drugs at the whole life. You don't want to go there if you can avoid it. So high blood pressure, number one kidney killer. Want to get that on the control. You want to monitor your B1 and createn levels. If they start creeping up over that 1.351.4 level, you have to aggressively treat that. Telling you, these are very avoidable pitfalls, but I see that all too much embodied going. There's a lot of people in kidney failure out there. You don't just hear the ones that are willing to come on to the TV show and talk about it. There's probably five times that amount out there that are not telling you what's going on. There's a lot of guys that are dying because getting a kidney transplant is not always the fix. Sometimes it's no fix. You die sometimes. So you don't want to lose your kidneys. Another new trend that I'm seeing is high blood sugars. Every person I'm working with now, I'm especially in the UFC, and I'm having them check blood sugars. Once again, I've told you this before, you can get a Walmart for $9 and get a blood sugar monitor, $9, get a test strips, and start testing a blood sugars. The morning fasting, before you eat anything, is the most important. It should be under 90. I don't care what the blood work says from lab core or whatever you're going, Quest, they may sound like $100. It's under 90. That's what the safety net is. Two hours after your biggest three meals, they should test your blood sugars. They should be under 130. Usually the post meal blood sugars tend to run normal. It's the fasting that start out getting screwed up. Because overnight, your body is producing glucose in the liver, the egg-luka, and the genesis, and your body has to release insulin to that. A lot of times, when insulin production becomes sluggish in the body, that's when you're see it first. Inability to keep low fasting morning blood sugars, or at least in the normal range. If you're running over an over 90 on a consistent basis, you have to think about maybe doing some insulin replacement. What that means is using a long acting. Not a short acting insulin, like some of the performance enhancing protocols that we put out there. This is a health protocol. A long acting insulin, like a lanthus, or trushiva, which is these are brands of what we call basal lung acting insulin. You take them in a morning, and a night, trushiva, actually, you take one today. What you're doing is you're basically taking the bird enough of your pancreas. You're allowing this long acting insulin to do the job of your pancreas from a long-term perspective of basal insulin, not a short meal perspective. It just takes the bird. It allows the cells, the beta cells of the pancreas to start to heal, to regenerate, rejuvenate. If you do three months, four months of taking a long acting insulin if you're running high blood sugars, and then you stop it, usually beta cell function resumes, and you can and usually it's pretty good after that. If you're taking a lot of growth hormone, that's putting a strain on your pancreas to have to produce more insulin. It normally does that sometimes can burn out those beta cells of the pancreas, and we don't want that to happen. You do not want to become an insulin dependent diabetic, because no matter how good you are managing, you're taking those insulin shots and eating the right foods, you're never going to be perfect. You're going to get side effects. High blood sugar is the number one rising problem that I see, and taking drugs like glucophage or insulin sensitizers is not going to solve the problem. Because yeah, you might lower your blood sugars. The problem is you're in your pancreas is still having to work too hard. We need to give the pancreas a break. That's the best way to do it in insulin replacement. Just like you take testosterone replacement, because because your testicles and I produce an F-ducylicosterone, you take insulin replacement. The good thing about the beta cells is that they can regenerate and start producing more insulin. Assuming you didn't kill them all off, which some people do. If you have an autoimmune disease like a type one diabetic, there's nothing you can do about it. This is self-induced destruction of the pancreas. Go get a blood protester. Okay, blood sugar monitor, it's like I said, for 20 bucks, you've got everything you need. You can test your blood sugars as many times you want it during the day. At least you've got an idea of baseline value of what's going on in your body, and then you can make an informed decision. Now, there are other things that we can talk about. I see people who come to me with liver issues. Now, just because you have a high liver function on blood work, doesn't mean you have liver disease, because a lot of times these liver enzymes go up because they're really metabolic enzymes. And you're breaking that a lot of muscle in the gym, and these are just leaking out of the muscle cells. But a lot of times doctors will send you if you're having pain or you're having weird digestive issues, they'll send you for a liver sonogram, and the liver sonograms come back. I see this whole time. And a lot of people who contact me, and they have cysts on their liver or the liver is a little weird, the architecture of it. It's inswelling. That means you're liver is being stressed. The good news is that your liver has a very, very, very good ability to regenerate itself. However, you have to let it detoxify itself. That means you have to do my detox program. You have to take the strain off that liver, get rid of any animal, chatech, any kind of orals who take the entire animal in the oil, or I'd be profan, just allow your body to clean out a little bit, and let your liver regenerate. I mean, milk fistle is a tremendous product because there's two things that really help the liver to regenerate. Milk fistle, okay, silicon iron, which is the, I guess you could say, the herbal name of it, opens up the liver of docks, the bile docks, and that allows the liver to dump its waste out and get rid of it. A lot of times, the liver is taxed and it gets swell, it pinches those vessels off in the liver can't detoxify itself. Milk fistles hugely important, also the antioxidant, okay, glutathione is super important for liver function and for regeneration. But you can't really take glutathione orally unless you go and you get an injectable form from like Titan Medical Center, that's fine, but not everyone can do that. You can take an acetyl-sistine, which is a precursor to glutathione. That is orally absorbable. I sell a product from Bill Lwellon on my daypalumbad.com website called liverstable. Add that into your regimen, it'll open up your liver tubules, the oxenium, the bile docks, allow your liver to detoxify itself and it also gives you the antioxidant you need to combat any kind of oxidative stress in the liver. Once again, the liver regenerate then regenerates pretty fairly quickly. Don't allow that to become, you don't want to go into liver failure, you don't want to get liver cancer. I've seen a lot of body bowls with cysts, body bowls who have cysts in the liver that developed in the cancer and some of them have died. I don't even want to go into it, but it happens. A lot more than you guys think. Don't want that to happen. The other thing that I really want people to become aware of and I'm just looking at my notes here so I don't forget anything would be your prostate. High DHC levels over extended periods of time, certainly cause the prostate to enlarge. Now, if you're getting up 600 times the night the pain and you can't actually get the pain, the pain is not a big deal. If you're being a lot, that's fine. If you're getting up the pain, you can't actually get the pain out because it feels blocked into some degree and you just always pain and never really emptying your blood. That's a problem. That means you're prostate to enlarge. Go see a urologist and let him look at that and tell you, yeah, your normal or no you're not because prostate cancer is also very, very prevalent in our industry. It's not just our industry. It's all over. Then get prostate cancer, but men who take animal ox steroids, if you have a predisposition for enlargement of your prostate and it can speed it up. We want to make sure that the prostate is taken care. No one wants to die from prostate cancer. No one wants to have to have their prostate removed if it can be avoided. Get that checked out every once in a while as well. These are pretty much the pitfalls I see on a regular basis. Blood pressure number one, certainly on the rise high blood sugars. I think high blood sugars are going to prove to be very, very, very, very detrimental in the future. I think we're going to see a lot of issues, a lot of side effects blindness and fingers and toe extremity, losses and stuff. All the typical, also loss of kidneys, all the typical stuff you see in fat over way people. We're going to start seeing embody bowls because bodybuilders have blood sugar issues because we take growth hormone. And growth hormone makes the pancreas have to work harder. You burn your pancreas out. You don't have good blood sugar control. You get diabetes and you get diabetes side effects. You don't want that. Okay? Easy fix. You have a blood sugar monitor if you're high. You take supplements and insulin. All right. I can probably go in for another six hours about this. We'll have to continue this another time. But guys, be smart. Get your health checks. Don't ignore the symptoms that you're hearing or seeing or feeling in your body. Go with check when to doctor. If you're not sure you want to send me some blood work, I'm more than having to look at it. For now though, I'm Dave Palombo with another RX muscle rant.

It is the hardest sport out there because it's a accumulation of all these variables together. But if you don't have diet and training and and and sleeping down properly, then then you could take all the gear you want. It's not going to do anything. We all know that. So the gear is just makes things work better, you know. It's kind of like an enhancer. So the problem is that no one gets the other variables down pat and then they take gear and they get Modo, so-so results from it. You know, you take gear and everyone's going to grow from that, okay, to a certain degree. But how much you grow and the benefits you get, okay, from it, are really dependent on the other variables. You know, when I took my first cycle, my diet was perfect, my training was perfect. I responded so well. You know, I was gaining 25 pounds, you know, 20 to 25 pounds a year of muscle for the for five years in a row. There was a reason because I had all the variables perfect before I ever took gear. Okay, had I taken gear and I didn't have these variables perfect, but I probably went to meet those kind of gates. And that's an important thing to understand. Now having said that, I made it very good games the first couple years. I the first four or five years that I was training, okay, without gear, just by learning to eat right and train right. So if I would have taken gear then I would have been wasting my time because I would have been using the gear to grow. And then when I actually needed the gear, it wouldn't be there. And that's why you got guys like Ronnie Coleman who were natural for many years. They started taking gear and their body is exploded because they had maximized. He had maximized his ability to train. He trained heavy. He, you know, he ate right. He lived the body building lifestyle. It didn't matter that he was an undrugs. So when he added those in, it just made everything work better. Another person that comes to mind, high green, responded incredibly as well. Same thing, same thing, look at Sean Clarita, look at the, the, the games he's made the best three or four years. He was a natural bodybuilder too. So you got to understand that the gear is not that important until you hit a point where you've maximized everything you could have done prior to that. And then you added in and you get that added benefit of a really getting explosive growth front.

There's no such thing as natural bodyability. Are some people 100% natural in the sense that they don't use any illegal performance enhancing drugs absolutely? Are all the people who compete in natural competitions natural now? Because for most of these organizations, they call themselves natural, but they're really just drug tested organizations. You beat the drug test. You beat the drug test. I mean, that's what the Olympics are. You think the Olympics are natural? Come on. It's called beat the drug test. Sometimes you fail the drug test like this runner. We just saw, you know, recently, who's banned for four years. You're rolling the dice. If you pass the drug test, you win the Olympic gold in your hero. If you fail it, you know, you're a criminal. That's how they, that's how you branded this country. OK, and this is unfortunately how it goes. So are there natural competitions out there? They say they are. Is everyone natural? No. Are some people natural? Absolutely. And that's a personal choice you have to make. I just feel that if you're going to use antibiotics, can you get to use drugs that are banned by these organizations? You might as well compete in an organization that doesn't test you. Because why be a fraud? You know what I mean? If you, those organizations should be reserved for people who don't want to take drugs. It's like it's a protected environment. But unfortunately, it just isn't that because people want to be champions. They don't care if they have to cheat. They don't care if they're going to be the big fish and a small pond. It doesn't matter to them. I competed in a natural organization for one or two times when I was natural. And you know what? The second time I competed, people thought I was a natural. So I said, you know what? I'm not going to deal with this stuff. You know what? The truth is I want to be the best. And if I want to be the best, I got to use stuff. So I started using some antibiotics. I never competed in the natural organization again. Because I said, you know what? If I'm going to be the best, I got to compete against the best. I think it's my choice how much I want to use or not use. Just because you compete in an organization that uses drugs. I mean, you have to use the most drugs of anyone out there because the amount of drugs you use is not an alicous to how well you place. As much as some people may think that that's the case, it's not. Okay, taking a threshold amount, eating right, training right, sleeping enough, having some genetic predisposition. Those are the keys to success in bodybuilding. If you think it's all drugs, you don't know what you're talking about.

Dave Palombo here for an RX Muscle Supplement and Science review and today we're going to be talking about the old new Roy test. You know, I wish I invented it. I people think they did I did build a well in the invent of these kits and they designed to test your animal accelerates, climbuter all now and growth hormone. The new Roy tests, however, have been designed and released just recently. I know a lot of you guys have been asking, why did they come out? How are they going to work? Well, we got them. We got them. We got the new complete testing system here. This is an amazing one. This is got like you could test your 10 tests with this thing. You got multiple ABCD vials. The E-vile is now the climbuter all tester. So the climbuter all testing vial, the calling the Vile E, for those of you who don't know what I'm even talking about, the Vile A and D and C and D are the original vials that we test for anobox. Now all anobox steroids, let's put climbuter all side, are two vial testing systems. So for injectables, you use a D-vile and then an either an A or a B and for the, a, what roles you use a C-vile and then an A or a B as confirmation. So you need these two vials. You can't differentiate between compounds. A lot of times, multiple like injectables will turn purple on the D-vile. Some of them do it in different timeframes, fast or a slow. But to differentiate between different you know, esters, you need to use the A and B-vile and see what they turn color wise to give you the perfect identification. Now in the past, okay, the, originally, this is now called the complete testing system. This was originally called, had a few different iterations. It was a much smaller box. Now it has this huge carrying case. You get your UV light, all your color charts in here, you get 10 vials. And there's also now an F-a-G and an H-vile. So the ABC and D are the test your anobox steroids, E-test, climbuter all, okay, F-NG will test quantitatively what's in the steroids. In other words, if you test testosterone, it comes back positive. Now you can use your F, okay, vile. And it will tell you how much testosterone is in there. If you are testing DACA, you use the G-vile, I believe. So I think I think trend and N-F-A and test, I gotta just take a little look, and use the F-vile, and then DACA uses the G-vile. And the H-vile, okay, it's just the retesting reagent, okay. So it's pretty simple. Now if you look at the charts, we can put them up on the screen. You can see the color reaction for oral products. So you see this, they broke the color charts down into here. You can test for your orals. You use the C-vile, and then either the A or B, depending on which is in the, recommended use chart, okay. And then you can see the different color changes. Obviously, at the B, anytime you use the B-vile, you will expose it to the UV light as well. And in certain circumstances, specifically, if you're testing methyl testosterone, you'll see it'll turn green when you subject it to the UV light. If you look at the next chart up there, if we put the injectable color reaction chart, that's gonna be the one that most people are gonna use the most, because that's the most of the antibodies. They all use the D-vile, and then either the A or B. And you can see it under the B-vile. If you hit it with the UV light, certain compounds like natural and phenyl propinate, which is NPP, test propinate, a trinacitate and trininanthate, we'll all turn a different color when exposed to the UV light. So you want that UV light, which comes in the complete testing kit. If you go to the third chart up on the screen, you'll see this is if you have raw powders. So if you're getting like powders in from China, you want to test them to see for the purity, you would use this chart. Now, it's interesting because a lot of people ask, what if my antibiotics are like, like, they have like water-based, you know, like drugs like wind stroll. You have to actually draw, you have to take a couple drops of the wind stroll, put it on a piece of paper, leave it overnight, let it dry out, and then the powder that's left on the paper, you can scrape off with like a little razor-brain and that's what you test. You can't put like water-based compounds into the testing reagents. It won't work. You got to use powders. Okay. So you got to powderize this stuff. Now, if you look at the fourth chart, I believe that's the color reaction for the pure raw powders. This is for the injectables. The first one that you won't before this was for oral compound. So you have four different color charts now. It's just broken down and made a little easier. But basically, the new technology that's out, aside from the fact that they've renamed things, is what we call quantitative tests in here. They're all available at dayplumboys.com. Now, you can get the Roy test complete testing system, or if you don't want to get the whole box set, you can buy the quantitative. Now, the quantitative test, which you tell you how many milligrams of compound is in this stuff, are only for three specific drugs at this point, or four specific drugs. Test and antherate, test-sippingate, deck and derival, which is natural and decant await, and trend and antherate, not trend-acetate, trend and antherate, the long-racking trend, the tabloid. Here's the trend test and here's the testosterone test. And if you look in these tests, if you buy these tests, you're going to get two vials. If you're going to test the test-sippingate or antherate, you're going to get the F violin here. And you're going to follow the directions and put your drops of liquid into this, then you're going to add the H-vial, which is the testing reagent, and you're going to make a little chemical reaction. You're going to play chemistry set. And then you're going to read the color chart. It's going to tell you how many milligrams of this. But you first want to test and make sure you have testosterone. And that's another test. So you're going to use the testosterone test. If it is testosterone and antherate, it's going to be going to use this, and it's going to tell you how many milligrams. Same thing with trend, antherate here. You're going to first use the trend-blown testing kit, which is two vials. If it comes back as trend-blown and antherate, then you're going to take this. OK, and you're going to put more substances in here. You're going to follow the directions. Very simple directions. OK, I'll do another video, another dime on that. And you're going to determine how many milligrams of trend-blown in antherate are in your compound. And then there's a deck of one, too. I just don't have it here. But it's all up on daypaloment.com. These are invaluable, because you might be able to tell now, you might be able to tell if you have the real drug, but you never really know what the dosages. So guys, overdose on the stuff, because in a while, it's probably weak when I can tell. You can tell for trend antherate. You can tell for DACA. And you can tell for test-sip in antherate. And I can't wait to all the other ones to done. Likewise for the clem uterol. When you test your clem uterol with the e-vile, not only will you test to see if it's real, but it will also tell you the quantity of clem uterol in there. And that's just a one-tester. So that the clem uterol is really super all purpose. And of course, we still have the growth hormone testing kits, which is like a pregnancy test, except the test for GH. You dip your stick in, 20 seconds, put it on the table even for 20 minutes. One line, mean you have real GH, two lines, mean you got fake GH. Super easy. Guys, this is gonna save you so much time, effort and money. And the long run, please, I implore you. Test your drugs before you put them into your body. Unfortunately, there's a lot of fake stuff out there, and there's a lot of stuff that's nothing. So don't waste your time and money. Check out the new Roy test, and please testing system, and all the quantitative tests that daypalumma.com. I'm telling you, you will thank me later.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. I've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today is Thursday, June 30, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Thursday and happy July. Ladies and gentlemen, today is July 1st and I normally wouldn't go out of my way to say that. But today's the day that Breon Ansley officially starts his Olympia prep. So I figured what to heck. According to Breon, this is the latest that he's ever been. At the start of an Olympia prep, which he believes will be an advantage because he won't have to die as hard as he had to in the past to make way. Now, whether or not that strategy is enough to earn him back the title of remains to be seen. But I do think that approach is interesting. He made a strategic effort to put himself in the best possible position to win this year. And that adds another layer of intrigue to keep up with once we analyze everything else after it's all set and done. At different points in the season, you can see athletes starting to build momentum after they get things figured out. And more often than not, that momentum ends up leading to something down the road. And I think you can make a strong case for Mohamed Shabon being one of those athletes right now. He had a decent start to the season a few weeks ago at the Cal Pro. But he really kicked things into height here with his second place finish at the Puerto Rico Pro last weekend. Now you can feel the momentum starting to pick up as we head into one of the busiest stretches of the season. He's doing all the right things to make sure that he keeps getting better every time out. And I would not be surprised if he ended up sneaking in a win between now and the end of the summer to clinch and the Libya qualification and bring this whole thing whole circle. There are six weeks to go. All gas and no brakes. Those words came directly from Ian Valier on Monday. And in case you couldn't already tell, he's heading into the Tampa Pro next month, looking to play for keeps. A few weeks ago I heard that Ian's weight was floating somewhere around 270. And he was in good condition then, but he's even better now. The man knows how to work and that's been evidence throughout his entire career. Whenever he flips that switch, there is no turning it off, which means that it's pretty much a downhill sprint from now until Tampa. And if you can get out to the lead, I don't see anyone catching him from behind. We've talked a lot about the two 12 division and what the Olympian picture might look like later this year. And some stuff that we've seen so far in the schedule. But all in all, one of the names we haven't talked much about is Kamal Old Gardnae, which means that we haven't been doing our due diligence. Because the former two 12 Olympias champ is ready to take back the spotlight again. Earlier this week Kamal released the first official progress photo from his Olympia prep. And as usual, he looks like he's right on the money. Kamal has finished first second and third in his last real Olympias. So if there's anyone who knows what it takes to compete at the highest level, it's him. The man has been a winner throughout his entire career and he isn't showing any signs of slowing down. And since he's already made history more than once, I damn sure wouldn't be the one to say that he can't do it again. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm a staple of Olympo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

I'm gonna be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love it as show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Columbo and today is Thursday July 29th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Thursday, which means that the Tampa Pro is less than 10 days away now. And if you're a classic physique fan, the lineup in this show just became MUST-CTV. Now that Steve Llorious has officially thrown his name into the mix. In case you missed it on Monday, Steve caught everyone by surprise when he announced that he was planning to bring his talents to the stage in Tampa, which will be the first time that we've seen him compete since he took third at the Arnold Classic last March. We all know that when Steve is at the top of this game, that he's one of the most dangerous athletes in the division. So if he shows up firing on all cylinders, he can end up running away with this one before anyone even knows what hit them. Since we already talked about comebacks in classic physique, well it feels like this is the perfect time to slip in this brand new update from Robert Tim's. After basically dropping off the radar for the last few months, all of a sudden the former top 10 Olympian appeared in a big way a few days ago. When he posted a new progress photo along with an announcement that he was planning to make a big return, that to the division sometime within the next four weeks. According to Robert the plan is for him to weigh somewhere in the neighborhood of 260 pounds, the next time he steps on stage, which means that he's added at least 30 pounds of muscle since the last time we saw him two years ago. And since the Robert Tim's we saw then was good enough to be a top 10 Olympian. It should be interesting to see how this new and improved version stacks up again some of the other big names in the division. I'm ready to go, I just mentioned that the Tampa Pro is less than 10 days away now. So if you still have the board your tickets, you might want to get on that ASAP because rumor has it that Ian Valier is about to deliver some heat. So far this week we've already seen two new updates coming from Ian's camp, and all the signs seem to be pointing towards him bringing in a bigger and better version of what we saw when he plays second here a year ago. If you can remember back to last year, Tampa was the show that really laid the ground work for the rest of Ian season. And you'd imagine that he's probably looking to do the same thing this time around. That being said, if you can walk out there with a win instead of being forced to settle for second, I think it becomes a huge confidence booster moving forward. And I believe me when I tell you a confident Ian Valier is not a problem people want any part of solving. As of the time we recorded this Brazil had won five medals in the Olympics so far, but depending on who you ask, all five of those Olympic medals somehow feel, well less exciting for our Brazilian fans. Now that they know that Rafa Brande was finally starting to prep for his name this week, Rafa made headlines when he released two new updates including one, re-tag their own Chris Hasito saying that he was, he was, quote, ready to work. All things considered when Rafa's at the top of his game he's shown flashes of being one of the most talented athletes in bodybuilding. Depending on how things play out over the next few months his presence alone could have a major impact on the way the next half of the season plays out. And that does it the other edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palermo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they try to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Saitrice. Gustavo Badell showed that right off the bat and that was Ronnie's worst pose. That was Gustavo's best pose. I don't think it was my best pose but it was a good pose but I wouldn't want to go against Ronnie in any pose. That's how good Ronnie was but yeah that was Ronnie's worst pose everyone knew it you know. The funny thing was another really bad pose for Ronnie was the front last spread and it wasn't because it was a bad pose because he had a huge lathe and huge lights. He just didn't had to hit the pose. He hit it like a most musco like he was like flexing into it but his side tries to I don't know why he had problems and I think he just Ronnie wasn't the greatest poseer and I don't know if it had anything to do with the fact that he was so big or the fact that maybe he just you know he just didn't have the mind muscle connection because I'm sure he practiced because Ronnie was a consummate professional. He just wasn't that good at hitting the mandatory. I think it's hard to tell someone who's an eight-time Mr. Olympia you don't know how to hit the mandatory poses. I don't think anyone ever really worked with him to the degree that of deconstructing what he was doing and then building him up again because I think I think a lot of his poses could have been better but he was pretty but he knew at it what the poses he was good at he was so dominant and he didn't even matter you know.

. Brian Hildebrand with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 America Strongest Man. I'm with Mr. Brad Wolverine Dunn. I think we know why they call you Wolverine. I really don't have a clue. Okay, maybe. Your hair's a little messy though. It's a little messy though. I switched to a new gel. I might have to look into that. Yeah, I'll loan you some of my. You had a great day today. A little rough, a little rough. You had your your acts of clean and press looked amazing. You got clean without difficulty. Tell me. Yeah, man. I really, I came in. I, my whole intention was open in around 390. Then we got the the choices and the increments. So I went 393 warmups. We're just a breeze. I opened with 393 and I just flew up. I mean, the clean was easy. I didn't even feel like I had a lot of waste. It don't much just and I pressed it out. And so I felt like a 45 pound jump before it was actually. Conservative, you know, because I was really. I had my, my sights set on 430-ish. Coming in, which I felt like it was fully capable of. And, you know, botched that that first clean on this on the first attempt of 14 second attempt overall. And just, I don't know, I felt like if I had manners at clean, then I wouldn't had a problem with the press. But miss that clean and recleaning it and just slowing down and getting a little fatigued. Then come out here and repeat the same mistake on the 30th attempt. Get them off the ground easy. You don't make the transition and just go to flip that. Well, you know, maybe it's maybe I need to get a bar that doesn't rotate the train with. I don't know, but either way, I just, I just didn't deliver on that. That was lightweight off the ground. That non-rotating bar is a huge factor trying to get that up to your chest. I felt like I could have cleaned 450 based on those first cleans, but just didn't finish it. Tell me about the wheelbarrow. It was a really tough event today. It was way harder than I thought it was. I really didn't know what to expect. I mean, you'll be able to strap in, you know, I'm thinking, I don't know how hard do this be, but it was. Carl Finnell's wife goes, how did that feel? I said, it was the strangest overall bodily pain I felt in a long time. I felt like seven different things were trying to break all at once. You know, there's hard steps and at one point in time. I just about hyper extended my right knee and I'm like, man, it was just brutal. And I just managed, it sloppy as I felt. I managed to decent carry on it and I really needed a good finish to the night after some disappointments. And, you know, I think I got fourth on that. But it was brutally hard. I just felt it all through out my body and it was rough. Yeah, it was a, a lot of guys had a really difficult time pulling that up. I was surprised. Some of the guys I, I mean, some of the guys expect to do well did. You know, the guys I expected would do well because I went, I think, second. I'm thinking, well, these guys are going to kill it. Man, there was definitely a struggle out there. It was an interesting event. Yeah, man, Mike, Mike Johnson was telling us about the big dog strong built the apparatus and it held up. But I don't think that the hitch from the, she built by Chevy is going to survive. Hopefully, Alan Tillery, let's just use the truck next year. But after they inspect that one, I don't know, man. Let's see what it looks like when they get it back. You look forward to tomorrow. Yeah, I mean, you know, I'm a little further back than where I wanted to be. I'm really not sure where the overall Sania is or what they look like right now. And, you know, kind of bots to those fellstone after having some good training, whether it just made a little mistake. And that's all it takes. But yeah, tomorrow, I mean, cake toss is the first thing. You know, not something, I guess, a short guy would really be looking forward to. But I think I can get some pop and, you know, train has been going well and that had been also. So, you know, hopefully just have a good start to the day. The overhead and deadlift medley, you know, should be decent enough for me and, Stone train has been going well. So we'll see if I can show up tomorrow and, really dial in, then maybe I can get that top four top five spot. I was looking forward to. Good. Yeah, just good recovery tonight and get some meat. That's it. You'll just get recovery. Take it easy. Good night's rest. Come up tomorrow and, you know, just like the score is zero zero zero. Exactly. Starting all over tomorrow. Exactly. Right, bro. All right. Great. Thanks for your time. Nice job. Today we'll see you tomorrow. One o'clock. We'll be back here in Hot Springs, Arkansas at the San Margarina for the Marcos Strongest Man. 2011 Part Two for events tomorrow. We'll see you then. Absolutely. Brian Hilderbrand with rxmuscle.com.

Downey Phrynd Wenter Brian Hook, member with our X muscle.com. We just finished the Atlas Stones winter Mr. Dave Oslin, Dave tell me about that last stone. You know, it actually felt like I got off a little bit of a slow start and then once I got going, I got going a little bit faster. They felt good so I just, you know, didn't hesitate right when I got to it just grabbed and picked it up felt great. You know, I've been doing this 10 years. I've always gone bare arm. Finally, my buddy Brian Shaw convinced me to try his sleeves and they're absolutely awesome. So if you want to get better at stone, Shaw, Shaw strength sleeves, elite tacky, that's the winning combo. And again, I'd shake your hand but I'm smarter than that with all that tacky on the front of you. But more importantly, with your win here, solidifies you second place overall and which gives you Travis will be our winner. But that gives you the invite to the world's strongest man. Yeah, we'll see, you know, if it's a full slaughter and alternate spot, but either way, I'm thrilled to get back there. It'll be seventh year in a row there and, you know, I love doing this. I'm, you know, couldn't be more pleased with that. Yeah, you've had a good strong showing this weekend. Then necessarily at the top, but right up there with everybody, the whole time and certainly giving enough points to the three and a second, pretty soundly. Yeah, I mean, I was kind of, you know, last night on the wheelbarrow seventh, I wasn't really happy with that result, but everything else I think was all top five and most of the top three's. And finally, it was nice to get him to met one to finish the day. You know, that felt good. And yeah, I'm pretty, pretty pleased overall, but I know I've got room to come back to be at 100%. So I'm excited to train the next month and get ready. Good. All right. Well, congratulations. Good luck in North Carolina. And we will see you then again, congratulations on your win with the Atlas stones. Wrap it up, Brian Hill to brave with rxmuscle.com from the 2011 America strongest man in hot springs are console.

Lol. Brian Hill to Brad with rxmuscle.com. Let's have a fel stone. Mike absolutely tremendous. 400 pounds stone. You had a tremendous pick. Tell me, tell me about it. You know, I did the same event in the Arnold and I picked it like everybody else was picking it and it didn't go very well. And I trained with Brian Shaw. So he changed the way I grabbed it. He showed me how to grab it his way, which is the way you guys saw with one hand underneath and I feel real comfortable with this event and I came here planning on winning this event. This is one of my strong events. So, I'm good. Yeah, you're just a little bit gas right now to Mike's shouting over the top of us, but you had a tremendous performance. 120 sum of feet, way out past everybody. Terrific. You're moving on now, the fourth event tonight, the wheelbarrow, the truck wheelbarrow behind us. And how, what are you thinking about that? You're gotten a gas left? Ah, you know my hamstrings are cramping up. So we'll see what happens. And I haven't trained this event. First of all, I've ever even done this event or even touched it. So we'll see how it goes. I'm hoping to maintain, be middle of the pack. So, and are you guys using straps for this event or no? Right, yes, we are. They're allowing it and I'm using them. Yeah, I don't blame it. But yeah, gotta have them. All right, Mike Burke, the winner of the Hoosefell Stone tonight, the America Strongest Man, will be back shortly with a wheelbarrow. Until then, Brian Hill to Brown with RXMuscle.com.

Brian Hildebrand with RXMuscle.com. Here with the winner today's second event, the Yoke and Harley Slidpool Travis Orton, the Yoke and Harley Slidpool Travis. 9 out of 50 pound Yoke is a big pain. How much gas did it take to pull that sled? You know, that was really happy with the Yoke first off. I was probably one of the best ones I've ever had with that. So I saved a lot of energy and the sled actually felt pretty good. The secret with that, with the slick floor like this, is to really get a hard start and get the momentum going. And fight to keep the momentum in the matter how bad your legs are burning. Just keep going. I knew you had incredible foot speed on the Yoke and just absolute determination to get through the line. Not let that sled stop, which is really as a key. Yeah, absolutely. I really had to fight the pain in my leg from that ankle break in last year. You suck it up, take the pain and it feels better once you get that first place. First place always feels better, right? All right, well congratulations. And a good start with the axle today too. How heavy did you go? I got 393. It was should have been my second attempt and I wanted at least 15 pounds more than that. But you know, sometimes you got to take what you can get. So it was a strong press. And when it heavy today at the axle, which was really great to see for the Americans. Yeah, there was a lot of over 400 attempts and really strong guys. I mean, 363 pounds took last place. So yeah, that says a lot. All right. I'm here again with Travis Sort and Meyer. America's strongest man, 2011 Brian Hilderbrand for rxmuscle.com.

Day 2 655 Breing, held in Remember UXMSAL.com. here, the America Strongest Man Day 2 and Hot Springs Arkansas Travis Ord, my winner, not only twice yesterday, but you want to get today the kick toss first event. Hey, I guess it's a good start today too. I, you know, wanted at least three events yesterday, so I'm going to go for all four to make up for it today. You got the push pole medley coming up next. It looks brutal. Yeah, that's five events, you know, cleaner press than deadlift, so it's an upper body and then a lower body and just that up and down is just going to be absolutely a killer. Good, all right. Well, go get warmed up and hopefully we'll see you here after this next event. It's Bryan Heldibra with ourXMuscle.com.

Brian Helderman, theerxmuscle.com 2011 America Strongest Man. We're working on the first time with our overall winner, the returning champion, Travis Orret Meyer, Travis, huge weekend. And Dianne tells me you've got more planned next weekend. Actually USA vs. Russia is a two-man team competition. So, you know, no rest for the weary. Just go home. I'm home for a day and then I get on a plane go overseas to Russia. So, this is...

the real run, gedaan with our Brian Helderman with our Exmuscle.com, event number six for the weekend, event number two for today, events are back, our winner of the five event medley press and deadlift. Absolutely brutal. Thank you. Thank you. We're well and training and I knew that not wearing any straps would be key. So grip strength came in and helped me win this event. Yeah, not too many guys grab the axle without straps today. Yeah, it's definitely helped speed up my tongue. And your tremendous tremendous pressure. So it was I was fully expected to see what you did out there with your presence. Thank you. I appreciate absolutely a look terrific. Go back and rest it and hopefully we'll see you again here in the next one. Good. Brian Helderman with our Exmuscle.com.

I am working with Zach and they're working with him over a year now. The guy is an absolute freak. I'll tell you this. I'm telling first of all, I got to tell you he's got a tremendous work ethic. The guy works his bottle off. Anything I tell him to do he does. He's a machine. He's so big right now. I dieted him down. He was going to do shows. But as you know, in the UK, it's almost impossible to compete anywhere. They can't travel. It was a nightmare. He was in shape. I had him in contact a shape for about two months straight. We were looking for a show from the do. He just couldn't do it. I got him working with Chris Cormier on his posing. Him and Chris are like friends now. His posing was terrible. And now he's working on that. His presentations really good. He's going to roll him out in 2021 and he's going to, I think, surprise a lot of people. He made a lot of improvements to his physique. He's been focused. He sends me updates twice a week. I make sure he's in check. He's like I said, he's very methodically eats his food. He does everything he's supposed to do. And he's getting better and better, which is amazing. It's incredible that guy towards both quads. And had to have him reattach twice because they made him a stake the first time. And his quads look really good still. So I mean, he's like I said, when you have genetics, it's a wonderful thing. He's got a lot of muscle on his body. Once again, his biggest problem was he couldn't control the mussely had. It was almost like a pole to let issue. So I really had him working hard with any still working with Chris Cormira on that. Viscipe. So between Chris and I, I think we're going to have him tweaked out in perfect, you know, ready to roll in 2021. And look, you know, he has never done anything on a pro level. You know, he was a very popular amateur. He's probably the most popular guy when you go to the expos and you see him sitting in a booth because he's an absolute freak in nature. But I can't wait to get him on stage because the trick would be we can get him to place, you know, top five, top six at a pro show. I think that would be a huge feather in his cap. So a lot of people thought he was not capable of that. But I'm telling you, when you work hard and you've got genetics, you could accomplish anything.

Day of Columbus with another RX muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1. Today's topic is going to be a good one because Andre Rush is the White House chef, for one of the White House chefs that works there. This guy is unbelievable. A lot of people have been reporting on him from news agencies all over the world because it seems to be the story of the week. I know Nick over at Nick's strength and power did a really good description of what's going on over there as well. But I wanted to talk about this guy because I think a lot of people have a lot of doubts about him. First of all, he's 45 years old. He's a retired military guy for many years. I think he was in the service for over 20 years, something like that. He's now cooking. I don't know how he got the job at the White House. Great job. But the guy is huge. He's got 24 inch arms. He's almost 320 pounds, something like that. He's just an enormous guy. He's got tremendous obviously strip. He claims that he can bench press. He does like four sets of like 450 on the bench for like 25 reps. He also claims he's done a 700 pound bench press. And he also claims that he eats ridiculous amounts of food. I think he eats four whole chickens. It doesn't eggs every day. Two protein shakes. And you don't have to find any of these people like always lying. They're sensationalized in the story. I don't believe they are. I've seen guys like this in prison. He prison food and look like this. I've seen guys that die in gym when we did our brothers, brothers, lifting, ridiculous amounts of weights, also with tremendous arms and tremendous strength who have done this. And you got to remember, the guy's been working at his whole life. He's 45 years old. He was in the military. He trained, he eats, he lives the lifestyle. And he just happens to have tremendous genetics. If Ronnie Coleman never went into professional bodybuilding and he ate like this, I guarantee that's what Ronnie would have looked like. Because I saw Ronnie before he's ever taken a single gesteroid. And this guy was enormous. He was leaning. And he was leaning. So, you got to remember, Andre Rush is not ripped. So some of his body weight is body fat, but he's tremendously proportioned. I guess that's the best way. The thing that's impressively is everyone likes arms. Okay, let's face it. Arms and chest is the showing body part, right? That's what impresses people. They don't look at legs. We don't even know what this guy looks like. But his upper body is huge. And he's got the tremendous shoulders, arms and chest. And that's what enables you to bench press. Heavy heavy weights. This guy's made for bench press. I'm sure if you ever had a bench press coach and they taught him some technique. He probably break every raw bench press record. Now he claims he does 700 pounds. I'm sure it's a bounce off the chest. 700, which is still insane. By any means, if you've ever seen anyone even bench press 600, it's the most impressive thing you'll ever see. 700 bends the bar. Okay? I've seen Jimmy Pilechia bench press 800 pounds. For one walk or rep. But who cares if it's sloppy or not? The guy's not trying to say bench press records. He's not doing official meats. He's just telling you how strong he is. And I've seen guys do that type of weight. So when you try to say, well, the world raw bench press record is only 700, whatever pounds don't compare it to that. What he does is gymlifting. Okay? Probably someone gives him a lift with the weight. He bounces off his chest a little bit. But that's 700 pounds. If you can bounce 700 pounds with your chest and get that lock out on that, you did 700 pounds. I'm sorry. That's the fact. And once again, I've seen some serious legitimate lifting at these bro's verse pros competitions that I've held over the last five years. And I was astounded by some of the lifts that some of these guys can do. We've seen some big chef over there, Dimonship, I got to give his props. Seeing him do 600 pounds. Okay? It wasn't a pretty 600 pounds, but he got that weight up. And I was once again super, and that was after lifting at the event the whole day. So there's guys out there who can lift and who are genetically made to be strong and big. And when you eat that kind of food that this guy is eating to support what he's doing, you can tell the guy's not super ripped. He's just big looking. And I don't know why people are doubting him, but I'm super impressed. I love to get him on my live with Talk Show. We're going to reach out to him, I think. I want to really hear how he got into that job of the White House. But this guy is not only a strong, not only a good person, but he also is a great chef, you know, and that's something that he was able to parlay. Think about it. He was a military guy, Fias, to find another passion that you're good at. Okay? Is something that's unique in our industry. I think a lot of people, they are afraid to recreate themselves. Andre Rush recreated himself three times. Once as a military man, okay? As a bodybuilder, power lifter, and now as a chef, and you know, I'm sure when he leaves, I think he's saying he's going to leave the White House, he's going to start his own like business or something like that outside. I'm sure he'll be successful at that because he's got the work ethic. And that's why he's so successful what he does. That's why he's lifts his own press of, but the guy lives the lifestyle. He eats the food, he puts it down. Your people always doubt him, Vic Richards. Oh, Vic Richards, this Vic Richards that he sensationalized everything. But the guy was enormous. He was over 300 pounds. He was one of the most impressive looking guys in the gym he's ever seen. You know, yeah, all right, he never competed in a pro bodybuilding show, but who cares? He was the most, the most talked about guys of the 80s and 90s. So, you know, it goes back to say, what do you try to accomplish? Everyone has their own niche. Not everyone wants to be Mr. Olympia, not everyone wants to be the strongest guy on a parallel thing stage. Okay, some guys just like to be impressive looking in person. You know, look at the guy from what's his name from the green mile that movie he died recently. But I forget his name. Michael Duncan Clark. Michael Clark Duncan. He was crazy impressive to me. He was a huge dude. And I guarantee he probably never took any drugs. He probably just ate and worked out. You know, and that's just the way his genetics work. Just like some guys are super skinny and super ripped. This genetic variation in the human population. And if you embrace what your genetics are, you'll be great at it. And that's what Michael, that's what Andre Rushes. So guys, you know, it's always great to showcase someone outside of the bodybuilding world who embraces our bodybuilding lifestyle. And now they're on day polonbo with another RX muscle rant.

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 7, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Back in the day, anytime someone would say they wanted to train with me, I'd always bring them in for a leg audition to see if they were actually built to handle the grind. And I can tell you right now without even going through the process that classic physique rookie, a mid-roy would have passed the bar, no problem. Over the weekend we saw aroyanist team release a clip from one of their last leg workouts heading into the Tampa Pro, where we catch the former North American overall champ, pouring out every last ounce of everything that he's got. Roy is one of those athletes who just sucks you in with his energy and his work ethic to the point that you can't not love them if you're a fan of the sport. So now that he's gotten his first few taste of what it is to compete at this level, I think we can only expect him to keep getting better from here on out. Speaking of classic physique rookies, I like what I've been seeing lately from 20 year olds in session, Jonathan Hamburg. Last week, Hamburg and his team released a few new progress photos that show him looking lean in mean with an alleged 40 pounds of quality muscle since he won his pro-card at the NPC Junior USA's back in June. But that's actually so young right now makes Hamburg a really interesting case study to me because at this point, everything is so new to him that you really don't know what his ceiling is. But if he's in this for the long haul and he can manage to stay consistent, I can see this kid turning into a real force and the pro-lee for some point here in the next few years. Growing up, one of the things I remember loving about the iconic former World Heavyweight boxing champ Joe Fraser was that he really wasn't much of a talker. He just went out there, knocked dudes damn near dead with his left hook, and then went on and got back to business. And I'm not sure what men's physique all start branding Hendrix's left hook looks like, but I can tell you that this dude is definitely about his business with five weeks to go now before he makes his annual trek back to the Olympia stage, the current number three ranked athlete in the world is looking like he's dangerous as ever. And when this guy's full and didn't shape, I don't think there's anyone else in the division who's got the sort of 3D athletic look that he does. But with this year's Olympia looking like it may be the deepest ever, he better make sure he brings it if he wants to have a real shot at the title. With all the crazy tariff and trade war stuff going on right now, the cost of importing goods in this country is really all over the place. But hopefully, some many out there can make a few calls so we can lift the restrictions for end-fuego bikini import, i.e. a pecini, with three top two finishes and a win at the Pittsburgh pro, or the on a resume this year. The second year pro has been an absolute tariff from the word go all season long. During last year's rookie campaign, pecini came in to the Olympia weekend relatively unknown. But walked out of there with everyone in the building, knowing her name after a red-hot night play finish. With the improvement in such he's made and some of the stuff that we've seen in the division already this year, to me, she's one of the more interesting prospects in the lineup. And I wouldn't be entirely shocked that she found a way to work up into the top six range where she'd really established herself as one of the elite talents in the division. Somebody's going to have to check the water for me over there on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean because every time I turn around, I'm saying some new beast of a guy emerge from out of the woodwork. And over the weekend, I caught myself getting sucked into following Fran spanking new IFV pro, Jeznezine. The Zeme one is pro card early this year at the amateur Olympia in Spain where he won the super heavyweight in overall titles with one of the more impressive looks that I've seen all year long at the amateur level. Even right now, Nezeme has a few poses where he looks like he could hold his own against some pretty high level talent. And it'll be interesting to see if he considers hopping into one of those European tour shows after the Olympia, just so we can see how he stacks up against some of the best guys in the pro division. That does it yet another addition of him bustle in the morning. On day below, reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car mock tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love it to show. This is our best place to be in LA. When you're asleep, they're just getting started. John, D's, after hours. Welcome back to After Hours, I'm D. Pulum, though, in John and Monos in Limbo right now, but he'll be joining us later, but I'm here with my good friend Greg Valentino to start the show off. What's up, Greg? And not much, I'm still in shock of a ricochet, because I'm not that he was a good guy and he knew Rick my God, 40-something years. Yeah, you know, it's funny because Rick and I would have this relationship where we would, you know, he would come on my show, I'd go and his show, we would talk like almost every day texting and stuff at that, and then we wouldn't talk for a while, but then he could just call me up out and know where I could call him out and know where we would just talk for like, you know, like 45 minutes an hour. He's just that kind of guy, you didn't have to like, you didn't have to like try to be his friend, if you were his friend, you were his friend, you know, and, uh, absolutely. It's weird because his son did a video on his channel saying that his dad had, you know, Rick had a knee replacement, I guess sometimes what happens is you get these infections and these joint replacements, that's what scares me when I show this. And once they, if you get an infection in that joint, and they got a cake that joint down, the artificial joint, and they got to put like antibiotic beads in there, and they can't put the joint back in right away. They got to go back like six weeks later and do it. So he was in the process of having that happen and he said his dad was doing well. And then like four days later, he was like, so I don't know really what the cause of death was officially. To me, you know, from what Rick was saying, he was having trouble breathing, it almost sounds COVID-ish, you know, I don't know if it was, but, uh, it wasn't. What, what, what, so what was it? John Romano, yeah. Yeah, what he had kidney issues, yeah, stuff was just a little bit. Yeah, he had a kidney. Yeah, but John, I mean, COVID affects all the organs, heart, you know, especially in older people, heart, kidney. That's, specifically on the, on the thing I read online, it had nothing, no COVID involvement at all. Well, they don't, we don't know because there wasn't, you think they were at a COVID test on them? I run a COVID test if you go to the fucking dentist, they run a COVID test everywhere. Yeah. He's right about that. I can take it. I've taken on a how many COVID testaries. I won the Y was reporting that he was having trouble breathing though. That was what, um, was it? He wrote it himself. Have you been following his, yeah, no, he said he was breathing. He had breathing problems though. Right. Right. That's why it was saying, but he said not, but he's, but he said not, but related. Oh, okay. All right. Well, you know, who knows? The fact is that we lost him. I mean, I don't know if maybe at a heart attack, you know, it's part of the world. It's possible, you know, he's 76. He was very, he was very ill. He'd be sick and then not do videos for a while. Then he came back. Oh, he's out. So this is going on. I got to be going on. He's been going on. He's been going on in the hospital all year. I remember back when I was work when I was a man, I had labs and stuff. I could talk with him, you know, I've done videos with Rick. And he, you know, he would be out for a while and come back. Because his health was not so great, you know? He reminds me of like a, well, he was older obviously, but he reminds me of a done to rip a rust, you know, like a hardcore body built into a rude, like, you know, guy for life, you know, type of thing. And I thought he didn't, he designed the joke, the joke, the joke, the gold. The gold, Jim logo in the world. Jim logo in the world. And the world, Jim logo. Yeah. He actually, he drew a gold, you know, the gold, Jim guy. He drew me in like an original like a little drawing of it and signed it for me. I have it up on my wall. I kind of put it up on my video. I should have just a world Jim eighth too, right? Yeah. Yeah. He did, he did all this. Do you know what's funny? He, he, he, he, he, he, he could play piano too. I'm not the piano to put the guitar. He's a good guitarist. He's an artist. All the fuckers. He was a very, he was very artistic. He was like, and, uh, do you read the ball? I can't believe I got on this fucking thing. I'm in the truck. I got to install this and install that. Press this, put your name. Put your, I'm going to the truck over here. You did it. You did it. You pulled it off. But then what happened? Well, hello, what happened to you? What happened to you last week? Press that. I, we all in the show. We just bullshit. We're each other right now. We're always on the show. You're always on the show. I didn't know because you know, I, I fucked up. I'm over here to fuck it on the very work finally over here. I did the Brooklyn, I don't know. You've been done it. Great. What's the next time you're just a Brooklyn bro? Well, I've been, uh, probably about two, three months ago. But let me tell you something. That fucking van Wick when I was in high school. That, the bill parkway, they were working on that. Here we are fucking 40 some years later. It's still working on it. Well, I'm an expressway too. Fucking exit from the Bronx. They bridge. They work on that for 45 fucking years. But there's a lot. And I think it's going to be shit. I was on the fucking bed. There's a classic, there's a classic sign fell down. So where, Elaine has got this guy staying with her. And he wants to get rid of him. And she oversleep, striving him to the airport. And she's like, I'm going to get him here. And he's like, there's no way we're going to make it. We only have 15 minutes. He's like, she's like, oh, make it. I'll make it. And then she hits the van Wick expressway. Because that's the ultimate joke if you are great. Van Wick is like, you can be flying. And then all of a sudden you hit the van Wick. And it's like, bumper to bumper. Nineteen 76, right? I got my license. I was driving on that fucking road. And he would do already do construction. It's scary. It's a scary road. Let me try your memory. I think I look at the van Wick. He's the fucking van Wick right now. I'm going to talk to him. I was just the way, the like, Dave said I was cruising along. I got a load on. I got to do great fucking time. I get off the condo and bam, very weak. And then it says, accident. Three lanes close. The race. It's actually three lanes on the van Wick. Hey, three lanes is a fucking load. What the fuck is that mean? There's only three lanes on his phone. The fucker. The mean's your a bit. It means you're a deep shit. It means you're going to be sitting there for a whole time. I should have got off this car, suck up. I shouldn't have went down the car, though. It's a fucking Springfield. I went through Jamaica. That's what I usually fucking somebody said. I don't mean that's my game. I'm coming down this fucking fucking hell. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, look at this. I'm in a parking lot. I'm in a shit. Don't you fucking open. Fucking bullshit. Look at the other side. Look at the other side. It's flying. Look at the other side. I'm in a really slow. When you're on it. But when you're on it, but when you're on it, I think the fucking hell I eat. Well, you guys live. I think that's worse. Oh, I didn't get today. Yeah, Greg. Wait. I still got to get on that one. The fucker. That's what I'm going right now. The fucking hell I eat. Wait, talk to you. I mean, I'll be at all it costs a fuck. I'm doing a single fucking New York shit. I don't know about you, Greg. I am fucking tired. I absolutely do. You say it. I want to throw up. That's what I'm saying. I'm sick of it. You know what's funny though with the LIE? Does not just you'd stuck it traffic. And then you start moving a little bit. And then they tell you, on exit this, and it's going to be traffic. They warn you. But then there's no, but there's no reason. There's no construction. I just think people float out. I'm not. I was just coming down to God. I'm doing. Clearers are fucking. Clearers have. Right? I'm coming all the sudden. I see all these red lies. I said, should I get off? I said, nah, I'm not. I fucking. I could have got off. I still haven't stayed at God, dude. I stand at God, though, it's pop, but I'm pop, but this is just before. Before I got it in the bear with. I said, all this stuff. I fucking hour. What did that all said I got this? Found that shit. And then I always cones. And I'm going to all these cones. It's single-file. I get up there, bro. There's nobody there. That's just... That's just... I'm going to walk it about. That's what you said. You're going to walk it about. Yeah, sure. You're going to walk it about. Yeah, sure. You're going to walk it about. No, but that's what I think. You're going to do it in night. Do it in night. Do it in night. Right, motherfucker. No, motherfucker. I don't understand. Well, the time. Like, that's fine. Remember when Howard Stern ran for the lieutenant governor of New York? Right. You learned that? Yeah, he said he was going to only do construction at night. Right? Yeah, he said he was going to only do construction at night. Oh, holy. It's bad. Don't New York is there for no reason traffic. I mean, the LIE to me, there's no reason. Even tell you, from it's in here to here, it's going to be traffic. For for reason. There can be a fucking guy down the Eastbound Lake. Pull over take a leak. There's fucking traffic. Back to five miles. Because everybody's got to watch this. Cooks like the technical leaks. On the Eastbound Lake. You can't see what's going on in 60 miles. All you must find out is that you got the little. I mean, really come on. Yeah, but you know what my question is. He's going to relance guys. My question. I got a question to you. My question is. Nowadays, you have the GPS. It can tell you where the traffic is. You know exactly how long you're going to be sitting there. You know everything. Is it worse to actually know how bad the traffic is or was it better years ago when you kind of didn't know what you were really in for? That's the question. Well, I'm going to flip phones. I got a fucking flip phone. So I don't know. Let's take out my girlfriend in the car. You know what they do now? Yeah. We launched the drone out of the sunroof. Yeah. People want to know what the hell's going on. It's just the drone out of the sunroof. They go out. This is going to look five miles ahead and they can see what's wrong. And then they bring the drone back into the sunroof. You know, you don't need to do that. It's on your GPS phone. It's on the iPhone. We'll tell you. Yeah, but you can't see. When you got the drone up in the air, you got the screen. I've got the screen. I've got the screen. But my question is, what do you know? My question is, you really want to know. Wait, go. I wish I could talk to that guy and say, what the fuck's going on back? John, do you really want to know how bad it is? So that's the question. Of course you want to know. You want to want to draw enough there and see what it is. I don't want to know how bad it is. I want to know. I want to know if should I get out? Should I walk over there and take a week? Should I? Should I go any minute now? Should I freaking smoke another joint? Wait. I don't know. You can't trust that fucking thing. I've found that out. They showed it red line to purple line to pink line. They when you get up there. It's why open. They save people on the way to the channel. Oh, no. Fucking out right there. Can't get on the way to the fucking going on. Bro, you remember the 70s? Back when it would have an old burned-out car. So like on the side of the road. Fucking human. They didn't even fucking throw that shit out of there. And the 70s. And remember, there would be these demolished cars. You're taking like the eggs that you're on. And there'd be like four of them. How do fuck did they get? They're a whole henry Hudson. They were already spent. They're up on cement blocks. There's no beautiful thing in there. Look at what living in there. They're living in there now. No, no. In back then, they were living in those fucking, or they were like holes of car. You don't need to crawl with gets stolen or get fucking broken down. And all along the fucking west side, I would like to, you know, in the Henry Hudson to be all fucking shells of cars. She's at a side of the road. Holy shit, man. I remember the, yeah, homeless would live in there. But you're driving on the van. Where can you find them on the cross island? You fight. You're driving. Leave them there. They're not. No, it's even the one here. There was on the exit to the Pellon Parkway from, I think, 27 or whatever that road is. And you learn of it. Okay. The big, long sweep in turn, right? And it, and, and it's nothing. Nothing in the middle of that thing. It's grass. Except for one tree. How many fucking cars hit that tree? Like 30 of them. They all hit the fucking trees. I seen them a lot of cycle hit that tree. And the guy was dead. I said, I ran over and I was like, oh, fuck. He's done. Is he real? You've watched. Yeah, that as somebody. You know what I'm talking of. You were always going, yeah, because you're going fast around it. And then you look like a co-op city. Right? Right? Right? You go fast. And then you lose it. And you hit the fucking tree. That's what he's the top. It's nothing. It's abandoned for acres. It's nothing. One fucking tree. Oh, my God. You got to see all the fucking cop cars up here. Oh, shit. So anyway, my brother, I told my brother would happen day by Tell him that story, right? Yeah. And I told him that I called you up and you didn't fucking answer like You was you. And I was going off on your voice man, right? Because I could get on the show because it would happen. So my brother goes, he says, well, he goes, people are really getting to know what you're really about because you are not to show your call day. And you're fucking, who are going not to the phone. That's really you. People don't know it. Oh, they know what they do. But they show. They don't know it. I'm like this all the fucking time. I think we know it Jimmy. You know what's worst though? When it got the fucking protestor standing across the road. And you can't go. You got to go. You got to pick a shit or something. You trying to drive and then his all protests on the road. That's the good. I've heard him. You're going to play the voice, Mel. I probably got it. Let me look at it. Put it in first gear. Go about five miles an hour. Just drive right through them. I don't know if they did like animals. The jiffy. You know, beat your car. I'm trying to break the window. Whatever. If they do that, then you're then you're doing self defense. You're doing it over. He did it to me. When they took me out in Mount Sinah hospital. Stop. Don't call. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. You hear me out there, like theส helı 好! Bala defame. It's just a Japanese beginning. You fry ur own coat It beats yours yourself. When he ends in sync People- I'll keep your foot here before I stand there where I'm born. You would think I planned on this project. The actor, the stuntman, a father, a wrestler, a man in Terry, and the fact that Rick is not like that. Rick traces the first one to throw a huge group of girls you've learned in the girls you've bought. Throwing out that they don't know that. So today I have a special guest to be and Rick was also a peatie. Yeah, that's like a fun kid. How's that video? Today I have Captain Mary's brain father here. He's a special guest to be a couple of stories. Here he is. Ah, the one, the only top dead of the record is him. Jesus. Dude, I feel like I want you to tell a band video. Yeah, I mean, I'm wasting the band. Oh, that's George. That's not George. That's George. How is that George? In 1726. Take a easy top. He's just like lives music. I was like a, it was like a child of this all. Yeah. Good. So. That's all about your answer. Maybe you have to do this. I opened, I'll be using picking up on that meditation version of this. God, dude, what are we watching at gong show? Yeah, can we got, where's the gong? Did you get me a gong, Tyler? Come on, come on! Come on, come on! Oh, God, baby, it's all right! Fuse, Dave. What's the name of the host? What's the name of the host? What's the name of the host? I forgot his name. We'll be right back. It's a barris. It's a barris. It's a barris. It's a barris. It's a barris. You remember? We'll be right back for some more stuff. Yeah. And then they had what's the main gene and dancing machine? Oh, no. I always wonder. Can you cut the ball? Tyler, I'm getting a headache. Dave, can you imagine if somehow, if the dog ate this? Look at this crew. They got them zorn by the clandic and another solar system. Yeah. And he examples humanity on earth. This is what they want to come and visit. God, they said that they said on the side that the right lane was blocked. The two right lanes on the bad way, right? Those are the signs. So I would have like to as a truck I could over and over. Oh, because it says that the fucking red lanes blocked, right? Look, I get up and it's got something's in the left lane. I got over here because they said the right lane was blocked. I let them be jailed by the left lane. I mean, it all is the same idea. The back was just fucking motherfucking fucking fucking fucking fucking dead. I got that wrong and it's something to hear over there. You better get up on the altar to laugh. That's the fucking train, bro. That's all I'm saying. That's what you need. The funny thing is, I don't, John, I don't know if you heard it in that voice or you're not me, he was like, I'm going around dead bodies here. I'm going to run and dead bodies. Don't push you, Dave, that day. That's what that story I was going to tell you about when I called you. Yeah. My ambe blue, a few days prior to that story. And I called my boss. I said, oh, Cliff of ambe blue when my truck I need another ambe. Oh, I'm going to take that ambe. I run and to the storm. I'm going to mention that I said, it's a 96 meter belt. Why are you going to take the ambe out? I'm going to run and to the storm match it up. What do we get? Can you go? Hold up. Tell me, got a 96 meter belt. I mean, fucking it. There's one ambe in the back. No, I don't get the ambe. Three days later. I'm in fucking Brooklyn. The other ambe. Close. Right? I hear it on the fucking on the conduit. I said, oh shit. I said, I'm fucking. I'm going to keep going. All of a sudden, there's always traffic. I got killed and the road is under a tractor trail. Dead. I'm going to now. I was working to traffic. My ass leaking out of there. I get down. I get fired and passed down. It's a car fire on the conduit. I'm finally getting passed down. They're going down at the end of the evening with another car fire. And also they're going to yell at me. And I lose all my air in my brakes. And I'm running down yell at me. All right. I'm all set of tech and easy buddy. All set up everybody's pissing me off. They're fucking waving and beeping and waving and beeping. I'm like, I worry. Everybody's very friendly today. I've ever seen this before. You know, all the sudden, look at my mirrors. I don't see nothing. Let me pull the fuck over. I pull over. I fucking back wheels are on fire. I'm not going to stop everywhere. And I've heard the fire we stay with you. I got two shots out of the motherfuckers. And it dies. Right now I want to burn in. I've got a fucking step back. I said, it's not fire. I'm not going to stop. It's not fire. It's just fire. I just like. That's what I call Dave. I was like, I was like, I was at the day from hell. Just driving. How do you put the fire out? I have a lot of days from hell. The guy we stand under the truck, John, out of fucking white sheet over a brothel. Oh, that's fine. Police, you were alive. He had to put the fire out. I got a couple of squeezes on the fire. I got a couple of squeezes on the fire. And then the fire, the fire, he's there. I got like two three shots out of it. I got a fart on the fire and put it out. Probably. Right once a last time you had to check your blood pressure. I got to check the light. I got to. I got to have the job afraid to check it. I'm worried about you brother. You started to put have like Derek Anthony syndrome. I got to get vein in your neck. You know. Oh, my God. Get help. This is the same day. Shit. Put up with it. You got to do my slide. You must like it secretly. Jimmy, you got to come down here. You know I did that. This is what I'm doing right now. I got the fuck out of it. But you keep saying you're getting it. You never leave. You never leave. You never leave. Come stay with me. Seriously. I'm worried about you. I'm worried about you. I'm worried about you. I'm worried about you. Just can you just come stay with me? It's like a couple weeks. But he's got to leave the truck up in New York. Yeah. Bring your heart. Bring your motorcycle. I'm leaving. John, I'm taking a few days. I'm not driving down the sea. No, I'm not you. I'm not you. I'm not you. I can't fucking tell you. Yeah. Yeah.. Well.. Don't be afraid. You're not even lying that the truck is so smart. I'm sorry. I'm a little confused. You got to give him my motorcycle. You're not into my motorcycle. Keep my motorcycle. You've got to interrogate me. No, I mean, he knows the bad. There's probably a problem. There's tons of stuff. I don't think it's just paid shot. Just paid. Here. Where's the key body? You got to come saw. Ha ha ha ha. What the fuck is that? It's an empty bottle. It's an empty soap bottle. I see there's something I put it down like this. And I'm sitting and talking and guys are... Ha ha ha ha. Dude, I always have fucking, I always have a Polish print bottle. I always have a guy. You're coming. You're gonna tell your funny story about that. You're gonna tell your funny story about that. I forgot that name. Wow. Wait, this is a great story. So I'm in a limo which Steve Blackley one day. Did you notice that you noticed that Greg was kind of... Did you notice that Greg... Greg showed that bottle again, specifically at the top. Yeah, I got this. Okay, see, see the size of that, all right. Now, I'm getting back at a limo from the air, but we're stuck in traffic and Steve Blackley shows me the coke bottle. Daddy, punty. No, coke bottle. What's the whole thing? Dude, I'm driving. And that should be spraying like this. Like a fucking hose all over the place. If I didn't, I just picked my dick in there. Yeah. Yeah, all the way to do it. I cut the top of the fucking Polish print bottle. I got a little bit more green there. Yeah, I'm the only way to do it. Yeah, but you know what else I'll do? I know it's the sounds a little fucking crazy. But I would actually throw newspaper in the back seat. And I'll jump that. I'll jump out of the car running back and shit on the floor. Ah! I'm not gonna get the newspaper on the floor. Not on the floor. That's fucking nasty, Greg. Even if I throw it out right at the window. Oh, my God. It's a huge anniversary with me. That's fucking animal. What did you just get? You're not the fucking one, man. The fucking hell are you? You even want to hide where you're on right now. I'm talking about on the highway. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The fucking hell are you over the door. You should have the fucking door. I can't wait to get off the door. I get that fucking 10 second fucking shit bubble count. Oh, yeah. You get that shit bubble. You feel like, oh, I'm gonna fuck you in here. I got all. And I know what's that. Oh, no. I know what you mean. I thought that that I. I mean, no, let's let's cut to the Mr. G show. Yeah. Yeah. They were. Joe was that live. That was he just doing it now. It's doing it now. It's live. Everyone was alive. I mean, was it recorded? No. That's right. He's in New Jersey. He's still going on over there. That's the funny thing. Yeah. We gotta keep it. You see the whole time. I feel me just. I'm just going to get out of here. Oh, we're still going. You guys ready to sing a song. You know, Harry. I've got any song in that. I've got a fucking way you fucking. Coach, stuck up. You're just stuck on your mouth. Fuck off. You. You fucking. Come out. You idiot. You. Did you call him a Chinese fucking? I said, yeah, yeah. Because we're tiny. I'm sorry. I'm not being purchased. They just fucking can't drive these people. I was fucking turning into my lane with a smile on his face. But I'm stuck on. Don't stick on on me. I guess you're gonna fucking 90 ton truck. What the fuck do you need? I mean, he was just on with these people. You'd maybe it was your, isn't his death as Chinese? I think so. Maybe it was your dentist. A dentist. What the fuck is talking about? I thought you let a Chinese dentist. There's something like that that drove me crazy. That must be a bitch, remember? I thought he would have kissed. I told you that story. And she was just on stop and came. What a ditch. You didn't get me real cut out. She was stopped by. And the ditch was stopped. She was leaning over me. Give me real cut out. Tits were on my face. I couldn't even real. I couldn't even yell for help. There was fucking another in me. You know what? Give me some guys pay for that shit. I can't even get my fucking fucking life. I fucking fuck I can write. I can't even walk in. She saw that little white paper that could be a fucking shit. It was soap. The bitch was living the rude animal. I fucking cool. And she had no navigate in there. You know what the motherfucker told me? No. It's an ovary out there. I don't understand. I'm not a fucking idiot. You don't know the fucker. You don't know the fucker. You don't know the fucking fucking. It might hurt your fucking cock. That's why he's the only react of your scum bag. Get your tits out of my fucking face. No, you're fucking fucking fuck. Fucking unbelievable. You're gonna die. You're gonna die. You're gonna die. He's red. Look how red he is. Yeah. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. He's not my just fucking eye. Look at his fucking eye. He's red. He's red. Oh man. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. You're red. Fuck. Fuck. Stop. Stop. I'm gonna blow a fucking old ring. I'm telling you. I'm gonna go to this one. God. I got the fist. If I look, I walked out of the office. I have a roof. I now. The fucking the fucking hell. Paul the call me up a week later. Mr. Polet, you're this is Dr. Davis over. I guess you have what you want. I don't do the old twelve hours. I see the one. Stick the twelve hours. You're fucking ass. You're like that. Don't sue you for medical malpractice. You're a hacksucker. I hung up on him. I never heard from them again. You told him to stick in a kiss. Like the fucking like your stripper. Stick it in between our tits. I want to be those tits crack. I'm gonna. I'm gonna steal. You know what the hell is in between those tits. Oh, stick it together. 35 years. You know what the hell is in there. I don't like that shit anyway. I like skinny girls. You. Okay, you gotta give Jimmy a rest. I'm gonna blow a fucking oory. Look how red is he. You could color a role. I'm living right now. I'm all living. God, when I moved from New York to the Florida, my blood pressure dropped in my 10 points. Just on the move. Jimmy needs to get out of there. It's like a matter of what. I got the whole side of my house. The whole wing his own bathroom is own bedroom. His own bedroom is own and you're not. You're not. For a strike. I got him. I got him. I'm not gonna fuck the door. I'll be by the me a job. You know what I do. What you can be COVID positive. And I'm letting you in. I'm not going to call me. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. I'm not coming. You. You already had the COVID. I've even take you. I've even. He definitely had. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. I've got. You already got. I've got. You were and goggles. You and Greg right now. You got goggles on. I've got. I've got. Don't make design. What's the difference? You look at. I got. I'm not gonna day. I'm. Don't if bad hearing no, I got a win next a fucking swimming cap Swimming cap in goggles now and fuck the man fuck this up It's bad is bad here in New York man, I don't know let's cut the Mr. J. What's going on over there Mr. J. I don't want to hear a concert Can you can you make you me the brief version? Alright, you're just a cliff notes He knows región Very good Mysteries guys looking good I think the heroin is kicking in kick it in. I guarantee Mr. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. G. How am I going to throw him down? You're getting goosebumps. Look at him. You're getting raspubs. You're getting the fuck off the top of the cups. Oh, why choke? And you're getting a strawberry tree. Don't tease me. Don't tease me in here. Don't tease me in here. I'm so miswaped. Don't tease me. Hey, John. John, you see what Mr. G got set up over there? You see that set up he's got? That's going to be the Olympian booth right there. He's going to lie to see the Olympian booth from his house. This is the COVID-19. Yeah, I have a whole show script. And he just hit his head back. He just hit his own sauce. I had the Holy Setup. Oh, for three minutes. It went out of the window. He just said, I know. Running out of time. John, you said, I'm behind you. Who said, go to the guy behind you. What time is guy? We never did. I'm in the under to bridge. You better under. You better under. You play out the front. Stop. You win all the American dark stuff. I figured out how to come on the show. You're going to be a good show. He works for Stop and Shab. No, he plays a lot. He was so young. He plays all the people going to stop and Shab. He makes $400 a day in tips. Holy shit, I got to get him. You're talking about the supermarket? He's a bad man. He's a bad man. He's a bad man. You got the right. You're in the wrong business, Jenny. You ready? There he is. The only thing that's stuck with Shab. We won! Can we just see this day? We've been in the wrong place. You. I'm ready. You're actually a good student that you can say. It's all of my work. And the record of this one could talk. It's very old. I guess I'd be in jail with it. What? You. This is the same job. This is the same job. This is the same job. This is the same job. And that's how you got him. Get the doll, yeah. Dude, that's really bad. I'm just saying. I'm just saying. This is just great. Oh my god. This is such a good thing. I got it all here, man. Can I get over? Thank you. Thank you. You're on a two-shot. If it's a two-shot, that's enough. I think it's more exciting watching Jimmy, Drunken and Van Wick. Yeah, I would watch that too. All right, so this is where Mr. G got this guy. He goes to the stop and shop. This is the guy in the parking lot who's sitting there. On the side of the road, you'll play in the banjo. And helping people put this there, then grossers away. This is the tower talent pool we have here. He's the parking lot in 13. Yeah, it's good. When I was a kid, I used to play in the pool. I got him. Stop it, stop it. You don't know. Yeah, it's a supermarket. We would have done it. Someone would have gone to the Venice Boardwalk. We could have got some serious talent over there. All right, I got it. Now that's the true. Wait, I could do it. What I was younger, I used to put rubber bands across the fuckers to go up on. And it had more tune in that. Right, put them off. Right, you remember in bed. I got to put the drum circle to remember that. The what's on it going? The drum, the drums, the drummer, the drums. Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah, you know, it's the puppy of that shit. It's you. It's like 500 people down. They're all beaten on it. It's in credit sounds like thundering. But that was like a freak show where everybody was trying to get somebody to fucking. Get somebody to fucking get scottle or get discovered. Yep. But you could then you could you could be anybody enjoying it. We're bond those of hunger drum, whatever you can. And then and it's right. It's like here in New York City. I see them play the fucking. I see a play the bucket with the buckets. They've been looking and you have a dude's amazing. Some of that sound. Yeah, yeah, they're good. Venice Beach has great talent. But no, yeah, yeah, yeah, it always did. But that people don't have to discover doing that shit. Yeah, you can't stop and shop parking lot. You're not going to do it very well as you can see. Well, he does pretty well in tips according to Mr. J. Well, you know, Mr. J has a way of exaggerating certain things a little bit. No. I mean, I want to know where to where does this guy live, Mr. J, does he sleep in the parking lot? Over there. I think he's living in Mr. J's. I think he's making cookies and Mr. J now. So you hired him. I think that's what's going to happen. Now, Mr. J's going to come out with a Patreon cookie. Right. But he put that guy on the car and the boy. Yeah, guy. Hey, the guy. Because the guy has a hit for me and no house shot. That should be Mr. Pots is who it's. David's done is no longer. Because the guy has a hit for me and no house, that guy. I don't know what to bullshit you. Hey, Dave's going to no longer be on the tin. Now it's going to be that guy. Yeah. He's a piece of Mr. Pots. It's that a jumbo cookies. It's good to be. Yeah. Yeah. Take a bite. It's a banjo player. You're right. Unbelievable. You're right. Unbelievable. But anyway. Well, what did I want to talk about? What did you want to talk about? I want to talk. It was like. What did I want to talk about? Jimmy, your connection is terrible. Reconnect with us. Keep not come off. A lot of them are freaking out because he sees. We're doing a show. You're breaking up, Jimmy. We have to get rid of the people that don't sound good. Can you just take him from the conference so they can go click back in? All right. I'll reconnect. Why not? They get the link. Oh, because you're like your barym. Oh, yeah. Reconnect. Jimmy, can you reconnect and connect again because your connection is terrible? I don't know. I wanted to talk about it. I might. Dorna's first birthday party was this past weekend. And that was just one year's old year. She we got her water slide. I was going down the water slide. And then I was thinking, you know, back. Do you have you seen that there's a movie out called class? What is it called? It's called class action park. You remember that the place action park we used to go to? Of course. Yeah. And six flags over in Jersey there. The great adventure. I've been in many times. You know, men. I was always afraid to go on a lot of the crazy rides because I was afraid I was going to fall off or kill myself. And everything was like, ah, you're being crazy. Well, evidently, like action park had so many deaths and lawsuits and people getting hurt there that they made a whole movie about this thing. You know, people don't realize these parks are dangerous. You got to be. You know, you could fall off these rides very easily, you know. I was Disney World. One time when my daughters were little and we were on the Mono Rail and there's a point where the Mono Rail was like, where the tracks were two. One going one way and one going the other way really close together. Right. And the guy said last month some kids stuck his head out the window and looking the other way when the other train was coming. You got no way. You're going to be more like, have like glass on those windows or something. You know, you had him had him made it so that they can't open, but somehow that kid got it open. Whatever. Usually I see Puka Rama with their fucking thing where you go in that bucket and spins around like this. And everybody's like, you know, like, your fucking like stuck to the side of the bucket. You know, everybody gets off Guy Bars and hits a guy next to him and shit. Did you ever see that? Yeah, girlfriend goes on right. I don't know how she does it. She goes on a ride. As soon as she gets off your fucking home room, it's just like, why do you bother going on those rides? Well, why would you bother going on a ride that's going to make you fucking, you. It's just fucking nuts. About Fabio, go almost lost the fucking eye. Would have seen go ahead and Mono way and down in a roller coaster. Would he really? Bobby. Bobby, I'll remember Fabio? Yeah, wait. He got hit in Facebook at a single. I'm like a goose sort of fucking duck or some shit like that. Hit him in the eye on the on the on a roller coaster on a way that is all. Oh, remember that was like why was the little bloody in shit? Oh my god. I heard it wasn't a roll of cuts to John. It was actually the van wick expressway. He stuck his head out the window. But that would be impossible because no one no one moves on the van wicks. So you really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. I really couldn't get it. You're not a fucker. Get it. Tyler look you can Tyler look that up. Fabio gets hit with his bird and then you know. Yeah, I mean, you get that up on the TV here. You got it. Because that's Fabio you really got it with the romance novel guy with the big chest with fake pecks. Dude, that's like we're dead. That's like we're dead. That's like dead. Am I not dead? Yeah, you sound better now. You sound better now, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, sound better. Mr. G is desperately trying to say something. Oh, he found it. Okay. Hold on. Put it up on the screen. He's a little diet rooped it right here. There you go. From great value from Sam's clothes. Is that a rigger? Is that your urine that you you you you you you you you you you a your body. I don't do your job. I don't do your job. Yeah. You're not a quick tricks is on your it the piss isn't it. That's probably a whole lot of everybody running through one more time. All that he's running. He's running. He's showing the Fabio. He's on Fabio thing. Hold on. Oh, you found it. Wait wait. We found Fabio. I don't know if you guys can see it. Okay. They can't see it, but he's running it. I'm right. He's actually on the ride going up the roller coaster. Watching. I'll give you the play by play. You think to actually show it? Yeah. Hold on. Let me see. He's going up up up up up. It must happen. Now they're going down. That's going to wake down. He's got blood all over his face. Like his whole face is all blighted up. His hair is perfect though. He didn't know if he cares about the four fuckers. He's going to burn me. That for him that that much. We're out. Come back to me. We lost these guys. All right. I guess we're going to have to end the show. This is a pretty good show actually. Thanks a lot, dude. Yeah. I guess we have to buy the pro version of those. We're very, very frugal over here in our muscle. It was an experiment on a ride, yes. But, you know, look, the bottom. I wanted to talk about, I wanted to talk about rides, but I guess we're not going to have a chance to. Anyway, we want to send our condolences out to Rick and Jason's family. Of course, I know he did a couple videos on it already, but this was a guy who made a huge impact on our industry. You know, he was he drew the logos for the two most famous gyms in all body building, Golgjim, world gym. He also was in the incredible whole TV show. He was a wrestler. He was an artist. He played instruments. He had a very successful YouTube channel. He edited his own videos. It well into his, you know, 70's. He was 76 years old. So here's a guy who did it all and he lived a great life. And he made a lot of positive impressions on a lot of people. And I don't know if anyone who's ever said a bad word about Rick. So Rick, you'll be missed. We send our prayers out to your family. I'm Dave Palombo for John Romado. Greg Valentino. Jimmy the bull, Palatia. Tyler Shaw, producer. And Mr. G. and I don't know who he had over there. Uncle Sam. Till next week, hanging there and have fun.

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, stows for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery within fear or sleep. Or do your spinaline mattress today. As we sit here at the last supper, we must thank the Lord and take pause. Jesus, what's the matter? Welcome to another episode of After Hours. I'm Dave Alumbo and I'm back again with John Romano here on this beautiful August 11th, 2020 afternoon here. It's supposed to be nighttime, but you've got to, you've got to record when you can record. You still have to hours. We just have the fun which hours these are. So I have a, I've got to have an Valentino on today. So both the evidence coming up, but I have my Valentino sunglasses on. What do you want to do? I went to the eye doctor. So, you know, I got to tell you, you know, and you probably have the field is more than I did, but it's just 60. I'm only 52. The older I get, the more I become like my father as we all know, that happens. That's inevitable. Now I'm getting all the elements that my father had. Like, um, now I have like a cataract in my left eye. Now my left eye is my bed. I was in first grade. I got hit with a rock. Some kids would throw rocks at the monkey bars, one ricochet off hit me the eye. So I haven't really had good vision in that eye for my whole life. So, and everyone on this show now, teen, everyone has a bed. So, um, I mean, I'm here and I, you're like, open my eyes for bed. Yeah. So, I mean, I have obviously my contact lenses. Now I have, I've, I've now that I've hit 50. I can't read. I can't, so I've my contact lenses. I can see distance now, but I can't see close. I know you can't either you're always popping the glasses on. And used to, when I, you know, when you were 50, you were just holding everything at a distance or even, right? So now I got a can of raccoly. They said, it's not, it's, it's a three out of four. So, they wait till it's a four out of four to do surgery on it. That'll be probably next year. I'll get a can of raccoly. Like, like, I don't have a lot of callboy, like, my phone. I don't have any pressure problems. I don't know how any of these people that I hear have got cataract, like, colomal, any of them, or just the, the LASICs. Any of these procedures where they block your head in this, in this advice. And then, and then they, this machine comes down like into your eyeball. You know, I, there, you have to put me out for that. You know, it's called a kid's John. If you had one kid, I could have a kid. I could fall asleep anywhere. I fell asleep getting a tattoo. That's how tired I am, you know? I'm supposed to get a tattoo. I don't know how anybody can do that. But to get that in your eye, I mean, I think, well, they numb your eyes. So you don't even feel in the mess. Oh, come in. It comes into your eye. Or it's not. I'll see. Let me tell you something. You know, I've been wearing contact lenses for 35, for 30 years or something like that. And you could take your finger and poke might me right through to my brain stem. And I wouldn't even close my eye or blank because you become so desensitized your eye when you wear contact lenses that literally I can grab my eyeball. It wouldn't hurt. So I think I'm not going to have as big a trust for me. It's the idea of what they're doing in my mind. It's just fucking me out there. Right. You know, especially you with the medical doctor. Yeah. So you know what exactly, you know, root compartmental. And you know, be peace by peace. Right. And then you got this robot arm in your eye. Like crazy, right? I'm going to like come on. You move one millimeter to wrong. That's I know. I want to be a mobile. I don't want to be able to move. I don't. I'll be like, look, whatever you got to do, I don't want to be able to move. I don't care what you do to me. Just anchor me that. Look, my dad got through to cataracts. You know, my father, this is how the stubborn he is. He got one done. And we'll only did was complain after that. And you probably heard him because I think you were up there. And then maybe it was complained that he could he looked like he was seeing through a barbed wire fence. He was going, I said, Dad, that's because you haven't had the other eye done. You guys, what are you talking? I'm not going to get it done. And then I'll see, he thought it was going to be like, Double is bad. I said, you're seeing good at it one eye. And then the other one is fuzzy. So I think it's creating this this artificial, you know, artifact. No, you know, you're talking about. So you wait two year and a half, two years. Finally, he goes to the eye doctor. The guy is like, Sal, you cataracts it. You got to get this done the other eye. Right. He's like fine. Because he, what he did was he got the bad eye done first. He wasn't seeing that eye that eye. And he's another one bad eye. I can get another wonderful thing. I don't, I don't even have to inherit it genetically from them. I got hit me. I, to equilibrate my bad eye to his eye, you know. He had double hip replacement. I had double shoulders. You know, both had appendix and 17. You know, it's a total of two. I don't know how tall are same by so you're doing. Yes, genetically, would vulnerable to our genetics. What can I say? So. Yes, I've never had my eyes dilated so much. If I took these sunglasses off, I looked like I just went, I took 14 X to see pills. That's how my eye goes like. Because you know, I get the blue eyes, you know, especially in the Sunlight. Yeah, black. I look like a devil himself, you know. I went into the bank. They were like, they were like, looking at me like, because they seem all the time. They're like, the fuck's wrong with this guy, you know. You know, we take our eyesight so for granted, that's what Rick told that that is. The other day I was out on my motorcycle. I'm riding and I got, you know, face full face helmet. And right out of brick and nowhere, I'm in a turn. I'm committed. I'm like, I'm like, lean and over, you know, In the smaller area, you know, I came back with a and made a mess. All each have a helmet on, that was smart. And that's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking, holy shit. So many guys, right, but just like sunglasses like that, you know, we're no helmet or whatever. And you know, because they want to feel free and whatever, your whole thing went to bike. But that fucking bug, man. If I was not wearing it, if I had just said sunglasses on, it would have gone right through the freaking lens, I'd be, well, you right now. You know, they had that surges bike week. I think it was past this past week. Yep, all my brothers out there, with their, without their helmet. No, no face mask. They're like, no, I guess no helmet. Fuck it. They're peacefully protesting. What's wrong? I mean, the funny thing is surges, it has been like, we're getting a lot. I, they would say, how they, they brought in all this extra medical, something or others, you know. And they brought like, there's only like 5,000 people in the whole town. Yeah, when start, we have it. When the bikers get there, it's 250. Oh, I know. I don't even have any comp. That, I would imagine surges is probably the whole economy there. Oh, it's like, I, it's, and I went a couple of times when I looked at it. Oh, man, road it. Yeah, we actually, one of the times we actually rode all the way out there. That was a trip to remember. Right. Yeah, the next time I went on a trail or that was way better. But man, you want to be, it was more impactful when we rode there because it was a pathway to buy, buy eight of us went, you know, and I'm from LA, we started out at about 12, but only eight made it. Absolutely. How many hours is that? Fuck a lot. And I was three days we took together. There. Did you can't, you can't ride a bike, like you drive a car, man. It's, it's fucking take. It's like riding a motorcycle into wind like that. We're not like a crew, but not like a, like a, a goal wing, but like a, you know, a real motorcycle. Yeah. It's like being hung upside on a beaten with a bat for, you know, every hour that you're riding is uncomfortable. And go to sleep, you know. I don't have people doing for that length of time. I have people being across country. I don't know. I'm done it. I wrote some, I went from LA to, to, to, to Daytona one time. Really, really. How long did that take? That, oh, God. That was a memorable experience. It was like 19, it was in 80s. So I had, I had a really cold bike back then. And it was, I think we did it in six, six days. We took a, that's a brutal John. Well, what was more brutal is I was arguing with my girlfriend the whole time. So she was, and every time I step for gas, you know, make a phone back then, we used to, you know, tell me what. And, and actual booths, phone, phone, look at your eyes, don't know what the fuck that is. But it was actually a phone that's hanging outside that you put money in it. Did they even know what money is? I don't know. I don't, I don't think you're hot, you know, the bank even said where we have a change shortage. Yeah. Well, these things call quarters, you know? And you know, I'm gonna have a change. Shortage the bank, John, because then I fucking minting anymore. Oh, great. I found out who the hell uses change. Penis, what the fuck is this up any? Well, you know what, once the penny's gone, the nickel will be gone next. And then the dime and the quarter. And then before you know it, the dollar bills will be gone too. The change, I think I didn't get everybody should round up around down in the nearest dollar. Fuck, it's like, excuse me. I'm not, I'm not just a not that. You look, you know what the fuck, you know what I hate. You're panning. You're gonna give up your money. I'm telling you. Here's what happens. Five bucks. The thing is, four, 23. So I'm gonna get, I'm gonna get that pile of change. Those are my pocket. What do I do with that pile of change? It wasn't, it wasn't 420, it was five bucks. Because I'm never gonna see the change. It's gonna come on when I dump it in the ash tray or I'm gonna put it in the jar or whatever. And then, what happens? Some day you're gonna cash that in. It's like, it's such a pain in the ash change. It's, you know what? I can we can go cashless as far as I'm concerned because I use plastic everywhere I go. I never pay. If I remember back in the day when you were doing illegal stuff, you know, for those guys, they're not gonna be happy. I probably got created Bitcoin. You know what? I don't know. They got a roll with the times. You can't always use cash. All right. So whatever, man, I'm fine with them getting rid of cash. But get rid of the change. What it's so, it rounds everything up anyway. You will never spend that, you know, 72 cents. This is never gonna happen. No, you never know. My mother and mobile travel, the 20 miles to save, a penny a gallon of the gas station said, well, that goes with that whole generation. Yeah. Yeah. Part of the generation. Yeah. My uncle, he would drive, he would drive 30 miles out of the way we've played eight months, but we're just saying on, on, on premium, you know, because you got it with that. Yeah. So, I know you like this story. Let me pull this story up to you. Did you see the guy who's suing New York State, Madda Cuomo? Yeah. I'm honored. Yes. All right, I'll pull this. I, the problem is I can't see any John had to do all my texting for me to take because my eyes just will not. We do want a pretty good job. That's good. Yeah. Well, I had, I set it up ahead of the time. The funny thing is that they put so much dilator in my eyes. It's, it's, it's both the last and hour, John. It's like been three hours already. He's still can't see. All right. This is the Jim Mona Charles, a different Chesco. He owns a Jim that he is now. It seemed like every state has one of these guys that's going after the state, the governor's here. He's going to give us guys going after the governor and Jerry and Jersey. You got to Francesco who's got part of a coalition that's suing Cuomo. Good. It's not just him. So, what we do now. We meant the other, I didn't know you meant this lawsuit. I thought you meant the other lawsuit that they're filing against him for the nursing home. Now, patience. He's getting sued by them, too. What are they, sir? Cuomo is the one who ordered that they put the COVID patients in the nursing home. Oh, wow. I found people fucking more on. So now, yes, so now he's being sued for that. Well, this guy has got a point. He's like, look, the Jim's are places for people to get healthy. And guess what? You've got liquor stores. Look, this liquor store is open. They considered that an essential business. But the Jim's are not open. Well, I can be going to a liquor store and buy fucking wine and beer and hard liquor when you can't go work out. And you can buy weed. How come you can get an abortion? But you can't get a colonizer. But you're going to be more a Walmart, but you can't go to church. That's the problem with this whole freaking thing. There's so much incongruency to how they're handling it. Even the freaking masks leave the whole of the science that shows the masks that work. That not what's standing. The fact that if you look at 10 people wearing masks, 10 random people wearing masks, aid of them having a down here with their nose hanging out, no one's hanging off for a year. No, no, we've got it backwards. And they're not even using them right. So what is even wearing them? They're all touching them. They pull it out of their pocket. You know what I'm just going to do? What are they taking out? If you're going to use that man, and spite of the fact that on the box, it says it doesn't work. But if you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you serve that fact and try to insert your whack logic on a side note. I got to show you this high speed video of a sneeze when a mask on, they slow it down. It's like a fucking crack of toe explosion. How many of these two are thing? It's like, are you going to tell me that that freaking mask is the easiest? What we're doing is mist directing. It's both freaking coming out all over the place. But it's not the point. They're not wearing, they don't even use them right. So so what is the point of forcing people to use my, my favorite, my favorite here is you go to the restaurant. You got to wear the mask, I don't, but they, they suggest it's on the sign. We're going to the restaurant and you got to walk to the table and you get to the table and you can take your mask off. And when you're going to go to the bathroom and put your mask on, walk to the bathroom. Yeah. It is kind of crazy. You're going to go to a place to eat. You're not on a single square of mask while you're eating, so. It's like, it's like mask on mask off, mask on mask off. I mean, it's like the plane and it's the seat and the fucking plane. We're kind of seeing, you're going to die. See you up here, you're going to live. No, no, no, no. Live. I'm not going to live. Masked die. No mask die, lastly. I mean, it's that fucking stupid at this point. I agree with it. It's kind of ludicrous and it's the, you know what the masks remind me of. Remember when we were back, I guess it was in the 80s. Remember the first person came out with this baby on board science on the farm. Yeah. You put it back. You win the, it was like suction cup to the window and you'd see, and then people started making new ones. They started adding like funny stuff like Yoda on board or, you know, jerk off on board, devil on board. Everyone had a different one and said something different. That's like the mask. Now we have all these like masks. They're like the Joker mask. Yeah. A clear one now. I can see the people you get. You drink through it. There's like, it's like a whole business now, you know. My friend, I wish I, I'm not filming in my studio because I, I actually quarantine Tyler because he wanted to trip less. But I have a high and senior sent me the RX muscle mask. I have to have them send you a couple. Oh, really cool. They're really cool. I don't, I wish I burned with me. I'm in the wrong place. So I should. But yeah, he did a really good job of these RX muscle masks and they're really kind of cool. You might even wear a judge's because it's cool. But I might hang it from my rear view mirror like the other guys really, you know, because it's cool. But I refuse to wear them. And nobody says anything to me. I walk into stores right where I want wear it. Nobody says it weren't to me. Amanda got me this thing. I really like it because you know, I have like, I have like a big head someone. The normal masks that they sell don't, they too tight so they, it went to slipping off my ears. Hind seniors have adjustable straps in the West side. I'm not sure if you're a regular one, but I'm an animal up mid to saying it kind of goes over your head. And then it, it's like, go it wraps around completely. And you kind of just lift it up. I look like I'm in the part of the camel crew. I want to get, I want to get these hoses putting, you know, when you have like a nitrous oxide system on a car and like before you get before you get a purge, you know, and then it comes out like the winsio wiper, washers, you know, it's spread. I want to get that and that coming out my nose. So that I can push the button and it goes. Come down to my, you know, all nostril. And then I wear a mask if it doesn't cool. I'm sure you just, you probably gave away a million dollar idea right there to actually, I think your boy Logan would love that show. Yeah, me was like a bull, you know, with your most coming out of the nose. Yeah, tell him my invented. We put a mask on him this, we took them to, for the first time to target. He was going stir crazy. And he wore the mask the whole time. He was really good actually. I can't even believe him. Because that's because he was, if you would have seen him in target ripping toys off the shelf into the cart, I couldn't put him back fast enough. He had everything, all the things this and this. I need to start with this. This is a re-provation from being locked down like God. He thinks he thinks I can get anything you want. He's like, no, no, no, I need this and I need that. And I need this, I need this ammo. That's his new word ammo now. Oh, yeah. So he's got a mask because he carrying a gun, too. Yeah, we don't want him to have a gun mask, but he's, he's obsessed with these like YouTube videos with the Nerf Blast, everything's Nerf Blast is there. Oh, cool. So he's a kind of an ammo. I mean, I mean, I just, I don't know, we don't have to giant water bazookas for the pool. Yeah, yeah, that is allowed to have. But no, he just loses them because he winds him scoring us in the IRC. Do you believe me? He's smart for the IRC. That's why we don't want to let him have the Nerf Blast. So he likes to assassinate you at point point. But he's like, no. He puts it right to you fucking head. And he's like, I don't love that kid. No, no, no. He needs ammo now. But I was thinking about when Max was a kid and he was like, he needed body armor and the halo when he was playing a halo. Oh, really? He had that certain mask. Yeah. I know my son's going to be the same way. I'm really, I'm really, I'm really, I'm really, he's going to need the hologram. You know, can you imagine how advanced that's going to be? Oh, my God. When Logan was, I was, you know, gaming age. Oh, you should. Five years alone in the video games will probably be insane. Awesome. Yeah. Come on. I think I think I still think the robot thing is, is the cool, is the cool. Oh, yeah. Exactly. I'm hoping that by the time John were like, Sabine that like we can have robot-like serving us. Like I'd like to have a whole staff of them. You know, I want to see, you know, you're going to think I'm crazy. But I want the sex robots. I want to see them perfect them. Because I'm going to sit back and watch the women freaking implode. Melt down because, you know, what can happen? Guys, guys, what are you going to put up with this shit for? I'm going to have a cherry 2000 over here, man. And then I'm going to listen to shit. I'm going to keep it in a closet and a bedroom. Hey, babe, come on out. You know, anyway, I want to, and then go back in the closet. And then I have a sitting out of a beer, watch the game, like you can go to a rancings. You know, what's going to bother me? You know, and then, but, and this whole concept of the relationship and the, all of this, give and take, I just going to go right out. It's already happening, but you can't even fucking hang out with anyone. Because you have to wear a mask and you're quarantined. You're going to matter even if you're not really cheating. Yeah. But this isn't going to happen to left of the election anyway. So the masks are going to be gone no number fourth. But as this, as this robot technology, because you know, the proverb for gay design to go out for a thought, to get, we get one of these sexual thoughts, you know, perfect. And I, you know, there's teams, a lot goes out there, working on that. And they're going to come through to, you know, Russian, Japanese, whatever. It's going to happen. And we're going to do it. It does. The second they have a viable humanoid crazy maniac, nymphosextol, or perfect. There is going to be a crash crash in our society, like you have never seen before suddenly a giant number of men are going to perceive the fact that real women are superfluous. Right? Right? They're going to put up an air shit for. I get what I want. I'll tell you right there, John, right? Like that. If you population control issues, you're talking. You're not, they don't want kids. They just want an important star, you know, live porn star in the house. What I want people to have to worry about population, they're little bit. And of course, they're not going to get shit done. The productivity is going to go down to Poelik, because they're going to have Menaja Twas, we're talking, you know, bar to fish and porn stars, 40 hours a week. And so no one's going to get a goddamn thing done. And then you're going to, this is going to be an up, it's going to be the most insane. The guy that cures baldness won't even get on the map. Yeah, right. But the problem is they feel the, the, the, the have us chemically castrated by them probably, or oh, there's going to be, you know, there's going to be, this, this will ruin humanity. And it's going to happen. And I, I just, I hope it happens in my lifetime, because I want to watch it. Yeah. I just want servants. That's all. I want some servants that I, like, I don't feel bad telling them what to do. You know what I mean? Because I don't really want humans. I would, I love robot servants that just, I could just, you know, I can make like funny. Like I could have like one guy look like, like, Arnold or Lou Frigno, I could make another one like Ronnie Coleman. Which you love having Ronnie Coleman like, and his Olympia for shape like just like, you know, being the botler. That's the torso. Right. Right. What about the staff of fucking the black movement have? It's also all right. You would, you know, he would just have like, you know, people have busts of like, people. Black movement would have like the glutes, you know, you know, he'd have, you know, a kind actor, all like you'd be getting like like an and Nicole Smith, like, you know, he'd be having like high victor, you know. But it would only be like the waste would be the most of the work you have robots. He said you sex robots. So you can get the map. You know, he's only interested in the glutes. So he would have the Roman around on wheels, you know, and just like, the need to the waste. Thank you. That part with the striations, you know, and then we just send them to catch the couch jerking off. We're like, you know, moving all around, you know, it's like like a maze. That would be like a hundred. We're like a hundred and ten. We'll have like a whole. Every new like USA winner and, you know, yeah, we're gonna get like this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, get me a hunt alabrata. He'll be telling like his grandkids. You want to get me a present? Get me a hunt alabrata. Just the glutes. That we need to the whole robot experience. Oh, my god. So he had Steve, you're a hundred and ten when you can't drive. Oh, no, no, no, no. We'll be driving. This would be the best invention for me anyway. I want a box. You can roll the motorcycle into, shut the door, and then ten minutes later pull it out. It is freaking perfectly clean. Yeah, I was. I told you that for any, it's a little, that thing takes forever to freaking clean. Men is got so many little, you know, areas, first, frustrating. I had to get another shit over here. And when you're going to hunt your miles an hour and you get bugs getting trapped everywhere. I have not gone 100 yet. Not really. I'm 18. 86 was that. Does it feel like you're going faster or slower when you're on that bike? The acceleration, once you get up to speed, it's, you know, one thing after one, you don't even notice it. But the, the acceleration, if you're hard on the acceleration up there, it's the most violent experience I've ever haven't done a wheel here. I mean, like that. Yeah, well, it's kind of inevitable. I was really, wow. Well, I mean, you got to really like lay on it to keep the, to keep the, you know, it's hard. On full blast acceleration, it's really hard to keep the run in down. Right. Yeah. This is when you get the revs up. But when it, when it's, it's exhilarating. I, you know what? The 20 year absence, I know that puts me in a category of most likely to die in a motorcycle accident. But I got to tell you, man, I'm so glad I got back on. It's, yeah, I just, it's just the most best feeling in the entire world. I'm so glad. Yeah. You got to do it. You got to do it. You got to enjoy your life. You know, you're at a good stage now and, yeah, you know, kids are all growing up. And you can do it. You want that. Exactly it. I waited to the kids grew up and now I'm now back. All right. Well, you know what, Chris, John, let's make a quick commercial break. And then when we come back, we'll bring in the Wackback. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsensablements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in this Species Nutrition Lighter Products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back, guys. We're here with After Hour, and we got the Wackback. Happy birthday, Greg Melanchino. Yeah, happy birthday, Greg. Happy birthday, Greg. Thank you, guys. I appreciate it, man. Thanks, though. You're going to be 60. Wow. It was last Wednesday, August 5th. Well, you guys, 16 out including Mr. Cheese. No, not you, John. Oh, next year. I'm at no, I'm next October. John's in October. I remember that, yeah. Yeah. I got what, 90 days. It's crazy that your guys are all born the same year. Isn't that weird? Right, you know. I think that's the. Yeah, wow. I'm 59. No, you're not. Yeah, I think, that's the first time. No, don't be a dog. I get it. We work. 1959. Yeah, that was your first, 1961, really, that. I'll be 61, November. Oh, all right. But you're 60 right now. Yeah. He made, he meant. He meant he's not 59. He meant he was born in 1959. I was born in 1959. I was born in 1959. It changes. It's not the wilder when you're born in the 50s, then the 60s. Like I'm in the, I'm the 68. You guys are 60. 60s sounds like not as old as, as, as, you 59, right? Well, you can just see by all of this, how age is related to climate, climate, to decline, to build, and we're not going to profit from what you think. Because none of us remember what the fuck we're talking about. I'm so happy you guys losing your memory, too, because it was really concerning me that I was, that I was maybe going see an aisle, like had dementia, but I think it's just all age. I really think that's exactly what it is. We need new tropics. We need new tropics. I think the problem is, people from the tropics is not working. You're working on, I invented, I invented a vape, a vape, and that you have new tropics in, really. Right? Right? So inhale, and then you get new tropics, high, right? Right? So right after I'm getting into the, I got a guy ready to invest in this thing, and then the whole thing happened with the kids in the vape, and they got to ban vape, and then the guy said that. We have an advertiser that has a pre-workout vape, who work out vape. I have, I think that once I landed out of the bag, it was only amount of matters. Yeah, I'm not going to put it in a way you will. Dude, I do the vape, I did the vape. I do it. I've never gotten this to you. The stoke, game face, game faces on the level. Yeah. Look at this fucking guy. Mr. J. A. Hey, what's up there? So here's the big thing. Every week I get told you can't do it. It's not way, it's not. Don't do it now. No. No. You see that guy, you saw that guy, my car. I saw that guy. You really, you know what? Can you please? My car is on show. Your friends. I didn't know that. He's not cooking the one. He's a one. Yeah, cooking the one. He's like, can you clean your camera, Mr. J. That's fine. The camera's fuzzy. I think it's because you're in dirty. That's all. Yeah, two hours on it. Hey, Jim, I have to put this wrong. Oh, thank you, Jimmy. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, no. The man in my history. He got cooking. He got cooking. I got the fucking chips. I mean, I got things, big, can. Don't make fun of that. Wow, oh, he's not that scary. I got it all up there. I only did the chips. Mr. Man, so big. Yeah. I'm ready. Yeah, look, right here. See those. Wow. Wow. Let's see no. J, hey, Dave, that's the new warrior. You're getting the Oreo, John. And you're going to get the, get the, believe bar, which is, which is, as those peanut butter cups, protein peanut butter cups. Not come Jimmy. To three hours late to the party, he gets his ore. I'm a little excited. John's a fan of the horrors. We already got that. A man named. He's my judge. I'm a man named one of your cookies. I'm gonna tell you. Who did it? Who did it? Amanda. You got to take it when met for you. How did you get it? I should have taken it in so much. You didn't have to bring a met for me. I'm gonna tell you. I just gave Mr. Dick a great marketing opinion. You just take a little bit of a pack of plastic packs. Would have met for me and pill in there. You stick with further things. I got the. I went a lot. I went a light note the cream. I'm gonna make the cream. I'm gonna tell you. The same thing. This isn't an Oreo. Yeah, I told him. Perfect. So I'll make it a lot less. I'm gonna show you everything is in a so-fi. But you know what the delicious. And I'll tell you one thing. I love the the macadamia not ones are probably my favorite. But I, you know, because I like the white chocolate chips and I like the macadamia. That's an absolutely phenomenal. Yeah, you were in Logan sunglasses. Yeah, yeah, I am. Because I have my eyes dilated. I was at the eye doctor. Hey, look at this. Hey, I want to show you guys one thing. So when you when you. When you cut when you cook. When you cook. You know, the big kitchen. A lot of you you store the fire itself and these big giant bins. You know, so I had it. So the species. I have 50 pounds of species. That I have in this big. Let's take a. Yeah. The drop in. That's 50. 50. 50. 50. Nice. I'm. Unfortunately. I didn't sell it. I don't know where you got it. What's that? Not that I'm just kidding. Hey, I just want to give me a bowl. You need to pull sent me some video from. Where is Jimmy? What are there? Is that a fake? Jimmy, how much were you lifting in that video? Do you remember? Yeah, that was one of my fans sent me that video. I was a. I was about 7.65 or something shit. Wow. I remember spot you reverse benching like 600 or whatever the fuck that was. That was crazy. I was praying to God you didn't fucking did you did not fucking like sell. Because I was not able. I couldn't lift that off yet. I did. I didn't have. I didn't have points with Jimmy. I was I was announced on stage. He's gotten two. Twenty five on the crowbar. You know, going. You're crawling up like a food's head like. You're going. Then he kicks up the 130. I don't know about it. It's like doing shit. You know, I did it. Same shit. I was man in the woman's extravaganza. And he was reverse benching. He had it. Bro, he had a lot of weight on there a lot. I. I pissed the war off because he had four. He was supposed to have four plates. And I said, I mean, he's and he said, it's 405. And I'm like, no, I'm like, no, I'm not truly only 395. And he got the odd stage of front everybody all piss over. I put it on 25. I'm like, I hit the. I hit the. I'm not heavy enough in front of you. Just this video guys. Just the video of 765. Yes. No, that's when he did a thousand. I deserve. Most of them 65 right there. What. I did a double day. It was eight. Five. There's eight 55. This is insane. Watch this. He can't even cheap because the weight so heavy. It just goes right down to his chest. I didn't get him right there. I was right there when that was there. He was doing that. The. The thousand 15 is what's fucking nuts. Yeah. That was. I know you didn't refuse to spot him on that, right? No, no, no, you got it. You got to play that one. The. The. The only. He went out like this. He only did was take the bend out of the bar. No. Everybody said. Everybody said. And if fucking bars going to snap. I mean, 10 God. Stay right there. He goes. He goes. That that bar is going to snap any fucking Jimmy just goes like this in the book. The bend just goes like that. I did a bar. I played. I. I was. I was. I was. I was. I've all done as well. Okay. So. So it's. He did something right. No,當然 they've. Americans, they even said. I looked. You knew you were. Well, you didn't give. Oh, but. After. I'm like, hey, hey, hey, yeah, like I do to my truck. Yeah, this like the one up there and you're seeing it. You know what I mean? I'm like, hey, I'm gonna ask you to tell a quick story. I don't really have like a long time. I just, my brother called me up, he had a bad day. You know, he left me this message that he's struggling with the kid, the college, the pills, the father, the cars, fucked up, his boss, he called up his boss. They're very scrutinized, you know. Every day, I found a very duller and nickel. My brother goes, how many hours have I got over time this week? She says, I got the 22.3.7. You know, they're driving crazy, right? Yeah. So he's, he's all these messages. So I found a full of backers, you know, I didn't answer my way. And I said, get ready. You want to hear what kind of fucking day I had? I'll tell you what day. I said yesterday I worked. I thought, I'm gonna buy a real firecrack in the morning, my team because I had to get the extra for this six fucking time to say, guy, okay, then I fucking wouldn't work. I came back late because I worked late last night and I fucking got it locked, I'm coming to fuck off. I couldn't get the car out of the fucking thing. So I was walking by my car worker. He said, what are you going to do? I said, what do you mean? I'm going to cross you and jump your home. So he jumped, he's fucking off home. Okay? I said, fuck it. I'll take my holiday. I'm super long going to get my lunch and do what I got to do. I did. I jumped, I go, my bike, I go, holy shit. The fucking hall, the key is with the james. I don't want to fuck the money, I'm gonna take my money. So I can't go, I'm super big. I bought a hot dog last night. I saw it, I got a fucking dead. I couldn't make it to the fucking supermarket. Right? So now I get up, I'm fucking going, don't want to be on a pick-up in the morning. Four o'clock, it's just pocket, don't be late man. I got to be on the body. I'm gonna get a fuck off. I get up at two thirty. I shit, I shower, I get on my shit ready. I'm waiting to fuck, I'm fucking on the floor five. Four o'clock, I got a cold spot, fuck. I call him up, I'm going to get a no-ass. Where am I going to do now? I got to get the fucking yard. I should fuck it, I got a basic last night. Let me take that one off the fact, jump outside, I've read the place, I go, I stop my fucking bed. You get a fucking wreck, I got a flood tire in the front. I should do this, Christ, I take the fucking bike and I'll hold on to your gave you. Fuck, before they will whump, sweat my bottle. You get to the fucking yard, I'm gonna get to the yard, I'm gonna stay on. Sparky, coffee, go, I'll take my riot. I should win me, where am I? I'm almost at the yard, with the fucking talking back. He goes on at your house, I got my house, I saw a lot of them, it's the fucking yard. He goes on the right there, he's right there, he's right there for one. He goes up and now he's right behind me with the flashes on, right? I still want to get this, go to the police, I have a heart attack. I saw that, I'm just, how do you look? This is gulped from the birds in the vise. I said look at me, I'm fucking, I said look at me. I said look at me, my life's gone back with I'm on a fucking place, it will go on a work with my fucking whole bag. And the fuck is wrong with this picture, right? So I get, I need to talk, he walks the truck, I get out, I'm off my bike, he goes, ah, Jim, could you do me a favor, I just washed my bag, I got to go, it's late, it's the 10th fuck. Right now, he goes, I need an error, my tie. I need an error, the fucking yard, I got to borrow your house, I said, take the fucking thing, I got three minutes to give it, I fucking stay on up his house, I fucking get out of, I throw it, throw it, I'm taking it all, I got to the fucking 7-11, because I got to fuck 100 free, I should let me get some fucking water, I pull up 7-11, I've got my goddamn mess gone, I go to 7-11, I'm sorry buddy, so I don't, I don't, I got to fuck a coffee and a whole case of fucking pulse queen, I paid already, I walk out, I got to pulse queen, I left in, coffee my right, mess got my face, 100 degrees, I'm running to the truck, I'm saying, I'm gonna get fuck out of that, I know it, I can't even breathe with this fucking mess car, right? I finally made it to the job, I finally made it to the job, I get home last night, I got to pay myself on the, I still, I ran for the whole fucking day, because I still got to, I still got to pay the fucking bill, go home, I call them on the fuckers up, press two, press three, press the two, whose your mother's be named, what were you, we were born, we had to, I had to, I had to, I had to, I had to, I just find a pay off, fucking per-bye, no fucker, I, I can't, nobody on the fucking phone, they do this shit, I'm just right, it's like, red the forer, I start hitting, no, no, no, no, I'm just, I'm just gonna like this, and anything, nine to three, five, seven, nine, five, all's an idiot is gonna help you, I should, Jesus, I, it's out with a text, he just somebody on the fucking phone, I just don't fucking piss like, you, you, fuck, I make me crazy, I can't, this gonna be a bad way, click, I should, wanted to they It's a weird half-body get this motherfucker. You just hung up on me! I'm gonna do it now. I know he's fucking day-filled, better. I know he's fucking day-filled, better. I'm besting is now tonight when I go home. I'm gonna get my bicycle and bicycle to the fucking cheap. I'm fucking covered the yard. What happened to your car in this that in the beginning? Why didn't your car work this? I had a fucking big fix, like fucking six times in this fucking pack of stuff. I mean, time I already fixed the bring-up, down a roll, everything's four and the back of the mirror. She punched my ass in the back of the- I went back, I went back, I took four times, I said, listen brother, you gotta get this shit right. I can't even come back yet, I need my fucking jail bro. All right, I was leaving here five and a more and I'm not too care. And you locked the thing up in the fucking yard, can you get it? Oh, it was locked in the yard, I-I-I-I that's what I missed, okay. Dude, I'm fucking dead, I'm fucking dead, I'm fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking shit. I'm fucking dick, I'm fucking fucking hit my house, I'm fucking hot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot, the fuck, it's hot. But my key is on the fucking je-key. Ah, je-hats! I ended up on a fucking bicycle, sixty fucking one years old! God bless bro. You know, a fucking diagnosed with some incurable disease, you know, I would just call Jimmy up and listen to one of these stories. I wouldn't feel so bad. What was the guy who did that therapy? And I mean, there was a guy who was also, he was like terminally ill and he just surrounded himself with just funny movies and... I can't. What was that? That was a podcast, bro, one, he's the doctor, and that's a single thing. He's sick of himself. He laughed himself. Jimmy did a nursing home, you know? Dude, I want to kill, to see. What Dave said when Dave said, like, Miss Gulch, I could just pitch a Jimmy with that. That's the... That's the thing. That's the thing. We call it... We call it... Matthew Cars, beeping at him and he's looking at him like, what? No one knows what we're talking about. When I was a kid, when I watched the Wizard of Oz, I loved it. And because it was only on once a year, I don't remember what holiday it was on. And when she returned into the witch, I was so scared. No, I hope any part of the scary part was when I was bad things came in through the forest. That was happening. I agree with him, there was something about that witch. You're looking around in your room after watching the... Margaret Hamilton was such a good witch. It was unbelievable. She was great, but the scary part was those flying monster. The monkeys, the flying monkeys. Flying monkeys, the little monkeys. They're all things scared to shit out of it. Picture Jimmy on the bike and a big fucking bus. It's like fucking bus. It's like a monster behind it. Don't put it in the eye, man. I want to see Jimmy dry and his Harley down the yellow brick road. Let's watch Jimmy bench press. Yeah, you got 1,000 feet. Oh, good. Let's see Greg, the shit up these stories I'm telling you because my life... I can't help that what happens to me. It's fucked up off. Dude, I'm the same way. Normal shit fucking doesn't happen to me. Let's just say what I want to do. What do you want? That's good. I thought I think it's a different one. Yeah, it worked. What happened? This says 1070, 1015. That's better. This is it. This is everything. Oh, look. Everybody thought that bar was going to snap. About 1,000 pounds. How about 1015? Oh, my. The weight's didn't add up. Here it goes. We're going to be on the side of the cross. You're going to get that right. You didn't get that right. You didn't get that right. The bar has been. Who are those guys holding a spot in your dear Jimmy? Those are two bikers. How are we looking? There's an airic mosaic. There. That's fucking balls right there. It was it was f***ing what? 15 years later before somebody actually did it. That shirt was like it was like an aspen in she had on. You know, it was like a sh**. I like Jimmy's ass and those spandex. We lost Jimmy. This appeared. Yeah. He looked like Hank. You know, you know, I was spotted him. But I was by myself and on a stage. And I kept saying to please, please, please, please, please, Please, please, please get this on your own. Because if he couldn't get it, I don't know, 6,700 pounds per reverse bench reverse. And he got it on his own. You know, I want to just say something, But you guys out there don't know Jimmy. I know you see these spotters on the side. And it looks like they're lifting it with him. They're not prone. They're not. They're just, they're just there in case something happened. You can't break those questions. I found it. Here it is. Jimmy. No. No. No. I found this Jimmy. Jimmy on the bike. No. You know what the best is? When Miss Goldschis riding it, the house is up in the air. And she's looking out in the hurry. You know, she's in the... That's when it scared me when she turned into a witch. Yeah. Well, you know, but she was up in the air. When she was up in the air. She goes and Miss Goldschis into the witch on the broom. So, you know, she's looking out in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. She's in the hurry. So, so do you remember our English grinder? Yeah, of course. Okay. Of course. I'm doing an exhibition. At how I'm speaking an exhibition. It's hard to be on a microphone. Jimmy to bull. You're going to do it. Why do we have someone's actowing? I don't know why we're actowing. I don't know why we're actowing. I don't know why. Jimmy. I don't know why. Come on. All right. So Jimmy to bulls is going to do his strength exhibition. He got on your shredders on the microphone. No, it's wrong. She doesn't know anything about Jimmy. She's at a living fucking in all of them. So, like, I'd say I take all of her. And just while she's talking, Jimmy and Brax thing, he's warming up. All you hear is stuff smashing. He's got golden metal chairs and throwing them. Smash them as they're for a while. He's got, you know, one third. He's got weights on the bar. He's picking me, throwing them down. Smash it. Growling. And on your shredders, I think she's having fun. Like, 15 hundred. He doesn't know what to do. She's like, I found the microphone. And she's like, you know, panic. Jimmy's warming up. And I, you know, I took the mic. I go, I, you know, I just Jimmy's just warming up, you know. And then the freaking audience went nuts when he came out. John, do you remember what Jimmy would do that? Sometimes his girlfriend Rita would fucking spot him. You remember Rita? Yeah. Well, he said she used to stand him. She used to ruin the show from because she'd still the thunder from him. Right. She told me he told me she stole his anodrolls out of his fucking. He had his top draw. Bro, she would stand or she'd be like him. He should, he should married her. Bro, they were fucking. Bro, he's on a fire image. That's not good. Two, two volatile. Oh, you imagine the arguments between you. Oh, I know it. Well, they ruined that counter-scaster, remember? I thought that was Jimmy by himself. He went out. Oh, that was Jimmy and Rita. They punched holes in the wall. I want to go. Good. Good. Yeah. Good. Rita would fight guys like John and Jimmy. Yeah. Speaking of that, Ed contacted me. I guess the people who bought the gold Jim franchise in Germany, reached out for him. They wanted to involve him in the gold Jim franchise. So he's all excited about it. Thank you smart to do that. Yeah. That's great. That's the both work. They went to involve Ed or Ed. Yeah. They went and involved Ed, Conras. Like, yeah, they should bring a little guy all the guy back. We started from the day one. I think Ed was the brains. I don't know how much Pete Grinkowski and Tim Kimber did over there. I think Ed was doing most of the right. Tim Kimber didn't really do much. I was out there. He wasn't doing much. They were just investors. What did Grinkowski do? Grinkowski's brother was a lot more involved. Yeah. He, Grinkowski was an Ed, and we're like random company. Right. Yeah. He, Grinkowski's brother, Paul. Yeah. He, Grinkowski's brother, Paul. Yeah. I actually bought my gold Jim license from him in Mexico. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was, it's just like the will and normed rubbish. You know what I'm saying? Will rubbish with the norm was the genius behind that. I didn't know that. Yeah. So norm was, yeah. How's James came from the two brothers? Will and norm? No, I know them both. They were great. And norm's not with us anymore. But, um. No, I know norm. I mean, I own the powerhouse. I know norm very well. I will. But will was the fucking monster. Where norm was this way. Same thing Paul and Pete Paul used to take Jews. It was a Jack that one time, but not like Pete. Pete. If you saw Pete on Jews, he was a monster. How many of you went off? You wouldn't even know it's the same guy. I heard some crazy stories that the Grim caskey was taking, like, retarded amounts of drugs. I saw him with my own two eyes. So I'm sitting on a bench in the gym. Sitting before his workout. Sitting on a bench. He took a bottle of Diana ball out of his gym bag. He's like, well, friend, you with the plastic. He took it off. And he goes like, post the cotton out. He goes like this. Yeah. And now. Oh, God. I've heard that stories that get to. But that was real deep. Well, the blue ones, the blue ones. 500. Oh, that was that one again. See you. Right. 500 mil. He has milligrams. But he's both over. I'm going to leave. I'm going back. Yeah, you're back. Oh, cheers. George, fix your camera. All right. I'm going to give you a phone. I think they did. The phone's here for some reason. Is it Jimmy? Did you give it? Did you used to who took more anadroll? You were Pete Grim caskey. What happened? Who took more anadroll for day? You were Pete Grim caskey. Um, I don't know. I used to take up the least three days. I don't know what Pete was taking at that time. I heard you took eight. The rumor is you took 80 days after. No, I didn't think. I think you're looking at the book and liberal. You're good at it. Yeah. I think you're taking four a day a few times. Really? Yeah. I got up the floor. But I didn't stay on the back enough. I get it for the while. I was taking a human gem. You're hunting him. Yeah. Did you get a new shiit on the store? Yeah. You put it on the atonement. That was the Andrea on drugs. Yes. Yeah, you put it on the atonement. It was crazy. What drug made you the strongest, Jimmy? I had a nice combo. I had a spitting. I had a draw out of all. I had a little suspicious. And I was walking for normal man. No, bro, suspension. Oh, my God, dude. You take that. You boners and shit. You know what? I love sten. Get dirty. Drop from Mexico. sten. Yeah. Yeah. And there's something that's right. I'm not living in California. That's just it. I just came out without just that. We got fucking dog. I didn't do the plastic. All right. Yeah. Preload. Preload. Yeah. Preload. I don't know where they have a stupid nose day. So, you know, I took the fucking dead out of the foil. Right. And I just stuck it in my fucking ass. And I was like, oh, he shit. It was like a four new games. You know, it came with it was like a seven gauge needle. You can do it by. I need to get that needle. I know what I would like to do. I put it out. I fucking s skin chicken. I mean, they came with it. Oh, shit. I was like, fuck. I fucking shoot now. I was like, what the fuck? So, my friends is no, me. I was just pulled a punch. You're out of the back and draw it out. Would a regular fucking dog. It's fucking hot moon man. What's wrong with you? I just stuck it in the ass. I fucking feel. I wanted to try to do it. I wanted it. It was like a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I love you. I love those big, you know why? Cause you don't sit there and struggle. It's got. Yeah. What was the cheapest you ever got those those ready jacks for when you were buying volume? Uh, trust it on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We were paying like 10, 10, 12 dollars a day. No, you know, he was buying thousands. How many week? About two or three paying. $2. Maybe. Wow. I was like 25 dollars a piece now in the farm. I was bought. See what people realized when I was a drug dealer. I didn't sell to the kid in the gym. I sold to all the drug dealers. You know what I mean? So I would get volume. Sometimes I would I would get a box and I would never even like, here's the box. I would just hand it all, you know, hand it all to I never even looked in there. You know what I mean? I could tell you stories. Woo. You know, I would never. In Mexico for three bucks. Did that. I used to get him $2. You know what the best was when you were buying a Dominican shit. I would go to Washington Heights and the Dominican pharmacies. I would go with a, you know, with a Dominican bodybuilder, wink, wink. And we were going there. Because he he was Dominican. They all know him. He spoke Spanish. I just went. We're going there. And we will come out with fucking Anna Bullock. Dude, I'm telling you, I paid $2. $2. $5. To $2. For that shit boxes. And that was, you know, and I would even get got a boss from this person. Hey, guys. And I should have done a lot of the shield made of a book and a white metal. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, the old. That's real. It goes really 2.5 milligrams of those pills. Yeah, but it was a fucking thing. I did do it a morning and do it night. I got hard as nails and I'm fucking things man. It was unreal. I was doing it. Well, what was he making strong those anecdotal? I was like, I was strong. I was like, Jimmy. I think I used to do curls with like 3.15. I've done it. Yeah. I've been who was Jimmy was saying the Anna Mar though. He would use 4 Anna for a day. You have a different scissors. That shit was real. It's that they show me these deballs and you're 50 milligrams. I'm like, no, man. I'm up John rugby. Up John rugby. Starris. That was all the fucking good shit man. No, my own. Well, Chris and Cito told me that hitting Bob Grush can we get off the bus. And they at the corner store and they go in the pharmacy and Bob had like a connection there and he would pick up a bag of just like real like Anna Mar and this sauce. Really? Yeah. That's not Charlie. Okay. Well, remember, it's the drug. The drug. You used to drug. The box is it goes Jim at the counter. And he's the drop off five more. Different all the body builders who make their orders and the drug reps, which is deliver. Really? It was a story. Like I knew that Arnold used to talk about. Like it was like every, you know, the best is to talk to Leon Brown. Leon Brown's got to, oh, yeah, every Wednesday, they've been getting a delivery, you know, an in for the UPS guy to do. They don't be waiting outside for the UPS. The funny thing is no one abused the stuff. Everyone was like, oh, yeah, give me one bottle of this. So, I don't know if it's true. We don't know what you're doing because I wasn't there. But, you know, we have to say about the deep ball back those who pills years ago. You think they weren't good and fucking things? You know what? I never took those because I can't. I started thinking, I never took it. I have a lot of friends that took the deep ball. I think what I love. Impolish, metanable, which was deep. Oh my God. That shit was fucking. That was deep ball. Like no other deep ball you could imagine. You know, and I did like the Russian deep balls and the Russian substance. I got used to get those, you know, the mnemodied. They were the thousand in a bottle. Yeah, original ones that came over were very good. The original ones. But then after that, they like, I think they were trunk pills. They saved them, yeah, they saved them. Yeah. You bet metanable. They were coming in orange strip like that. Yeah, I remember. Oh my God. How about check drops? Remember those? Those who wanted, what's the name used to sell up? Check drops with a strength. I'm sure Jimmy probably tried them once or twice. Already did. Great. Let's see. Rod. Rodney Woodlearn. Remember to tie on UK stays to you. Oh, God. Oh, I think I could read that. I'll just do it. I'll take it. Because I'm pretty well with it with the solid thing. So I'm gamey above of check drops. And I had a sitting in my drawer for probably two, three years. So I'm going to try it if it jim. Because it's supposed to make you super, super strong. They would give it to dogs to keep female dogs to keep man ahead or something like that. And I took, I didn't have a dropper. So I took like a spoon and I poured some in a spoon and I put it onto my tongue. Big mistake. I took probably a hundred times the dose you should. I had ingestion for fucking three days. So bad. I felt so nauseously sick from it. But in the gym, I was, I was so strong. I felt like super man. I was, I was afraid I was going to tear something. I didn't even want to work out. That's, that's how strong there was. I heard a story that you, you got to tell him if it's true. I heard because I used to sell the PTF, you know, I was supposed to go in and lose. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it was Gary had told me. And a little guy. You know, I'm talking about. Yeah. My friend. Yeah. I mean, he said that you took, you tried the little lady and you tried too much. And you had to go to the hospital because the cramping down there was a no no no no. I, I was the first person to get lootaways before anyone did. And why sold it? I think you got it from our guy because we got, I had an in bricks. I would never take that. I think I got it before you because I actually had a script. My doctor friend wrote a script for her. I feel the, but I experimented with the first and it was a 30 C C bottle of your memory. It was, it was a, it was a prostic landing. It was supposed to cause localized muscle growth. He had to right. What it basically did was you took the shot and you had the and you got the flow for two hours. You wanted to shit. You wanted to throw up. You, you felt no ashes. You got a fever. Every sign effect of the flu. You got accept muscle and you got no muscle growth from it. So I, I couldn't get through, I, I probably did 20 days in a row. But I said, this is ridiculous. I feel like shit. It's not working. And it was all because someone wrote this internet article about it theoretically. It should have caused a low flight muscle growth and yeah, all the, all these, you know, crazy things. So I never even got through the first 30 C Cs. And then I sort of, everyone was using it. I'm like, these guys are fucking nuts. I said, anyone uses this crazy. And I don't think anyone used it like longer than one bottle because no one can take it. Who the fuck wants to feel like they have the flow over time? I showed it to drug dealers. And they, they would come back and tell me, do everybody's taking a shit. They can't, because you're supposed to take like a quarter of like a C C. It's like the craziest amount. Right. And there is no. The minute you take more than that, because it's an abortion medicine. It's, it's for abortion for cattle and you're cramping and everybody couldn't get off the toilet. It's like you're going into labor. That's really, that's what we never, never take a low can six. You should have been taking it. That's going to be the new big thing. That's the new, it's the new big thing into the low can six. No, I don't fuck with any of that shit. That's just a thing. I used to sell it. But I heard such horror stories about it. I never tried it. Because you know, I don't have a lot of money. You'll tell anyone. Remember to help me. Remember to tell me. Remember to help the people who are in the hospital. Remember that? That was before my time, even. Oh my, that's fucking like early mid 80s, maybe. Yeah. Remember the fire, Mue case Ampules. They were like this big that they've glass Ampules, they wouldn't have procured A cream, they called it? Accured a cream. Yeah. Yeah. It has a positive story. So, topical fun. Remember this deposit was the waste? The chemical, the chemical. The chemical deposit, the chemical and pill. Stigmatized, you're not going to do all three together. Yeah. I know that is still working with the with the depositories we're doing. That's stupid. I think that's who's black men consult them. I think that's what I think. That was what I did. Yeah. Hey, listen. All the rubs. I met the American Olympic coach for Wayne Liffing that before they they put our guy on drugs. All I mean, in the Olympics, the only rushes were beating with the string us. And when I happened to this in the Olympics, he actually worked for Jacqueline as I met him because it's sort of the one on one and he told me the story that they were all out drinking together at the rushes beat only and beat everyone. Question that's when the guy Alexia did 500 pounds over his head. That's silly. Yeah, and when the rushes that when the rushes, coach got told, we told our American guy, hey, we're doing all this stuff. We're doing a Diana bullet, told all the stuff that we're doing. They weren't through the animal. They didn't have Diana bullet. We invented Diana bullet to combat the will of testosterone. They were never they had testosterone. They were they were doing it. We take it several. But it wasn't illegal. That's the whole thing. They just had found. Right. So then John did then see about right. Then they create the animal. Yeah, 1959. The Germans. Yeah. We did. We did it. We did it in 1995. The Germans invented Diana. They did it. Because they because they lost the what's his name? The track star. Jesse Johnson or whatever his name is. Jesse. Jesse. Jesse. Jesse. Oh, but yeah, because when we're Jesse Owens ran and he bit the fucking hitler. And he said, he's in the lead that shit. And after that, Remember to eat German chicks too. They were jy eyes. I thought they were using a testosterone. And then in 1959 they invented Diana bullet in the United States. That's that's the timeline I have. I remember hearing that. De